ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e43	Let me first say that the job that the Government v/State Council has done in relation to the working floor tunnel, I hope that others who have been in a similar situation before, can learn from, in case they ever get back in position. But we're going to try to avoid them doing that, so they don't have to do that problem. That's how one should handle such matters, and I'm therefore pleased that we are there today. So I would say that this case illustrates something that would have become the problem for the Progress Party if it had not been tolls. This proposition contains an extremely large number of road construction projects that depend on tolls. If the Advance Party had controlled this country, they would not have been able, even after the petroleum code, to build as many roads as we can build. Then a built as many roads as one today builds iron tracks, and as I said, it's too little. It also sees one of these things. It's a lot of way, but very little focus on the railway. After all, this government has also lifted the loops enormously to an offensive stake on the railway, not least in the area I come from, North-Jearen, where a now builds double tracks, and where one also makes for double tracks – at least in view of what the railway station has said – to a combined railway that is planned there. We also see that Rogaland counties, Stavanger municipalities and others are now actively spending money, set of money, on that urban track, that is, they are facilitating the construction of the city track, but they still have a long way to go when it comes to funding this project. It is not only useful to call on the state when projects as large as this are to be built. This is where the main challenge for the right-wing party is today, when they do not want to participate in a formulation set against the Stockholm trial, in order to get a real bet on, for example. urban railway solutions on the north of Jären, or other solutions related to public transport in the cities. We all know here that the Stockholm test is successful. We know that they spent billions of dollars to facilitate public transport. We know that nothing happened to the number of those who took the bus, the train, the city track and the tram before a charge was imposed. And then every four cars disappeared on the road, almost 25 pst. of passenger car traffic disappeared. That's when I'm surprised that people who normally have a good and rational logical way of thinking are still calling for one not to have things like this. After having tried this for seven to eight months, a majority of the Stockholm population say by referendum that this is what they want. Most people in Stockholm would like to have a running-time charge when they see that it is possible to travel collectively, when they see that it is actually possible to do something about the climate problem, about traffic pollution, air pollution and noise pollution through such a measure. Nevertheless, the structure of the Right and the Progress Party is several ways. In the cities, too, is the answer. But it's a huge project, and it's impossible to achieve. It realizes the NHO, it realizes truck owners. Several and more groups realise that one has to do with experiments similar to the Stockholm project. That's where the challenge lies, that's where we can actually do something together, and that's where we now signal from the pluralist parties, and from former colleagues to the Right – the Christian People's Party and the Left – that this is a good idea to look closer to. So that's the aspect that the Right comes up with, that it's socially unfair. When has Right been occupied with it? It's just more about the rich people who are the hallmark of the Right Party in Norway, including the Hellenic Party, Right, and then suddenly it becomes an argument for going against a good project that actually turns out to be working. It's totally unimaginable. In fact, there are rich people who pay the most in Stockholm and who pay the most in London. That's not the way Right is flattering. In the end, I'm glad that there's still some formulations to connect with Tauferja, but I also think that one should look at whether to build as large ferries as the previous one, or whether to see if there are other solutions and better ones. But it's like saying things the government looks closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e60	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e63	It is a pleasure to hear the SV representative Langeland boasting of road construction, toll projects, bridges and tunnels. There was no daily food in the previous period, nor the development of important fields on the base, which we will join a little later today, where he will also vote for. But this was the case with road pricing and the Stockholm trial. I must remind Langeland that the Stockholm trial is not just a success. Among other things, it was discovered that 500 people were required to sit and read video images at all passes. So there was a very expensive collection cost for that experiment. I don't think we should worry about those who have to pay for this. For a normal family with 250 days of work travel per year, there will be NOK 20 000. Doesn't that bother Langeland at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e70	Let me start by saying that I pointed out in my post that if it wasn't for this government's willingness to be on different ground layers when it comes to road projects, they wouldn't have gotten anything off. What's the main point for me is that we have to make a little difference between town and country. In the districts we need, of course, we need proper roads, we need racial protection, we need different projects. It's in the cities I focus on this with rush time. I thought Right is doing itself a bear service by problematizing around the Stockholm trial. Of course, there are things that can be improved, just as there are things that can be improved in that attempt a drive with in London. My point is that people will have less noise, people will have less pollution, people will have better collective provision, and that's the package we're making, which is consistent with what's now also become Right's climate policy, and which will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and create greater prosperity in cities. It should also be in the right-hand side's interest. So Halleraker should actually listen more to Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e79	It's very interesting to listen to the representative Langeland. I hope that the answer he gave to the previous line implies that the SV and the Progress Party can now stand together to say no to the toll project in the districts, because that is how I interpret Langeland, and that at least the State will finance that type of infrastructure. My challenge to Langeland concerns this with the ‘most people’ in Stockholm — most people in a referendum have said yes to all of this. Now there were a number of municipalities around Stockholm – and in Stockholm – who had a referendum, so my simple question to Langeland is: Was it a majority or minority in these referendums for a rush-time charge in Stockholm?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e86	I thought it was very funny that the leader of the Transport and Communications Committee thought it was interesting to listen to Langeland, so I hope he will continue to do so, because it is enough to learn from SV's transport policy. When it comes to the state and responsibility in the district, it should in principle be the state that built the roads everywhere, but that's how there's no money for it. It's just the petroleum code of the Advance Party – not the FrP code, but the petroleum code – that makes the Advance Party have money for everything they think most people want. But ‘most people’ may sometimes be ‘most men’. It has never really had anything with people most to do what the Progress Party stands for. The last question asked by the representative concerned the municipalities around Stockholm. And that's quite right – I give Per Sandberg, the leader of the transport committee, quite right in that if one takes all the municipalities around, not all were happy – there was a negative plurality there. But in the inner core, among those who really get the frame, and who notice this, there were multiples, and there people live most.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e95	The representative of Langeland has spent a lot of time today on the Stockholm trial. But at the local level in Oslo and Akershus, SV has been in favour of Oslopackak 3, and one of the most zealous speakers there who has been the head of the Akershus Society Committee is SV's Erlend Helle. What happens when this package comes to Stortinget? Will the representative of Langeland support Oslopackak 3, or will he continue to support road pricing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e100	Some people may think that with my international sympathy, and then in certain directions, I don't belong to local democracy. But I do. So when Oslopackak 3 comes here, it is clear that I support the local initiative and therefore do not get the Stockholm solution I think should be in Oslo. That's exactly why I focus on my own neighbourhood, Sandnes, Stavanger and Nord-Jären, by building double tracks with this government, by having a project there when it comes to the city track, which one local needs to be better able to focus on how one should finance. It is good that the Left is also involved when it comes to the Stockholm trial, because there is an area in which I believe this can work. Oslo - that's fine, the local rules are there. In other areas we have to work for them to get the Stockholm test.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e107	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e110	The case rapporteur has done a great deal of good for the main content of the setting, so I'm just going to comment on some important points for the Christian People's Party. Kristiansand Municipality and West Agder County Council are in the process of extending the current toll scheme to finance actions forming part of a continuous walking and cycling network in Kristiansand. That's what the Christian People's Party thinks is great. It's so important to make sure that people can go and ride to work and to school. It's good for health, it's good for the environment, and it's good for road safety. But I cannot fail to take this opportunity to comment on the position of the Progress Party on road traffic safety, and I use this case to do so. The progress party is very busy and eager for a safe road network, and therefore also for pedestrian and cyclist routes. So there are questions about extending the bombing in Kristiansand in order to increase the safety of cycling and walking along heavily trafficked roads. It is local will to take this promise, but the Advance Party will have asked for such a scheme. They refer to regular budget lines that the representative Sandberg is fully aware of does not contain these funds today. These are, in my opinion, mildly misleading signals to the population and an attitude towards road safety that I find difficult to understand. My challenge to the Progress Party is: Why is one not sometimes willing to compromise and participate in good solutions in the name of road safety? In the proposal, the Ministry explains the circumstances surrounding the rampage in the Hanekleiv tunnel and for tunnel safety in general. The confidence in the safety of Norwegian tunnels has been greatly weakened. People's confidence in the State Road Service is also greatly weakened. People now feel insecure when they run into a Norwegian tunnel, and it's very unfortunate. We have an incredible number of them. It is quite amazing, not to say shocking, that the responsibility for what has happened is still not placed. The road manager, who has now left, could only say that he did not know who was responsible. It is now important that the proposals and recommendations made by the study group be followed up and that the necessary measures be taken by the Government. We also expect a separate case to come to Stortinget about the safety of our road tunnels. Finally, the Christian People's Party is in favour of the establishment of independent roadside supervision. We do not see the need for new investigations to clarify the need for roadside inspections. We arranged our own open hearings, where all the bodies that met were very clear that we needed roadside surveillance. Recent events only underline that the time is now ripe for such supervision. Of course, we support a sample to identify and make recommendations on responsibilities, mandates and organisation for such supervision, and we ask that the matter be given the highest priority in the ministry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e132	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e135	There is a great deal of agreement between the government party and the Christian People's Party in this setting. There is one point where the former government parties, in conjunction with the Progress Party, claim that the conversion that took place in the State Road Administration took Mesta and separated her out as a private entrepreneur company and let her in under the Ministry of Economic Affairs, gave a savings of nearly DKK 1 billion, which could be used for the road. I'm actually wondering how the Christian People's Party has intended to document it. My impression is, in fact, that road maintenance has become much worse. We have raised the 2007 road maintenance budget by 500 million. kr. Nevertheless, there are large resources to manage this offer and not least to check that the service contracts are being followed. Is the representative Sahl not in agreement with me that this might be the winner of the spin, and that it's a little daring to say that one of these has turned in $1 billion?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e142	It's a simplified calculation presented by the representative Rudihagen. It is not possible to link road maintenance to what was clearly confirmed by the previous government in propositions to the Stortinget, which was not contradicted, that we save in the order of 800 million. NOK 1 billion and NOK 1 billion on that conversion into the state road system. Then there's a priority question about how to use that money, about using it for investment, or about using it to boost maintenance. This money has been put into production and has come to the benefit of the government that is now the representative of Rudihagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e149	Sometimes it is important not to throw a stone when sitting in a glass house. The representative of Sahl should think carefully about that. Bondevik I and Bondevik II were the two governments that introduced a change of course to finance infrastructure in Norway. Since Bondevik I and Bondevik II ruled for as long as they did, the state has been running away from its financial responsibility for the infrastructure. I think the representative of Sahl should be a little careful about criticising the Progress Party when we point to the realities of financing municipal infrastructure, because it lies in the transfers to the primary municipality and county municipality. Last year, the municipalities paid NOK 12 billion in profit and the county councils with NOK 2 billion in profit. Then it should be in place to comment and place the responsibility where it belongs. Those who drive on the E18 in Kristiansand will not benefit from the bicycle and pedestrian path that Kristiansand Municipality will build in its own transport system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e158	I understand that the representative Sandberg felt that I was throwing stones in my post. That wasn't the starting point at all. My starting point was to hand out a hand to the Progress Party, which is looking for partners in the upcoming rollout. It surprises me that the Advance Party is so concerned with self-marking that one is not willing in one case to compromise with some other parties, especially in the case of roads. It was my starting point to try to stretch out a hand in a matter as important as this, namely road safety in Kristiansand, where there is a great deal of consensus in the local population that they want this. It's the Progress Party against smoking. Why not in any situation be involved in stretching out a hand and joining the majority?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e165	The more I listen to the representative Sahl from the Christian People's Party, the more convinced I am that the Christian People's Party will be the big challenge in getting a cooperative constellation in 2009. There is no hand the Christian People's Party reaches out. The Christian People's Party and the representative of Sahl here are criticizing the Progress Party for not being as evasive and irresponsible as the Christian People's Party is in the transport system. We are the only party that relates to Norwegian law, among others. Section 20 of the Road Act, while the Christian People's Party, which is to reach out here and there, is not a good deal to deal with Norwegian law and Norwegian rules when it comes to financing our infrastructure. It is the State that is to finance state infrastructure, and it is the municipalities that are to finance municipal infrastructure. These include: therefore it has been incorporated into the framework of the municipalities and counties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e170	Let me tell the representative Sandberg that I understand that he did not perceive what I said, as an outstretched hand. On a case-by-case basis, the Progress Party gives people the impression that they say no tolls, because the amounts are there, they are in the budget. But what does it mean when you're not willing to compromise? As far as I know, the Progress Party does not have a majority on the Stortinget and will probably not get a clean majority after the election. In politics, there is a question of making compromises to achieve results, and that was my challenge to the Progress Party on such an important issue as safety for children and young people in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e175	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e178	There's been a lot of talk about tunnels this past six months. Nevertheless, it is permissible to hope that we politicians do not have developed tunnel vision. At the same time, in the course of the debates, one might suspect us that we are staying in each of our separate tunnels. - Enough about that. After the fall in the Hanekleiv tunnel, the question of a stand-alone roadside supervision has been seen on the agenda again. The pragmatic question is whether such supervision to a greater extent than with the current system will actually lead to increased security. This is one of the things. a question about how we use resources and available competences. If you were to move money from operating and maintaining roads to more bureaucracy, you don't necessarily achieve the goal of more safety on the roads. Therefore, the majority in the Committee are satisfied that the Government believes that there is a need for a thorough distribution of such a self-regulatory body, if any, responsible for the supervision of road safety. An important part of this arrangement will be to assess a preliminary division of responsibilities between the State Road Service, the Ministry and other departments and such supervision. The opposition wants this release to be completed faster than the Government has proposed, and claims that this is required for security. It is important to clarify that the world before Hanekleiv-saka and the world afterwards did not go from heaven to hell along the roads and in our tunnels. If a roadside inspection is to be created first, I would like to stress that it makes sense to assess this properly, and doing things properly takes some time. Haste works are trucking, there's something called, and when one thinks that haste causes reduced road safety, it's strange to demand that a person should be in a hurry to set up roadside supervision. The medieval crusades were made against distant lands. The party of progress is obviously well pleased to be able to stay within the country's borders when they have found the target of their cruises, i.e. the toll stations. As there is a short way to go, the crusade becomes the denser, and in almost every case where the word ‘bompengar’ is called, the lot mobilizes strongly. If it seems much different than prolonging the meeting, it's unclear, but at least it creates a heated change of words. I'm willing to admit that the Central Party is united in part of the criticism of the Toll Schemes, because we believe in principle that the State should cover a maximum amount of road investment. Therefore, we also increase the transport budget by DKK 2.5 billion in relation to the Progress Party and adopted. This government is making a real contribution to transport, and it would be especially important if we did not additionally support local initiatives, where municipalities and counties see that communities and businesses are tending to have projects carried out faster with tolls. That's why we also think it's very positive when this merger proposition clears that a new bridge over Nidelva can be completed and that one can finance walking and cycling road measures in Kristiansand.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e195	St. pp. No 68, which was provided at the same time as the revised national budget, contains a number of important issues of sport. In the revised national budget, the Government proposes an increase in the proceeds of a total of 462 million. kr. The biggest increase is due to the consequences of the fall in the Hanekleiv tunnel. This means that the cost of the race will not go beyond other road projects, as opposed to what has happened before. The representative of Greece did not appear to have received this in his reference to the forthcoming budget. The permissions of the railway are included. to improve track capacity, which is important for rail freight. The proposed concessions to walking and cycling roads, public transport access schemes and the licensing of public transport in the districts are important in the Government's commitment to public transport throughout the country. I want to be the first to underline the unfortunate consequences of the crash in the Hanekleiv tunnel of the Rome Christmas. The details I don't see any reason to go into now, as I have, over the winter and spring, briefed the Stortinget an innumerable number of times, whether from progress in the repair work in the operating tunnel, to measures for the current rerun routes, measures to promote public transport in the area, and the question of economic compensation to businessmen along the side of the road. These are important questions, but for me, it is central to preventing such an event from happening once again. In relation to the last time that a corresponding breed went into a Norwegian road tunnel, in the Oslofjord tunnel, I have therefore seen much more extensive research and work going on, both internally in the State Road Service and through external assistance. In the proposition, I am also clear that I would like to start further work if necessary. Last night I received the last document in this context. I then received the recommendation from a working group with representatives from the Consulting Engineers' Association, the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs, the Entrepreneur's Association of Construction and Construction and the State Road Administration, as well as a report from the Internal Audit Office of the State Road Administration. Of course, these documents make sure that they're available to the public. As most people have recorded, as a preliminary assessment, I have found that the report from the internal audit is not sufficient for me to be able to give a thorough briefing on the responsibilities associated with the accident in the Hanekleiv tunnel. I would therefore now like to give an external environment the task of examining the management and responsibility of the whole organisation of the State Road Administration in this matter. In line with sound management practice, the Road Director has asked for leave at the time of such examination. There can be no doubt that the public’s confidence in the Road Service has been affected, and not in a positive direction. My most important task now is to make sure that the conditions are set up as well as possible so that this trust can be built up again. In the proposition, one presented the assessments made so far for reasons of the race, and possible measures to prevent similar events in the future. These are actions at many different levels, ranging from concrete routine changes related to tunneling to extensive organisational changes. Several of the measures, including: independent quality advisory groups and the provision of independent roadside supervision will also have effects outside the tunnels. Together with the more tunnel-specific measures, I believe this will help to restore confidence in the Road Service. I note that the Committee, at least in the majority, seems to share my assessment of the need for action. The majority also seemed to be satisfied with the proposals I have made. As I have emphasised, both in the proposal and in the letter of 5 June 2007 to the Committee on Transport and Communications of the European Parliament, as a written answer to questions, I will follow the matter carefully also in view of possible proposals for the Storting in addition to the information already promised in the draft budget for 2008. When it comes to the issue of roadside supervision, I record that the majority supports a process as proposed by the Government. It is a comprehensive issue, which could have a significant impact on the way responsibilities and consultation are distributed across the sector, and is thus followed by thorough assessments. Both the majority and the minority in the Committee have pointed out that the quality of winter operations is not satisfactory. This is also confirmed by user reviews done by the Swedish Road Administration. When I was aware of the problem, I took it up in the 2007 state roadway code. This is also followed up in an own letter to the Road Directorate of 6 March this year. I find it strange on this background when the minority in the committee comes with characteristics like disclaimer. I can assure you that we are very concerned about improving the quality and preparedness of winter operations, and that in this context we assess all the conditions. The road authority of the State has prioritised the follow-up of the contractor and also the design of the contract, in order to ensure the best possible quality. The state road system will also look at how the network, together with entrepreneurs, can improve the management of crises and exceptional road conditions. I can see that time is not going to go by, and I'm drawing a 3 minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e225	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e229	We had a hearing in the committee in connection with the pooling proposition. There was the Landsförenings Landsförening in BNL-Bøgäur, represented by Audun Lågøyr. He brought with him director Davik in Mesta. They were concerned that in November a mandate was given to a working group to cooperate with the construction industry and the Road Administration on functional and winter maintenance. The mandate was given in November. After that, the construction industry did not hear anything. They sent a letter in March and did not get a response to it either. We had a hearing at the end of May. The proposal states that the sample should present its work on 1 July. Is contact now established between the BNL and the State Road Administration? Does the Council of State consider it satisfactory that an actor who is invited to participate in such work does not hear anything before the deadline expires?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e236	The deadline is as mentioned. I expect the work to be submitted as ordered, and I expect one to have the necessary contacts, so that one can do a thorough job. I am sorry if someone has been excluded from that contact. I am not aware of this, but of course I will check if this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e241	I want to follow up on what the representative of Greece said, about what goes on functional contracts. It also appeared in the consultation, and others have probably also been involved in it, the challenge in relation to the size of functional contracts. It was said that it might have been useful to break down the functional contracts, so that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs could have a greater ownership relationship with this type of functional contract. It might provide better skills, more certainty, and not least we could exploit the available capacity of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Could it be that at some point the Council of State and the Government will consider whether small and medium-sized entrepreneurs may also be main contractors?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e248	There are certainly advantages associated with having small and medium-sized entrepreneurs into the main contract. The dilemma is, of course, that there are many to follow up on. We'll have to wait for what's in the report where a review of the functional contracts. For my part, I have in several contexts, both in terms of operations and maintenance, and, to a large extent, also on the investment side of smaller projects, in terms of the ability of small and medium-sized enterprises to compete. I have not discussed the question directly in connection with functional contracts on that basis, but I am open to such an assessment. I thought it might make sense, but I also have to listen to any counter-representations. So I'd like to take this input further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e255	As I said in my post, I am pleased with what is stated in the proposal to investigate a roadside inspection. But as I also said in my post, I do not see the need for it to take so long. A public body will be set up to look at the need, and only in a year's time will we move on to the matter. The need is there. There are several people who point out, as I also said in my post. Could it not also be used this year here to look at the mandate and area of authority for independent roadside supervision?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e260	I have previously answered that question here in Stortinget. Any roadside supervision will change responsibilities when it comes to supervision, maintenance and investment needs, significantly compared to what we know today. How the lines between possible roadside surveillance and others responsible for the road sector are to be drawn up is not a simple and easy question to consider. In addition, of course, there are other organisational and economic aspects that I believe may be much easier to adhere to, but in particular the limitations, discussion and weight of responsibilities are important because the road sector is so large – we have over 90,000 km of road. There will be a completely different dimension of roadside supervision than we know today. So we need a thorough evaluation and distribution, and we need to take that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e265	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e268	The turf in the Hanekleiv tunnel at E18 in Westfold has been widely reported in terms of the pooling position. We have lived in the belief that in this country we have the best expertise in tunnel construction, and therefore the strong reaction is that such a race could happen, and also on what the review reports have revealed in retrospect. Fortunately, there was no harm, but we can't in any way accept that we have racially dangerous tunnels. We need to do what we can to keep road users safe here. The securing work carried out in the Hanekleiv tunnel turns out to be outrageously foolish. When the inspection revealed that the Løken tunnel, the Bolstad tunnel and four other tunnels need additional security, this becomes even more serious. The first review report clearly states that the cause of the fall in the Hanekleiv tunnel is an under-estimation of the need for securing in this difficult mountain. Why it was underestimated, the report does not give a final answer, but a reference to a number of factors that are highly critical and may be involved: poor organisation, unclear role-sharing, unclear responsibilities, lack of engineering competence, etc. In any case, it was the State Road Service that was responsible, and that had to put up with real criticism for the way these projects were handled. This must also have consequences for the way the Road Service manages and organizes its projects. We have to make people safe that so bad work is not done in the future. Now we also know the content of the said internal report, and he has, as the Council of State had in mind, such a significant lack that the Government proposes further examination of the external company. Of course, such an examination needs to ask questions about and hopefully find answers as to why it was not reported to the County Road Office and the Road Directorate during the work, and who is responsible for this. It is natural that the road manager was given leave when this review is carried out. It doesn't exactly rebuild the trust of the Road Service what's come out, and there can't be any doubt that this has to change and improve. In the debate in the wake of these events, questions have been asked about the need for economics on the projects and the focus on rapid progress has been the cause of slurring in the work. It has been rejected by the road director, but I believe it is in any case reason to clarify from Stortinget’s speech seat – if anyone is in doubt – that the desire for rapid progress and reasonable cost must never be accompanied by security. I would like to commend the Minister of Transport and the Government for the way in which this situation has been dealt with: measures to improve tunnels as quickly as possible, measures in relation to re-routing roads, better information on collective provision and an additional commitment in the revised 345.2 million. kr, which, in addition to repair work in the tunnels, goes to measures on the bypasses and other additional costs incurred by the Road Service. Toll companies also receive cover for lost income. In addition, an investigation team was quickly set up to find the reason and propose improvement measures. The proposal refers to eight concrete proposals for improvements. In addition, a report has been submitted from a selection of the parties and, as we have done, an internal report from the Road Administration. All tunnels have also been inspected. I find it hard to see how the Government could have handled this differently, or in a better way. It is worth noting that when a similar breed passed through Oslofjorden in 2003, the current state councillor Torild Skogsholm took no active role in investigating the racial hazard in other tunnels, not entering the nearest areas with similar geological conditions to the Hanekleiv tunnel. The decision now is that all tunnels will be controlled, that the tunnels will be put in a safe and good condition, and that completely necessary organisational changes will be made to the Road Service. At the NRK today early it was claimed that the Vegvesen did not have sufficient competence in tunnel work and tunnel inspection. If that's right, at least external expertise has to be used, so we can be sure that we're on the safe side. I'm aware that the challenge is the lack of engineer geologists. Finally, in the case of tunnel inspections, there is reason to note that the department writes that a road tunnel may be up to six or seven times more expensive to keep by just than one road in the day. This I must admit worries me. We have 952 tunnels on the national and county road network, and we have a lot going on. When we travel with the committee, we are also presented for the desire for long tunnels under fjords and through mountains. My concern is that in our maintenance budget we are getting very tied up in tunnel operation. It will be a big challenge to increase the maintenance budget enough to do both this and a good maintenance on a behalf that calls for more money. Of course, we have to build tunnels with our topography and geography, but where there can be good alternatives by road today, we should be critical of tunnel construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e291	In this setting, you can see a note about the Sotra connection along with the Progress Party and the Left. This is perhaps the place in Norway where we have the fastest growing traffic development, and the need for a new bridge connection is very urgent. And it's fast. In 1973 there was a ferry in this connection. Today, there are up to 25 000 vehicles per day and traffic is increasing. So there's a need for a quick clearance and a capacity expansion. The KS1 process must therefore be parallel to other planning. The Minister of Transport is familiar with this issue, and there are many, many thousand people in the region west of Bergen who put their trust in clearing up the uncertainty that the Directorate of Roads has created against advice from their own regional chief. In this aggregate proposition, AutoPASS has also been given relatively wide space. AutoPASS is a success story, and AutoPASS is used on many road projects across the country. It is an important objective of the Right to extend the scope of AutoPASS in order to make it even easier for road users and users. In that case, we believe that we should make this available for the country's car travel and, in the next round, perhaps also for example. parking facilities. Here, there's a need for a little bit more speed. We know that the Council of State in the budget for the current year withdrew the trial scheme with free passengers on the ferries, which is necessary for the introduction of AutoPASS. The NORITS project and the CECARE project in the Nordic and European context are a further development of the Norwegian AutoPASS — Coordinated payment. These are projects that improve interoperability in the Nordic countries and Europe, where Norwegian competence and technology are in first division. So here you have a great opportunity to be involved in the development. The state road service has tough days for the time being, but in this field there really is reason to give the establishment recognition. Here you've done a brilliant job and you're still doing it. But AutoPASS does not have to be a sleep cushion in our efforts to keep collection costs, and especially financial costs, down. Financial costs are the main parameter for user-funded projects. For the Right, the road users are the most important, and therefore we have to look with light and light for all the improvements here. The summary proposal also describes the Svinesund project. It has large operating costs, and in this case we are invited to change an inappropriate arrangement for road users on Svinesund. Another aspect I can mention is that the project has a considerably higher interest rate cost than any other toll project, which has a different type of guarantee and funding. Here it is the State that imposes an interest rate that is not even subject to competition. This indicates that the state is not good at operating a toll company. The right is concerned with local control of toll projects and will appeal to the Council of State to maintain that local governance is often the best – so here too.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e304	In the last two years, I've traveled a lot around our country. I have visited a number of companies, and I do not believe that I am lying when I say that I have not been to a single company but that transport has been on the agenda. These company visits have told me how important good communications are to our business. I've previously said from this chair how crucial it is for industry's competitiveness, value creation and employment that we have a well-developed and efficient transport network. We also know that the main gravity of the population and business is located along the coast. That's also where most of the value creation happens. In the government statement, we have a goal of moving as much goods as possible from road to sea and track. Here we are doing well in relation to several important transport corridors. In this context, I would like to mention both the Bergensbana and the Nordlandsbana, which both transport a substantial part of the goods from the many district jobs in both of these parts of the country. Maritime transport and ports are also an important part of transport policy. Knute point ports where both track and road meet the sea are becoming an increasingly important part of our infrastructure. Nevertheless, with the geography that we have in this long-range country, the road will for all time be an important and absolutely necessary transport year. Therefore, good and safe roads are crucial for the competitiveness of business, deciding that the goods will enter the market, and deciding for people to come safely to and from. It is therefore gratifying that the Government also has several road projects in the pool that will make the communications even better. I'm not going to name everyone, but I want to enter some. With regard to the extension of the toll collection on the E6 Trondheim–Stjørdal section in order to co-finance the construction of new Nidelv bridge, all parties in the Committee outside the Progress Party are very pleased that a funding solution has been found here to enable the construction of this important road project to start two years before it is within the action programme. The same plurality will praise the two municipalities and Stjørdal, Malvik and Trondheim municipalities for their initiative and participation in funding. It's just this creativity that makes it possible to get the bridge in place two years earlier than planned. Another important issue for which it is open is the extension of existing toll systems in Kristiansand to finance the construction of a coherent walking and cycling network in Kristiansand. The pedestrian and bicycle road network is an important leak in Kristiansand's transport system, so this will be a major and important step forward for the city. Another creative solution to get started earlier than planned with important projects can be refinement. Møre and Romsdal and the South-Trøndelag counties have merged and accelerated the recovery of existing road E39 on the route Renndalen–Staurset bridge in Møre and Romsdal and South-Trøndelag. Once again, it gives the same majority in the Committee its support for a positive initiative. In the end, I will praise the Government for its power of action. It shall apply, inter alia, to: the Atlantic Tunnel in More and Romesdal and the clarification of the decision on the allocation of savings, if any. The clarification confirms that the More and Romesdal counties and the municipalities of Kristiansund, Frei and Averøy have all the time assumed that any savings should be distributed equally between the road users and the municipalities – an important matter of great local commitment. The difference between the Bondevik II Government and the Progress Party as a supporting party and the Stoltenberg II Government is that this Government is fulfilling the commitments also in its national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e323	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e327	Most of it has been said about the pooling proposition, but I want to draw attention to Cape. 4.1 Negotiations between the Ministry of Transport and the Hurtigruten Group ASA. It is important to note what the Committee has said, which refers to the introduction of the net pay scheme as part of improving the competitive situation of Hurtigruta, and that we are very pleased with this measure. We note that the parties agree to carry out measurements in order to comply with the requirements of the NOx charge imposed on shipping, and that one will return to the result of the harvest. But that means that one of the negotiations that will take place must not weaken the competitiveness of Hurtigruta. This government introduced the net pay scheme in order to improve the competitive situation for Norway’s brand. Good solutions must then be looked at in the forthcoming negotiations, so that they are not returned to the starting point before the introduction of the net pay scheme. Then it may be in place to finally quote something from the new CEO, Olav Fjell, to NTB on 13 June 2007. He says, among other things: att ‘it becomes important to reconcile the societal expectations of the fast-track operation with the public appropriations for the operation. Less liability or more money’. It's actually the whole essence. And on the other hand, ‘Even fast running costs more than it generates in revenues. In order to maintain the route offer, the authorities contribute financially. In the process of creating a healthy economic foundation for the Hurtigruten, it is important to reconcile the expectations both ways," says Olav Fjell to NTB. – This means, in clear terms, increasing public efforts, or reducing public expectations?– Yes. The most important work to realise the potential of the brand name and get a healthy economic foundation must be done within the Hurtigruten, but it will also be important to reconcile public expectations, says Fjell.’ Then I want to say that it was the constellation of the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party together with the Advance Party that would still have the Hurtigruta in its state, and with the sailing pattern it had. It wouldn't be the Bondevik II government. Then it also becomes very important when purchasing the services you want, to have the Quick route as the brand it is today, even in a future choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e354	I would like to begin by thanking the Transport Committee for having overtime thrown around and treated the county municipal advance of a temporary train station at Sandefjord Airport Torp. The Westfold county council decided as late as 14 May to grant 7 million. to cover the costs of the organisation of the old Råstad station on the Vestfoldbahnen. Thus, the Railway Station can now start work in the autumn so that the station is ready for use in 2008. The accommodation service to Sandefjord Airport, which is actually one of the most busy airports in the country, has been a problem. Today the main gravity of the traffic goes to and from the airport by private car or taxi, also by bus. But now we can increase the collective share to Torp. And all hearts are delighted that the airport gets its own railway station, even though we would like to have a more time-consuming rail service than what the Vestfold Railway is at the moment. It is quite remarkable that for some reason the Progress Party does not share a joint opinion on this particular matter. Then it might be natural for a Vestfold representative with a background in the road network to merge some comments on the road scandal that is now being rolled up in the county, and that is getting bigger and new dimensions. The crash in the Hanekleiv tunnel on Christmas 1st has revealed that what we thought was a road-technology masterpiece, rather the opposite. It's sad for road users, it's sad for the county, and it's sad for the state road system. In addition to the expert investigation on the crash in the Hanekleiv tunnel, there is now a report from the Internal Audit Office of the State Road Service. It does not, as far as I am concerned, answer all the main questions, namely who was responsible for what in the implementation of the plant. On the other hand, the internal audit report is very clear on the location of the responsibility for the actual execution of the works: it is in the building contractor’s role that the builder is responsible for monitoring the production. The responsibility was in other words placed, but was not taken. I have previously stated that an unhidden body should hazard all parts of the expansion of the E18 in North Westfold. For my part, I think it would have been natural to think about the Riksrevision in this respect. But I note that the Council of State intends to engage another unhidden body in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e372	I also want to comment on some other points in the setting. The progress party has claimed that I have provided incorrect information to the Stortinget on the Haukeli tunnels, and has criticised this. The work on the Haukeli tunnels will soon begin, on a scale similar to that originally foreseen. I think I have always briefed the Storting on developments in the matter, and when it was created uncertain last year that the State Road Administration had launched the project with greater scope and the right costs than the Stortinget had said, I stopped the project, which I also informed about in the 2007 budget proposal. I believe I have not provided incorrect information to Stortinget at any time. The Progress Party highlights both the prolonged collection in Kristiansand and the use of tolls for the operation of public transport as possible ESA cases. The directive that regulates this, called the Eurovignette Directive, clearly states that urban tolls are not covered by the Directive. I am a little surprised that the Progress Party, with its interest in tolls, is not aware of this. The Jondal tunnel has also received a visit, and several opposition sections underline the importance of building as soon as possible. Following the call for a regulatory plan in Kvinnherad, the Ministry of the Environment has today announced that there is no basis for lifting it. Nevertheless, the plan situation is not entirely clear, as the county councillor in Hordaland has a complaint under management that also applies to the same plan. When it is done, I will submit the matter to Stortinget as soon as possible. When it comes to the closure of the various recommendations of the Commission on Aviation, we have closed 13 of the 15 recommendations. By examining the Air Safety Authority itself, it was the Ministry that took on the task of reviewing the recommendations. In order to get things well explained, the cases have been on numerous hearings, and the last hearing announcements came first in the new year 2007. After that one found that 13 of the recommendations could be closed. In addition, of course, several themes are to be followed up, both at the meeting and in ordinary budgetary processes, and we are now working on a strategy plan for Norwegian aviation where I, among others, am involved. will address issues related to aviation security. I hope to have completed such a plan in 2007. Compared to Document No. 8:73, from the Progress Party, I am pleased that the entire Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party its members, maintains that decisions with a substantial budgetary impact shall mainly be taken in the ordinary budgetary procedures. I note that the majority of the committee wants to go along the lines that I proposed in St.prp. No 68 to restore confidence in the safety of Norwegian road tunnels, and is pleased with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e387	The proposition also has a review of winter maintenance, and we were so far within it in a row with the representative Jan Sahl. I have registered from many sides a rather serious dissatisfaction with the lack of maintenance. This applies to both summer and winter maintenance. The government has now allowed more to continue than ever, an increase of 500 million. kr. And it's very good, as also the proposition describes, that the government is now taking the initiative of a comprehensive effort to go through all the operating and maintenance standards of operations. Experience has shown that there is a need to strengthen the requirements of the Road Service and Entrepreneurs functional contracts and to strengthen the control of the work being carried out in accordance with the requirements. So this will hopefully give you a much better road maintenance. But administration and control are resource-requiring, and it is, in isolation, a transfer of important resources from maintenance tasks to bureaucracy and administration. So when the opposition in a comment claims that the reorganisation has given NOK 1 billion more to go every year, my claim, as I said, is that much of the winning goes up in spinning, and the result is poorer maintenance. When the Road Service no longer has such a spade that they can fill the hole, these holes often become standing. It is striking that it should be so difficult to have even small repairs required. Of course, private contractors were also very used, as the Vegvesen had its own production department, and in fact it was 78 pst. there was no point in itself to increase competition. The point was that when the buyers had the ability to do it themselves, they were involved and pushed prices down. In addition, many times it was more appropriate and faster to do it yourself. Measures needed at the Haukeli tunnel could, for example: they did so much faster than we are now experiencing. In addition, the Road Service was lost for much of the necessary purchasing and control skills. When the Department now tackles the maintenance problem in a good way, I also think that we should get an unsound evaluation of the impact of these conversions, and what kind of consequences it has that the Road Service does not have any maintenance or production department at all. At least we got a better basis for discussing this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e396	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 17 and 23. [[See pages 3718 and 3721]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e412	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e421	It's a pleasure for me as a case officer to present this long-awaited package to the Haugaland area. I think something for the reason that it has taken so long, among other things. I am pleased that we are now making sure that this project is started, that the measures have been taken, instead of standing on the sidelines and calling on the state, and using money from the oil fund for all possible good measures. Here we now have a government that actually acts, file the case, get the measures started. Not least, we do this because we see that it also has positive effects on the environment, and link it to reducing the growth of urban car traffic. Furthermore, it allows for a better collective effort in the area. It has not least Karmøy, Haugesund and Tysvær SV as important prerequisites for joining this package, and it is now clearly part of the package image. I think that more and more people in Haugaland, when you get to work on it and get speedy – one of them has started with the Skårdal crossing – will be happy that we didn't do what the Progress Party did, called for money, but never got anything else. This is where we are now showing action and doing what the local people have asked us to do. So I also remind you that many of the things we do actually happen in a traffic safety perspective to reduce the number of accidents on some distances, of course, in addition to getting rid of large cars that create pollution, and that makes most people in queues and call for more money, instead of most people actually getting the roads they're getting on Haugaland. The Committee has also made it quite clear that a desire to bring in the municipality of Karmøy, which has not wanted to join this before there was a clear collective signal, and where the Progress Party is the largest party and thus the largest brake block for new road construction, and the majority in the Committee are clear that we must do everything we can to avoid delaying the whole package process, as the municipality of Karmøy has also arranged for the position of the bombs. We went a few rounds with the management problem. I must say that after visiting the state road office in Haugalandand talking to the leader of theirs, Astrid Eide, I am very pleased that the secretariat was thus located locally in Haugesund. We also hope that the County Council will ensure that one is well represented from the local political level in the political governance to drive this project forward, so that it is well anchored locally. So hopefully the Committee's plurality that a priority is to link things to public transport and road safety, but leaves the final decisions to what is in the proposal and what is happening in the local governance groups. Of course, we are also aware from the majority that a non-necessary administrative cost of collection is not necessarily high, and that a look at possibilities for more cost-effective operations than one has provided so far. I think it's good that the government now gets solid support for the most part to develop not least collective provision and road supply in the Haugaland, and had well hoped that the largest party in the area, for example. on Karmøy, would be involved and contribute to solutions, like one in Oslo, like one in Us, and like one in other municipalities where one actually wants the result of the policy, and not only shouts the highest possible result.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e442	Once again, we see that local forces are gathering around important challenges in their region and want to move forward in order to solve projects for the benefit of businesses and most people. The rapporteur explained correctly to the Haugalands package, which is essentially projects on E134, rv. 47 and partly also on the E39 in both Rogaland and Hordaland. The right supports the majority voting in this case. It's not because we're so overly excited about enough of a toll project, but because it's important to solve the challenges contained in the package, and especially because it's wanted locally and from county level. I still allow myself some comments. During the spring and the committee's discussion of the matter, Karmøy has decided to join, as originally envisaged. And that's good. It is important now that the department does what is possible to pick up this snail that occurred by karmøy in a way that they signed out of the good company, and that they then get the municipality back into the Haugaland package without losing pace. So to the organization of the work. It was in the proposition put up for an organisational model that was unreasonable, all the time when the state only contributes 26-27 pst. of the investments. The government parties also reacted to this, and this has been partly met. We in the Right still believe that the county council and the municipalities should have been fully met on this issue, so we do not understand that the government parties here do not fully support the wish that has come from local and regional teams. It seems improper not only to be strange, but unreasonable for a political steering group not to be able to keep up with the secretariat they want. The State Road Service shall, of course, manage and have secretariat functions within the administrative group and may participate, of course, as an observer in the management group. But for me to have a secretariat function becomes illogical and faulty. I am surprised that the Council of State, which in all other contexts is concerned with local and regional influence – and that is very good – does not cut through here. Finally, we look in the project after a toll financing project that the state imposes solutions on companies that they do not want completely. Often there are expensive solutions with poor follow-up arrangements, expensive maintenance and poor and expensive service agreements. In this project, the collection costs are particularly high in relation to the income flow, for natural reasons. But that is exactly why it is particularly important to invest as cost-effectively as possible. In the right, we believe that the companies who know where the shoe prints, and who might have to struggle with possible misinvestments throughout the collection period, are probably as well fit to make this assessment as bureaucrats in the State Road Service. In the longer term, I believe that this whole responsibility for the collection equipment should have been left to the companies themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e459	I could almost say «same procedure as last time». It is true, as the representative Sahl said in an earlier speech today, that it is the Progress Party against smoking. It is the Progress Party against those who are most concerned that the State should not assume its necessary responsibility for financing infrastructure. I note that the majority, all except the Advancement Party, is very pleased. The majority point out that this is a requested local and regional project. The majority further indicate that this is a local initiative, and they have noticed that the municipality of Haugesund has forged the E134. Once again, when the majority is so concerned about pointing out that this is a local initiative, I interpret it there that they have to refer to it in order to clear their own conscience, because it's not local you decide to charge tolls. It is this house that adopts funding, and it is this house that adopts tolls. That's why I ask myself the question, when the same majority wants a cost-effective collection: why do they do it? They don't care about it, because it's the community that's going to pay anyway. If you had been concerned that it would be cost-effective, you might have noticed that there are extra costs here of 340 million. NOK to finance NOK 1.1 billion. That's what the majority should be concerned about, because it's a reality. When it says it's partial toll financing, it's not right. Toll financing is the main source of funding. DKr 1.1 billion of DKr 1.7 billion is to be financed by tolls. But in reality, there's going to be $1.4 billion in tolls. 85 pst. tolls are used to finance it. So maybe you could have been more concerned about that instead. The majority just follow up the rule no bomb, no way – cost what it will cost. In ten toll projects dealt with by Stortinget, the drivers have received an extra charge of NOK 4 billion in interest and collection costs in the construction of toll stations. $4 billion in extra billing -- there's a lot of way, there! Then it again refers to the Progress Party in a number of municipalities. I registered that the representative Langeland referred to three-four and several municipalities. Well, it's still the way it is in this house that you adopt tolls. Peter N. Myhre, the City Council of Oslo, cannot accept tolls. Then I register that the Progress Party, and especially our representatives in Karmøy, are blamed for having pulled it out in Rogaland. I am not going to advance any choice, but I have registered a poll in Karmøy, where the Progress Party has almost 44 p.m. excitement, so it might be interesting to see what's happening. It matters! Because when the majority always refers to the local initiative, there have been 30,000 signatures against this toll solution. And I don't think it smells like local initiative either, when the City Council in Haugesund writes in its decision: ‘The City Council considers that road development is primarily a state responsibility.’ The City Council goes on to say: ‘Haugesund City Council therefore sees itself forced to accept tolls in order to solve several road projects [[...]] It's coercion it's all about. There is no local initiative, and I understand that, because local and regional politicians are responsible politicians. And when the parties almost compete to jump for the best possible way away from the state financial responsibility, then local politicians have to take responsibility. That's what's happening. I shall end by promoting the traditional and good proposals of the Progress Party. And I don't think it's the last time the Progress Party does either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e489	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e492	We are pleased that the long-term extension of the Haugalands package is finally adopted today. That's good. And it's joy not only here in the house, but also locally. This package, with the projects and measures it contains, provides solutions to many and major traffic challenges in Rogaland and Hordaland. Local and regional involvement is strong, and it has been for a long time. The Christian People's Party, together with the Right and Left, has expressed scepticism that we here from the Storting should go in and tie up the project organisation's appropriate priorities and progress and direct exactly where the toll stations should be, as the majority of vague words have expressed themselves in their own note. In the case of Karmøy, the Christian People's Party is very pleased that the measures on Karmøy are back in the package after the majority of the local government has changed and now would like to join the split layer. The Christian People's Party is part of the majority who asks the Government to seek to take back the lost time, thus bringing Karmøy back into the Haugaland package as soon as possible, and at the latest early in the autumn of 2007. It is important for progress that the bombing site in the municipality of Karmøy can be planned at the same time as the other toll stations in the Haugaland package. With regard to the management and administration of the Haugalands package, we would point out that Rogaland County Municipality and the municipalities behind the Haugalands package would like to manage and manage the package in the same way as in the North-Jear but through the County Plan Cooperation Body. The Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left support this desire. Finally, the Christian People's Party fully supports the work of revising legislation so that toll money can be used for the operation of public transport. We are absolutely convinced that it is important to strengthen public transport. All measures that could lead to increased efforts on public transport are positive, especially because of the potential effects on the climate and the environment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e505	First of all, I would like to say that this is a good day for all those who are concerned about ensuring a more environmentally friendly, efficient and secure transport system in Haugaland. This toll package solves the financing of many different actions and projects that will solve local and regional traffic problems in both Rogaland and Hordaland that would be unresolved for a long time without them. The Haugaland package mainly includes remedial actions on E134 and Rv. 47 plus the county road network. Measures are also foreseen for E39. The Committee notes that the collection costs are high in this project. Of course, road traffic control forces will ensure that toll collection is as effective as possible. In the case of the plurality of its note on the location of a toll station at Skre – in order to avoid the transfer of traffic to a current transit route – the State Road Service will carry out a new assessment of this. Since the proposition was made before Easter, the Swedish Road Administration and local authorities have actively worked to clarify the necessary situation, so that projects and actions in the municipality of Karmøy can also be part of this package. In the further work on the Haugalands package, it is taken in height so that this part of the original package can be realized as soon as possible. In my letter of 9 May to the Transport and Communications Committee, I promised to put a case on such an extension before Stortinget to the fall. In this context, it would also be natural to report on the assessments made in connection with the location of the toll station at Skre. This toll package is only the starting point for the current work. What will be important in the follow-up is to give priority to actions and projects in order to achieve the objectives set out both in the proposal, in the sub-plan and in the transport plan for Haugaland. In this work, both local and regional authorities and governments have an important role to play. There have been questions about the problem with the borrowing rate, and the fact that one in the proposition introduces a requirement that this should be documented. The formulation is usually: ‘Budget of 6,5 pst. provided evidence of intra-interest loans from a loan institution for a period of 10 to 15 years is available prior to plant start.» The situation is that at a standard interest rate, the project does not pay off within a normal toll period of 15 years. This option could not be used to generate the project. The requirement for documentation has been clearly seen as a requirement for a fixed-rate contract. It has raised our objection that fixed interest rates can in the long run be more expensive than floating interest rates. That's right. But in a specific project, one will not have the final answer until the down payment is complete. It has also been raised to object that a fixed-rate agreement usually has a rigid amortisation plan. It may therefore be a problem to have a full loan as a fixed-rate loan on the basis of the fact that toll revenue will be able to fluctuate. I think it's right to have such a requirement as laid down in the proposition. If it is not possible to achieve the established interest rate conditions, the costs will be passed on to road users and, in the last analysis, the guarantee points may also be affected. It must be noted that the proposition does not specify the type of interest-rate agreement to be concluded by the toll companies — it may be different from fixed interest rates — but only the maximum borrowing rate for the majority of the repayment period, if any, of the loan. We all have a common interest in ensuring that toll financing is not more expensive than necessary, but of course I want to look at how the requirement of documented interest can be met and should be addressed in future propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e529	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e532	It was okay that the Council of State took this on this matter, so we save time in later matters today. I also think it was okay that it was said that there is evidence that it is possible to finance projects within 6.5 p.m., which is the requirement. In the past, it was 8 pst. and everyone had to deal with the fact that if the project could not be financed within 8 pst. interest rate — then we had a higher interest rate — was not promoted. So the interest rate went down sharply, and you've eased this down to 6.5 pst. I'm very calm about this and I don't need to ask any other question than that I really heard correctly, that there's evidence that it's possible to get an interest rate of 6.5 pst, which is what the Council of State means.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e539	I can confirm that hearing the representative is not in the way. That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e545	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e550	Many have said that today is a joyous day. But it's a happy day with a bismach, because it's also a great day of sorrow, given the funding that's in this package. It has become so popular among the red-greens to produce the party of progress as the party that only gives tax relief to the rich, and then they make themselves like Robin Hood who takes from the rich and gives to the poor. But in this case of toll financing for the Haugalands package, I have to ask myself who is being taxed. This toll financing is a modern form of road robbery and primarily affects those who have the least, especially those who have children to be transported to and from schools and kindergartens, and adults who are going to work. There is certainly no limit to how far this government will go in demanding money from the drivers. The use of toll financing has run smoothly under this government and is now completely out of control. Of the total funding plan for the Haugalands package of SEK 1.7 billion, SEK 1.1 billion is toll financing. If this isn't the extra tax on people most, then I don't know. As far as this matter is concerned, it is certainly not a problem for the majority to have rapid and effective treatment, as long as toll financing is concerned. The use of toll financing in this case gives the inhabitants of the Haugaland the bulk of the funding, while the city, which is responsible for the road, almost does not participate at all. 85 pst. of the total amount paid by users. This is extra tax. Then it's funny to hear the majority here in the Chamber today saying that there's so much local desire and local initiative. But do they have any choice? It is appropriate to remind the majority that the toll financing of the Haugaland package is highly controversial locally, and that more than 30,000 signatures were collected against this. The citizens were not asked directly through local referenda, which the Progress Party thought should be done here. It is important to note the decision of the City Council in Haugesund. The city council says right away that they feel compelled to accept tolls in order to solve important projects. That Karmøy municipal government has said no, is not being sacrificed a thought. Hallgeir Langeland says they're calling for money. Yes, they are in fact calling for their own money that is paid for in petrol and road taxes. This case again shows that we have an action paralysed government in terms of placing on the market, and especially on the road and maintenance. Government appropriations for the transport sector are far too low in terms of needs and socio-economic profitability. The solution to today's government is to push the bill over to the inhabitants, and there is an additional tax that affects those who have at least before.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e569	I can't help but answer the challenge that now came, even if I don't want to light up a toll debate. We've had plenty of them. They're seniors. We know exactly what the Progress Party will say and do. But I want to ask people around this country to start looking at what the Progress Party has got. They have a large group on Stortinget. They've had a large group for several periods. In the previous period, the Progress Party was a supporting party. They claim they weren't, but it was the Progress Party that inserted the Bondevik II government. They had not come to power if not Carl I. Hagen had put them in. What did they get? How many billion trades were added to the previous period? How many projects have the Progress Party got through by running political crafts, concluding compromises and finding solutions? That's how we measure what one gets. Then we can be ranked and clean – the Center Party could have done that too. There hadn't been much of a way of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e576	The Council of State doesn't fire me in a toll debate, because no one is as predictable about financing roads as today's Minister of Transport – or the toll queen, as I have said earlier. The center party is even a party that's programmed that enough is enough for tolls, but she's the one that's more active. Today’s Council of State is historically in the sense that the drivers pay an extra tax that is greater than what the State contributes to the construction of the tribal road. But the reason I took the floor was that the Council of State put forward to clear its own conscience: it is the Progress Party today and yesterday and yesterday that is responsible for this government not financing state infrastructure. My question may also be to the Council of State: What did the Senterpartiet get on its way from 1997 to 2001, under Bondevik I? What did the Centre Party do in the last period? What has the Central Party done when they have been sitting with the Council of State within the same field in a number of previous governments? What has happened in the road sector has happened over 15–16-17 years. It's been down-prioritized, down-prioritized and down-prioritized with changing governments, but the main thing is that the Center Party has been in power in the field of transportation. I understand that the Council of State, the Centre Party, the SV and the Workers' Party must use this kind of argument in order not to focus on their own intransigence. Because that's what's happening. But fortunately, when the Council of State comes from the pulpit to the Norwegian people, I am pleased with that. Because I think the Norwegian people have recorded what's going on. They have recorded that the so-called district party of the Center Party is the most centralizing party in today’s magnificence and government – because they force local communities, and they impose more and more on local communities. When the Council of State sent letters to the big cities to get an initiative on the road pricing, she did not get the answer from local politicians she wanted. Therefore, this government is now to force road pricing on these communities. Then the local initiative doesn't mean anything anymore. It is only when it suits the Centre Party – and it is largely appropriate to the Centre Party when they can impose additional costs on the drivers. Norwegian drivers pay nearly 60 billion kroner. Maybe it's time they got something back.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e585	The centre party and this government have raised the transport budget by 2 billion kroner. For this year, the Government will comply with the National Transport Plan. We have followed it up in the revised national budget with extra funds for the Hanekleiv tunnel from the Government's side, as opposed to the previous government, supported by the Progress Party, where a fetch money to repair the Oslofjord tunnel from other projects around the country. One couldn't find the 70 million. kr in extras. In the first budget debate I was in the Stortinget, the Senter Party and I were accused by Per Sandberg of pursuing a district-enemyed policy on transport. When I said some time ago – and there was some newspaper headlines about it – that we had to bet more on public transport in the cities and more on roads in the districts, the Progress Party went high on the track and said the Center Party was a danger to the urban struts, because we wanted to spend all the money in the districts. Today he turns on the contrary in his argument. Today I hear again that we are a centralizing party. So in any case, Sandberg and the Progress Party should decide what kind of characteristics they want to give us, but it doesn't mean so much to the Government or the Center Party what one will call us. We work purposefully to achieve practical goals that mean something to people. It means something to people in Haugaland that the roads are coming, it means something to people around the country that they get the roads they're going to have. Yes, ideally, I would like the state to pay everything. But if the Progress Party were in government, they would also have felt that one must distribute between sectors, and that one does not always get the money an ideal set of things. In the ideal part of progress, there is money for absolutely everything – unlimited. It's not like that in the real world. And what is not bounded by the fact that we don't have money, is constrained by, as we see, an economy that at least I don't want to contribute to getting an even greater interest rate and a stronger dollar rate, with the risk of flagging out a lot of jobs. I have received a written question from the Progress Party where they claim that this government is the government that has opened for 100 pst. toll financing. Of course, I will answer that letter and that question in an ordinary way. But it was the progress party-supported Bondevik II government that opened for 100 pst. toll financing, through the Svinesundsbrua project.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e594	I believe that the Norwegian people are about to discover that the Janus face of the Advance Party appears in the area by region, now also in the case of tolls. For the use of words that Sandberg uses in terms of tolls, it is not entirely in line with what is stated in the principal programme. Because there they say yes to use tolls as funding on certain assumptions. Last week, it was well, Per Sandberg was in Fredrikstad, and said – if he's kind of right in the newspapers – yes to use tolls to finance a new ring road, provided there was an opportunity to drive alternative routes. But the Progress Party has voted against the toll projects E18 and E6 in Østfold despite the possibility of running alternative routes. Then it would have been up to the Progress Party, and they would have had a pass for their vote, so we wouldn't have had a four-field E6 that is now almost complete. So Sandberg says that he apologizes locally for his party traps that are in a situation where they actually have to take responsibility, where they have to choose between an initiative that means road, or queue. And then we see that in Oslo, in Austevoll, in Us we go. And then he says that they're forced by the Storting, because there's a decision that's made here. Yes, that's right, decisions are made here. But the decision would not have been made here if it had not been made locally that said yes to that project. Per Sandberg may use as large a word as he will, but it is a fact that this government has followed up, as the first government, the Stortinge's decision on the road and transport plan that had been made the period before. And it's been a historic boost. That you would want even more, that's now, that's what you can share. But to characterize this as not getting anything on the way, it's a form of debate and some words and expressions that really just look back on yourself. I think we all serve to conduct a political debate with a few words and expressions that are a little more in line with the realities. And that's where I think Per Sandberg has some way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e603	Now we are there again – now the toll debate is breaking up again. To the representative Per Sandberg, we don't have to clear our own conscience. We've listened to local democracy, and as it's been around, most people are willing to get ahead of projects and go in for toll financing. Then you can like it or not, but that's the way it is. If there is someone who is invincible – to use a strong expression from this pulpit – it must be the previous government, the Bondevik II government, with the Progress Party as a supporting party, because they were unable to follow the promises they had made. If transportation was so important to the Progress Party, they could have forced that government to kneel, but at that time it was not interesting. Then maybe there were other arenas. Now, all of a sudden, together with the previous governmentmates, they have lifted traffic to a very high level. I'm a little surprised at the debate now. There must be some sort of envy, because you couldn't at all in the last period fulfill the promises you had made for election, while this government fulfills the promises it made for election. The right thing to do is: the Progress Party was in – as has been said earlier from this pulpit – raising the national transport plan. It must then be assumed that the representative Per Sandberg is in line with what was done in the national transport plan. You might have wanted more, but this government is about to comply with the NTP. I am really asking the representative Sandberg to be so sober that at least he can say that this government delivers what it has told it to do with the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e616	The President may think that 'necessary' is at the frontier as to what should be permitted as a parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e619	The Progress Party Per Sandberg came with quite strong characteristics of the Center Party as a government party – etc. was well ‘possible’ first used there. And he manages in a more or less elegant way to jump over the fact that the toll projects are locally initiated and requested by municipalities and county municipalities that will do the best for the communities they have. I have noticed that the Progress Party, with its strong rhetoric, very often gets the last word in toll debates. And then I come up with a quotation – without comparison with Per Sandberg or the Progress Party otherwise – which is like this: Human beings who get the last word are rarely those who have the first thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e626	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e629	The last word has not yet been said in the case of tolls. I stand by the fact that the Central Party is not just a threat to the districts and big cities – it is a threat to the Norwegian community in general when the Central Party comes to power. It shows all the results. We agree that it means something to people and to communities that infrastructure is being built – it does – but I think it means even more to the communities that the state takes its responsibility. That's not what it's about, whether it means something or not. We agree on that. What we're discussing is whether the state should assume its responsibilities. The working party does not deny itself. I do not apologise for my colleagues in local politics – I apologise for the Labour Party, the Central Party and the SVs. None of these local politicians – from SV to the Progress Party – that I have talked to around the whole country, wanting tolls. They're forced to do it. It is not a local initiative that is behind it – they do it because they are forced to do it. As regards the follow-up to the National Transport Plan: the Government does not follow up on NTP. There's already a backlog of SEK 1.6 billion in the road sector, but if the Council of State wants to take this back next year, we're satisfied with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e643	I thought this was going to be a short and straightforward debate where most agreed on the matter, but then we got this toll debate. It's okay. I am not going to interfere in the debate between the Government and the Progress Party, but sometimes the representative is flocking to these debates. Then he turns to the great heights, and claims that the Bondevik government did not comply with the NTP. As a general rule, this is statement No. 1st@item: inlistbox And every time I have to go up to this pulpit and tell him. Stream that if you count on the OPS project in Trøndelag, the Bondevik government actually did. 600 million. You had ambition, and we did that. Then he says in the next statement: this government, however, meets NTP. Yeah, let's see, then. Nothing is better than doing it, but there are still two years left. So it looks like my budget papers, which I've got from the government, there's a good 600 million. after in the case of road, and 1 billion after in the case of rail. It's not fulfilling NTP. It is possible to do it over the entire four-year period – and have ambition about it – but then you have to say it. You have to be so despicable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e652	Very Card: There will be tricking with numbers when the representative Halleraker inserts the OPS project as part of the bet of the previous government. The OPS projects charge my budget annually – more and more as the payments increase. The OPS project was not covered by the previous government. I'm the one who's paying that bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e659	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3719]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e675	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e684	After many years and many debates, today in Stortinget we are invited to adopt the Road Package Salt Phase I. It has great significance both for the Salt and for the Nordic countries. Road package Salt phase I will significantly increase the standard on the main roads into the county capital of Bodø. That is why it is a pleasure for me today to be rapporteur on this matter. Rv. 17 is the main trajectory along the coast between Helgeland and Salten. In the north, it starts at the intersection with rv. 80 in the town of Twarland two miles outside the Bodø center. The distance to be corrected is the first eight to nine kilometres on rv. 17. Today's road is narrow and curved, and there's no room for either mid-strips or pedestrians. There have also been some accidents in there in recent years. There is a lot of traffic on this road section, both because many commute to Bodø and also because Rv. 17, also called the Coastal Route, is a very attractive and widely used tourist route. The great tourist attraction Saltstromen, which many here know, is just south of Godøystraumen on the left. 17, so that virtually all tourists to and from the Salt Stream use the road section that is now – with the Stortingen’s connection – to have its most necessary standard lift. The project provides 8 km of road in a new track, with a road width of 7.5 metres. The environment for those living along the existing road is significantly improved when transit traffic disappears. The other road section included in the Road Package Salt Phase I is rv. 80, the main road between the state capital of Bodø and Fauske. Fauske is, as most people know, by E6 and Rv. 80 is the main road linking Bodø to E6. In other words: Rv. 80 is an important road link for both industry and the Salt population. The daily commute between Fauske and Bodø is large. The largest project included in the package provides 5.9 km of new road between Røvika and Strømsnes in the municipality of Fauske and shortening the Bodø-Fauske section for a total of 6 km. The distance thus becomes well below 6 miles long. The bottleneck Milleyiva, middle between Bodø and Fauske on rv. 80, to be repaired as part of the package. Measures are planned to combat roadside parking, to remove off-road driving, and not least to build 2,5 km of new walking and cycling road along rv. 80 west of Fauske. The measure will, of course, improve conditions for vulnerable road users and improve road safety. In addition, those using the Klungsetmarka, which is a popular exit area, will benefit from an extended walk and cycle path. It is gratifying that there is broad local political agreement on the Salt package and that it is promoted in two phases. In this way, work can be started on the projects that are most advanced in planning. Phase II mainly includes projects and actions related to the entrance and exit of Bodø Centre and the improvement of routes and high accident frequency points on rv. 80 near Bodø. Rv. 80 and Rv. 17 are the major pulse veins in the Salt region, with about 76 000 inhabitants. Road development in Salt will lead to shorter travel time, safer traffic and better living environment on the routes. Work on curtailment and conversion of current roads and the development of pedestrian and cycle routes and other environmental and road safety measures will start already in the autumn. Development will have many positive effects on people and businesses in Bodø and throughout Salt. It is essential for the development of the Salt region as a region of residence, work and service that the Road Package Salt Phase I is launched now and that the Road Package Salt Phase II is assessed in the context of the rolling of the National Transport Plan and realised at a later stage. Good communications will be particularly important for municipalities around Bodø to be able to maintain their settlement, through good access to the varied labour market, including: Bodø representing the county capital. Finally, I would like to give both the rapporteur in the municipality of Bodø, Odd-Tore Fygle, and the rapporteur in the municipality of Fauske, Kjell Eilertsen, and other actors a credit for the work they have done in getting the Road Package Salt Phase I on wheels – for both business and not least the Salt population.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e710	Let me open with commendation to the case rapporteur for dealing with the matter and not least for the description he gives regarding the need to put this type of infrastructure in place. The rapporteur is quite right that these are two national road sections that need to be addressed – for the sake of business, the environment, safety and people most in the area. Then we also divide here, because once again the majority points out that this is a local political wish. It's a rehearsal exercise for toll trailers in all contexts. There is no question of why there is a local political desire here to impose tolls. But we also discussed that in the previous case. Rv. 80 and Rv. 17 is state property, and I still believe that it is the state that will be responsible for them. I also see that municipalities and county councils provide a guarantee, while the department in a way sets the requirements. It doesn't harmonize in my ears. 51.6 pst. the costs shall be financed by tolls on rv. 17 and above 60 pst. on rv. Eighty-eight. Here we are in the same situation. Even if it is presented as if tolls are equivalent to 305 million. So the total amount – when one includes the additional costs incurred – is 650 million. kr. So it's going to cost us 305 million. SEK to build these projects, in which case you will charge NOK 345 million. Extra kroner. I might think it's time to get a debate that's more thorough in relation to whether this is socio-economically useful when you build infrastructure and the price is doubled without you getting any extra meters by road. That's the reality here. That's 118 pst. tolls in this case. Then I do nothing but end up promoting the very good proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e730	The representative Per Sandberg has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e733	I agree with what Sandberg said. The rapporteur presented the matter very well, and we support it. In this case, we have discussed the issue of a fixed-rate agreement and that there should be an agreement before the agreement between the company and the state was written. That it should not be understood this way, we have now clarified in one case earlier today – it should be understood that there should be evidence that such an interest rate is possible. I'm very happy about that. That also means that I would ask the President to convert the proposal we have in the vote into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e740	The representative, Mr Halleraker, has now referred to proposal No. 1 for a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e743	As I have said before, it is a great pleasure when we stand in front of the launch of a new communication project. I can't hide the fact that it is an extraordinarily great pleasure when a large transportation project in the home state is during the start-up. We are in a strong press area in Northern Ireland with high traffic growth and heavy road accidents. We are pleased that the investigation work is now under way, and that there is a local political agreement on the arrangement. There is every reason to commend Fauske and Bodø municipalities who have found a common solution, who have managed to agree on a toll scheme, and who are accelerating this very important project for many years. It is a local political desire to get the phase I projects started as soon as possible. It is therefore good that the local political consensus has now led to a two-stage solution of the Road Package Salt, so that project I can be started at first and plans for Part II are completed. Phase I includes the development of rv. 17 The cross-country–Guyøstraumen and rv. 80 Roevika–Strømsnes in Bodø and Fauske municipalities. In addition, two minor measures are included in Rv. Eighty-eight. Phase II includes, as has previously been said, improvements to and from the entry and exit routes to and from the Bodø Centre and the improvement of particularly accident-affected routes on rv. Eighty-eight. Rv. 80 and Rv. 17 are the main arteries of the salt, and the build-up of the road in the salt will bring important improvements. High accident frequency and poor standard and the good opportunities to cut down on the length of the route have been the background for the strong desire to do something about this distance. Rv. 17 is the main trajectory along the coast between Helgeland and Salten and has poor standard and narrow width. With the measures in the Salt Package, we are now getting safer traffic, shorter travel time and reduced environmental disadvantages. We are also looking forward to phase II of the Salt Package, as entry and exit veins to and from the Bodø Centre are to be improved and especially the point of accident on that route is to be corrected. Otherwise, we are pleased with the comment that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand for in terms of the loan agreement. We support what the representative, Mr Halleraker, has said, following positive signals from the Minister, that the proposal should be transmitted without a vote of the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e758	Many people feel that the emergence and safety of two of the most important road sections in the Nordic region is getting better. Measures in this proposition will benefit business and daytime commuters in the district, but not least should also be better developed for those who live along the new roads. It is a local initiative for partial toll financing. This is the first phase of a larger package. Phase I five on measures on and along rv. 17 and Rv. 80 in Bodø and Fauske municipalities. Rv. 17, which we often call the Coastal Route, and which has the status of a national tourist road, is to be transformed between the Gottäustraum and the transverse, where today the standard is particularly low relative to traffic. On rv. 80 is the main project, a distance of 6.2 km from the route between Roevuka and Stroemsnes. This will bring significant gains in revenue, while improving road safety and the environment along the original road. In addition, there are repairs at Milleyiva and walkway and cycle path between Stranda and Klungset in Fauske in Phase I. I expect that the new Rv.17 can be opened in 2009, while the projects on Rv. 80 will probably end in 2010. Toll collection is increasing after opening the respective roads. Otherwise, there is good agreement between the drivers who benefit from the individual projects and those who are involved in financing them, so that the principle in the toll project guidelines is respected. I am pleased that the attitude of the Committee on Transport and Communications in this matter is positive and corresponds to the proposition. I have also noticed that the questions raised by the Committee in connection with this matter have concentrated on borrowing rates and standard agreements. When this was taken into account in the Haugalands package, I will not take the time to address it in this matter. But once again, I would like to stress that the proposition does not say what kind of interest rate agreement the toll company is going to conclude – it may be different from fixed interest rates – just how high the maximum borrowing rate is for the majority of the repayment period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e769	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e785	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e801	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e817	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e826	The Committee's position in this matter is promoted by all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, which I consider to be promoting its own views and proposals in the matter. The majority of the Committee, in its examination of St.prp. No 1 for 2005-2006 the following note: ‘The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, is aware that, in its opinion consultation decision on the National Transport Plan and Action Programme in spring 2005, Østfoldpak Phase 1 was asked to be revised in 2006. The majority support such an audit and ask the Government to follow this up. It is desirable in this context that the most continuous deployment of E18 can be envisaged.» I am pleased that the Government has followed up this in the matter that is to be dealt with here today. There is a large local involvement of municipalities and county councils in Eastfold in order to implement the Eastfold Package Phases 1 and 2 as this package was adopted in connection with St.prp. No 26 for 1999-2000, and subsequent treatments for several other landfill and landfill sites. The main elements of Eastfold Package Phase 1 are the extension of the four-field motorway on E6 and E18, and the further extension of the double-track railway from Moss and southwards. Phase 1 is under implementation, and E6 will be completed next year, but there is still a lot left on the E18 and the railway before both parts are fully developed. The government has supported the local involvement and, in cooperation with the county council and the municipalities, has worked on the scheme submitted for treatment today. The facility will accelerate the start of construction on the extension of the road project E18 Parsellen Krosby-Knapstad in Østfold, compared to the originally planned in NTP. Thus, a new 8 km four-field road on the E18 through Østfold can be opened for traffic during the summer of 2008. In order to achieve this, the county has agreed to waive the requirement that the state should cover 50 pst. of the total development costs of E6 and E18, including the Norwegian part of the Svinesund compound, and accepted that the recovery period is extended to 20 years both on E6 and E18, with an increase of the tolling tariffs of E18 by 25 pst. from 2010. The extension is also done without any commitment by the State to an end date for the whole of the E18 development, as the county municipality originally wanted. With this, there is a strong local willingness to contribute to the development of the E18. The E18 is the main year of travel for those living in that region, and it is the main year of travel between the capitals of Sweden and Norway. The population here is keen to generate growth in the region through good communication and organisation for business development and regional development, and has, among other things, establish a joint INTERREG project, supported by the EU, to work on this. This case has therefore been followed with great interest also on the Swedish side, and the handling of this case here today is being met with enthusiasm on both sides of the border. The route to be built is the most traffic-laden part of E18 in Eastfold. The development will therefore lead to a reduction in traffic and environmental problems at the Spydeberg centre, and road safety will be significantly improved on this route. This is very important for those who are going here to daily. There are many reasons for the local willingness to contribute. The cost of the deployment of E18 through Eastfold has been higher than previously foreseen. This is mainly due to the construction of a four-field road from Momark to Akershus’ border, instead of a two-field road as originally planned. As I said, the financing facility involves changes in the toll system for E6 and E18, which allows for a transfer of approx. 390 million. kr in State resources from E6 to E18 for the period 2006-2009. In addition, the State has committed to contribute SEK 480 million. kr for the period 2010–2013, which is approx. 210 million. kr more than that foreseen in NTP. It has therefore also been shown that there is a strong will on the part of the state to continue its development. There is no room for further expansion of the Easternfold package toll system. The remaining sections of E18 in Eastfold must therefore be financed by State resources. I am pleased that further deployment of the E18 will be assessed in the forthcoming revision of the NTP, as neither progress nor funding is mentioned in the current NTP. The proposition shows that the tolling company has to demonstrate that the interest rate on the loan in respect of the projects included in the package will not exceed 6,5 pst. the next 10 to 15 years, i.e. similar issues that have been addressed in the past. I would like to make it clear, as rapporteur of the case, that this does not necessarily have to be done in the form of an ordinary fixed rate agreement, and that, in addition to this, the Ministry does not provide any guidance as to what the toll companies' loan agreements look like. The location of the toll station on the 311, Osloveien, is also mentioned in the case. The Ministry is in the process of assessing this, but points out that today's location is based on the case. With this I recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e861	Actually, I could only be content to promote the proposals of the Progress Party in the vote, but I still want to make some comments here. I record that the progress in the setting on page 5 indicates that the proposition says: ‘The extension of the tolling period to 20 years is in line with the general rule that the collection period is to be limited to 15 years. However, in order to ensure the forced deployment of E18 Krosby-Knapstad, the Ministry of Transport recommends a 20-year recovery period.’ – New interventions to finance national toll transport corridors. The rapporteur shall be commended for his presentation. I note that the case rapporteur now also includes the Swedes, who welcome Norwegian tolls. Now it is no longer just a national initiative, now the Swedes are also with and are positive. In the option, the majority repeatedly refers to the local exposure: «The majority take note of the strong local involvement», they note «cooperation with Østfold County Municipality», they note that it is «in line with local wishes and decisions», they note that the county council has adopted, they note that the county council has «disappeared», they note that the county council has guaranteed, they note that Eastfold County Municipality has «joined». That's what this is all about. The majority are constantly using local and regional politicians, and almost all of them are relieved of responsibility for the introduction of tolls. I find that regrettable when we talk about national transport corridors. It just shows a lack of political will to finance state infrastructure. We all agree that this national transport corridor, with the improvements to be made, will mean increased safety. It will mean better environment, and it will mean a lot to businesses and people most. Now we've dealt with twelve toll projects. So in the case of these twelve toll projects, we're going to have to pay 200 million. kr for construction and demolition of toll stations — not one metre of road. 900 million must be used. kr to collect the toll – not one metre away. $3.5 billion is to be used to pay interest – not one meter away. So here it's going to be paid over $4 billion that doesn't make it one meter away! Isn't it soon time to discuss whether this is useful? How much are you willing to charge the drivers for not getting anywhere? That's what's really happening. Over 10 billion kroner are required into tolls, and only half are going to finance the road. I think it is time for more than the Progress Party to respond to the kind of payment system on our roads, especially when there are others who are paying off on the roads of the state. I am in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e888	The representative Per Sandberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e891	I will honestly admit that I have gone into the treatment of this matter with some mixed feelings. On the one hand, it is positive that this important parcel is now being started, without the works stopping, as it looked for a long time. But on the other hand, it is important to be aware that this is a very limited case, which does not provide a solution to what has been the main requirement of Eastfold, namely the completion of the whole E18 through Inner Eastfold. Until we reach yours, it's a long way to go. It's also important to be aware that E18 is not any way. It is actually the second most important road for Norway when we talk about road transport in and out of the country. It's just E6 over the Svinesund that has higher volume and higher traffic. We also know that there's a dramaticly high number of fatal accidents on the E18. Therefore, I am pleased that at a long earlier time, during the previous downtime, it was assumed that the first plans for a motorway on large sections of the route that would be two-field were reworked to be a four-field motorway with separate lanes in each direction. Traffic safety is a very important improvement, and there is also some reason why the costs of the project have increased significantly. When the proposal came from the Government a few weeks ago, one could at first glance get the impression that this was a fantastic good news, because it was almost presented in the media as if the expansion of the E18 through the Inner Eastfold was supposed to be carried out by five years. It did not take many minutes, however, until we discovered that, at my discretion, this was a rather elaborate attempt to sell out a news item. Here it was not about any particularly offensive bet by the Government. It was rather the final proof of what I want to characterize as a solid lifting break and a electoral curse. The point is that, on April 16, 2005, Åslaug Haga, the centre party leader and first candidate for the centre party in Akershus, and Eastfold’s first candidate for the centre party, Knut J. Herland, formulated in a reading column that they themselves had written, the following crystal-clear promise to Eastfold’s voters: ‘The Central Party will undertake to implement the deployment of E18 through the Inner Eastfold by 2009.’;» It can't be said more clearly. So this was under pressure on April 16, 2005. Through the proposal we are now considering, the Government, with the Central Party's own Minister of Transport at the head, proposes that a smaller parcel be set at about 50 percent. 8 km from Krosby to Knapstad shall be covered by increased use of tolls and completed in the summer of 2010. But still there will be three large and important plots left over for a total cost of NOK 1.1 billion. Unfortunately, the government's proposal does not contain plans for the maintenance of the remaining parcels or any signals as to when a continuous E18 through the Inner Eastfold could be completed. It is therefore no exaggeration to call this a solid lifting break and a electoral curse. This case has caused quite considerable fury in large parts of Eastfold. To illustrate the level this rascal has reached, I would quote a editorial in the newspaper of the Smaalene, as the editor wrote, printed on 14 November 2005: ‘Åslaug Haga, the leader of the Sp and the country’s municipal minister, is a political swindler and liar.’ In this case, it was guaranteed that a completion would be carried out in 2009. We have now been documented that it is very uncertain when you can finish. You can't sketch when it's going to happen. That's why I have to comment on this matter with mixed feelings, and I have to say I expected more, based on what you actually promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e916	A few words about the new development of Phase 1 Easternfold. The size has previously agreed to the Eastfold package with partly toll-financed development of E6 and E18 in Eastfold. On a number of occasions, Storting has subsequently adopted changes to the package. Today, new changes are being adopted, and the Christian People's Party supports it. It's positive that we get a follow-up of what the county has been busy for a long time. In several contexts, Eastfold County Councils have been in favour of revising phase 1 of the Eastfold Package. The central requirements of the county council include, inter alia: have been provided by the State with a State funding share of 50 p.m., with the completion of E18 in 2009-2010 and with the required start of construction for the Krosby-Knapstad section until 2006. Today the revision comes, with the maintenance start of the route, and that's good. But there are three items that I want to point out in particular. When we discussed the Eastfold package in connection with St.prp in the Transport Committee. No 26 for 1999-2000, a 50/50 cost sharing between tolls and State resources was foreseen. That principle is now breaking, and it's unfortunate. The Ministry also states that the scheme proposed for the county and accepted by the county involves a breach of the guidelines for the use of tolls. It's also unfortunate. In view of the fact that the county council in Østfold has joined the draft extension and financing arrangements submitted by the Ministry of Transport to the county council, we still support the Government's proposal in the proposal. My last point is that it is unfortunate that there is no clear end date for the E18 development. In the context of the 2005 State budget, it was decided that the completion of the E6 should be accelerated until 2008. There is no clarification as to when E18 will be completed. A central requirement from the county has been the completion of the E18 in 2009-2010. The development of E18 on the Krosby–Knapstad route is now under way without any commitment by the State to an end date for the whole of the E18 development. It is true that we have not had such an end date before either. But the previous government made a real effort to reform the E6. It was accelerated until 2008. We get hope and faith that the sitting government is able to make a similar effort for the E18, so that we get an end date and can get some peace around this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e933	I would first like to thank the Committee on Transport and Communications very much for taking this matter into account as quickly as one has done here. It is absolutely crucial for progress in this matter that the Stortinget's treatment takes place before the holiday takes place – so I am very happy that one has been so liberal that one has done so. The government, through its proposals on the subject, has made it possible that the development of E18 through Østfold will not stop in 2007. I am very pleased that the Committee has, through its setting up, agreed with the Government's arrangement, so that the development can continue. However, the fact that one today has no clear time for the rest of the E18 development in Eastfold to be completed does not seem to me to be a shadow of the fact that the Government has now taken a step in the direction that E18 can be completed throughout Eastfold as a new road in a few years. In this way, in the context of the national transport plan for the 2010–2019 planning period, we will learn how the plan for further progress in the development will be completed. I find the comment from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left somewhat strange, where they found it critical that there are no further plans for the fortification or the time of the finalisation. I would like to remind you that if we had followed the scheme for the previous government in NTP 2006–2015, Krosby–Knapstad would have started at the end of the ten-year period. That's why Martin Engeset is mistaken in his criticism of the Government. He should have praised us for having completed this project by four, five years. If the E18 was a priority in the NTP action programme, I should also have followed it up, but the proposal in the national transport plan, as the previous government stated, was, after all, NOK 1 billion lower on the road. So if the previous government had its program of medicine at its core, E18 would have been pushed out into a very uncertain future. It is the government party of the day, together with the Progress Party, that has at least got the action program up to a level that makes it possible to get the next parcel of E18 going. The same minority is keen to use OPS on E18 in Eastfold. In this context, I would like to see what the previous government said in NTP 2006–2015. Citation: ‘The Ministry of Transport considers that the three pilot projects could provide a good basis for drawing conclusions on the continuation of the model also on other projects and will provide an overall assessment of the experience once all procurement processes have been completed.’ The sitting government has followed up on this. An external evaluation is now being completed, and we will come back to the Storting in the budget proposal for the house. There will be a basis for deciding on any further use of OPS in Norway. I will finally see that the cooperation with Eastfold County Municipality and County Spokesman Arne Øren in this matter has been very good. The project between Krosby and Knapstad was not possible without the decisions taken by the district council of Eastfold. So I want to give a big boost to local authorities who, through their handling of cases, have made it possible for the Government to present these plans, plans that will benefit road users through better standards at E18 through Østfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e953	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e956	In the Committee's configuration, the Right and Left states that: ‘points out that the Minister for Transport has created further uncertainty as to when a coherent E18 can be completed by opening up an investigation into a completely new trasé option through Akershus; [[Southern mark option]] Now we know that Å's municipality, which originally initiated the Sørmarka option to suddenly be thrown into the trasé debate, has withdrawn its desire to investigate it. Now Ås kommune and Ski kommune agree that it should not be included among the alternatives to be investigated. Then, on June 13th, Mr. Signe Eye says to Mr. Smälenes's newspaper: ‘I hope the Council of State will not continue to do so when all local actors agree.’ Then my question is: will the Minister for Transport now also, for his part, scrape the Sørmark option as a possible trajectory?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e973	I open a KS1 layout that also implies an Eastern option. This message has expired from the department of the State Road Administration. I do as I do, easy to listen to local authorities. That they have made their decision at a later date is so, but my mission has been given, and will be standing. So the process will show if that whole option has life's right. It'll cost you a little bit. It will not mean any progress in that it will also be included in the KS1 statement. I would like to remind you that KS1 is about a quality assurance in the early stages and is nothing but an assessment of whether a project should be awarded further. Of course, in the next phase there will be other assessments that need to be considered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e979	This is in the extension of the previous query. We know that we're working on a law on land. The Minister for the Environment is now working on it. Isn't it time for the Council of State now to contribute to the death of this great local contestant, to listen to the great majority and not just to the Ås Zenterpartie, which is the only party that is now running for the Ski East option? Or is it the case that the Council of State on the framework seriously sees a four-field motorway through Sørmarka, while the Government is at the same time promoting a law of stronger field protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e986	As I said in my previous answer, the assignment is given in relation to a KS1 statement, and I can't understand that there is anything to lose on that the KS1 statement also illuminates an Eastern option. If at any time it's time to build there, it's time to show, but the social cost it represents in relation to other alternatives, it's unreservedly interesting for the Government to get enlightened. The assignment is standing, but it is not said that one should go ahead with planning that option. The KS1 extraction will show you if there are any grounds for doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e991	I have on several occasions given the Council the recognition that she is listening to local decisions and wishes. She claims that she has also done so in this case, but this also means that when the locals take a stand and change their decisions, they change their opinion. I have to say – I drew myself a line before the Tende – that it is quite paradoxical that the same government that will present a separate law on markings, which of course becomes very strict in the handling of protection and intervention, in this case will have determined whether it is possible to build a four-field highway through the mark. I would like as much as I can, encourage you to think about this again, and draw that proposal from KS1, so that progress can be kept.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1000	I have done my best to ensure that the progress of this option is not disrupted. I have received insurance from the State Road Administration that this does not happen, and I stick to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1005	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1010	It's fun to join in adopting another four-field parcel on the E18. Since I live in Knapstad, I want to be one of those who's really going to notice the new couple, and I'm looking forward to that. So this is no sad day for me, as Martin Engeset expressed it. There have been many laps here in the house to make progress on the road. Not least when the current National Transport Plan came from the Bondevik Government – at Minister of Transport Skogsholm from the Left, who wanted to put an end to the whole extension – the Right, Christian People's Party and Left entered in order for the road to be completed after 2015. It was sad. The working party wanted a faster expansion. Then we got new government, new Minister of Transport and new fresh money for road development, which has made it possible to advance the new four-field E18 through Eastfold. I will add that the road users also take a large share of the costs. We have to bring that with us. But then it becomes completely incomprehensible that the Left's representative in the Committee is going out in the newspaper and deeply regrets that the Government is not following up the E18 in Eastfold. That's exactly what it's doing. The government also delivers here. The Minister of Transport will take care of this, and she will be very grateful for it. The alternative to the left, what was that? Yes, it was that completion was to take place after 2015. We were going to live on a road where the drivers paid tolls, but nothing was going to happen in ten years – no plant machinery, no propulsion. It was the Left, Right and Christian People's Party added up to the current National Transport Plan. The working party has ambitions to get the road finished long before that. In today's local viewers we read about the last interview on another new trasé, Sekelsten–Momarken, and the council can again cut a new cord. Soon there will be a continuous path. People are happy. They see that a lot has happened after the government change. We can't say nothing's happening. I think, as the Council of State was also concerned, that when we get a new National Transport Plan, we also get an end date, and that it's not too far ahead of us. But then there is also a paradox when the Progress Party in the handling of the case, where we were supposed to earn not to stop, says that they will not deal with this matter, but that they will postpone the matter until the Storting meets again. It cannot be that this is a difficult matter to deal with. We have dealt with this matter – I do not know how many times – and it is nothing new. It's just getting decisions in place, and then it's going to be a new way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1023	In my thirty-year-old work in the Norwegian health care system, I have worked for twenty years in close association with the emergency department at Østfold Hospital. I have agreed to accept countless damages and muddy cities and killed traffic victims from the tribal roads that pass through the county. Some of the things I've seen have forever burned into the retina, and some episodes lie in the subconsciousness and tend to appear when anyone should be in deep sleep. It is therefore with great interest that I have followed and participated in the debate in order to put in place a new four-field E6 and E18 through Østfold. These pathways are Norway’s two most important major inland waterways, two roads that pass through some of the rich areas we have, which are very important both for business and for passenger transport. For a number of years, the population of Eastfold has paid around 6 pst. of the total road charges, but only 1 pst. has returned to the county. And a question is, Is it fair? We have seen that roads, tunnels and bridges have emerged around the district of Norway, where few people live and there is little traffic, and where the payment from Eastfold drivers has been part of the funding base for these projects, while the road network in Eastfold has been severely undersized and in very poor condition. And you ask, what kind of priorities is this? Eastfold has for a long time been treated voicelessly on the roadside, while the county’s drivers have been economically exploited. However, the number of injuries and deaths in the county gradually became so high that even the political majority from District Norway would not dare to go in for the development of four-field E6. But again, the state’s demands for additional payment from the county’s drivers came. Should Eastfold get four-field road, it had to be 50 pst. user payment, was the claim of the majority of the Storting. At the same time, damage and killing continued to enter the emergency room. That the state has later abandoned the promises of a fissure layer and leaves Svinesundsbrua 100 pst. toll-financed is another example of the fact that government authorities are not in a position to trust. The development of E18 through Eastfold is a gruesome example of a lack of overall planning and funding. The distance of about 5.5 miles changes standard innumerable times, to great despair for those who have to use this road. Only now are we going to start building up Krosby–Knapstad, the most trafficked part of this road, and even that does not happen without a new kind of extortion. Now, Østfold has to accept a full 20-year down payment of tolls. Well, I said local initiative! Even after this decision, there will still be uncertainties about three important parcels on the E18, and then I have not mentioned the unresolved problem on the Akershus site. This vigilance and the cynical approach that I experience that Eastfold's people have been subjected to has led me to ask myself the question: What is a human being really worth? What is the price of the majority of politics on a killed person or on one who is being harmed for life? What kind of calculations does the department use? The nation of Norway is in a unique economic situation, but chooses to invest the money abroad. If there is someone who – unlike the Progress Party – fully believes that if more investment is made in road transport, there must be other ways to limit such development than to gamble with the lives and health of road users. I would recommend that the Stortinget vote in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party. It is, in my opinion, indebted to the people of the Norwegian state of Eastfold, not least in respect of those who have been unnecessarily killed and injured in Eastfold traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1042	The Progress Party questions the local will and the local decisions on toll packages and doubts that this is what you really want – I wonder: with what reason? Why does the representative Sandberg suspect the politicians locally that they do not know their own good or do not mean what they decide? All lots are in favour of toll financing for road development, including the Progress Party, if there are alternative routes to the toll road. This is it, on the left. 120. Why, then, does the Advance Party not intervene in this matter? And why doesn't the Progress Party consider alternative ways in all the toll cases? Instead, the Progress Party focuses on a case by case basis on its apparent resistance to tolls – because the resistance does not extend outside this building. Locally, the Progress Party also applies to toll projects when the responsibility is heavy. But they may not know what they're doing, according to the representative Sandberg. The last toll financing proposal for road projects is the head of Moss Progress Party, Ulf Leirstein, also a member of the Financial Committee at Stortinget. He said to Moss Avis here this spring that he would suggest to the Stortinget to investigate a tunnel between Moss and Horten – which we will deal with later today – financed by using the ferry ticket price as a bomb charge. He didn't get through to it in his big group. Nevertheless, the press must be large on the Advance Party’s big group to change policy in this area, especially when the chairman of the Transport Committee, Per Sandberg, also calls for toll projects, including toll projects. in Fosen and in Fredrikstad, as the last ones we've heard of. What's the Progress Party actually standing for in the toll case?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1051	Let me first get to grips with what the representative Eye had to say when she said that we would postpone the matter. She said this was a very simple matter, because there was nothing new here. Then Signe Eye has not read the setting, because it is a joint committee that points out that this is a new way to solve the financing – it is something new. It also says in the proposition, from which I quoted in my previous post, that the general rule is that the period of notice is to be limited to 15 years. So that's something completely new. But it doesn't surprise me, as I also said in my main post, that there are new creative ideas and violations of Norwegian laws and main rules to thin the drivers more and more. I would like to ask that representatives attach something to me that I have not done, that you stand almost on this pulpit and promote lies about those who are signed. The undersigned has not in any context, at any time, encouraged the use of tolls. I have not done so at any time, so I will have asked myself that. But it just goes into the range of lack of arguments, and then you have to figure out arguments to get the attention away from your own casualty, to get the attention away from the fact that it's the state that's responsible. I don't suspect any local politicians for anything, at least not in terms of competence, or not to have competence, but when I travel around, either as a single party representative, or as head of the Transport and Communications Committee, or with the entire Committee, all the signals I get – from SV, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party – are that it is the state that is going to finance. But when the state doesn't, we feel that we're being forced to do it. It's not to suspect any local politicians for anything, because I think there's actually consensus in my committee that the state should finance more roads. I actually think that's the majority for that in the sitting government as well. But it doesn't happen, and then someone has to attack the Progress Party to clear their own conscience and get a good night's sleep.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1060	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox Case No. 23 was dealt with together with case No. 17. [[Food, see page 3720]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1078	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five replies be given within the allocated speaking time after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1087	Now we've been moving along the road for a long time, so it's time to get up in the air if we can pass the security controls! That is the starting point for this matter, a proposal by Mr Tenden and Mr Dørum, who, in my opinion, have received a very high degree of support from the Committee. It suggests, through all the evidence both here from the house and otherwise, that there is something that is not working properly with the security controls at Norwegian airports. There is a joint committee that joins large sections of the comments. I'll go through them. The starting point, of course, is that we need security controls to stop those to be stopped, but at the same time an overall committee is concerned that passengers and employees are treated with respect and courtesy in the context of the necessary security controls. The Committee has noted that many and strong reactions to the non-incident in winter led to demands for better training and procedures. The Minister for Transport wrote to the Committee in a letter dated 30 May: ‘Safety check and service can be seen as two contradictions. Safety is a service that necessarily involves actions that can be perceived as suspicious and partly unpleasant. There is a continuous international process to develop better technical solutions in this area. All operators in aviation are expected to have a positive experience of travelling. This requires all actors to consider what can be done to make the journey as positive as possible, while ensuring aviation safety.’ This, of course, ends up with an overall committee. We have also noticed that in the case of security controls on employees, pilots and cabin crew, a cooperation committee consisting of a wide range of actors, including the Air Safety Authority, Avinor, the airlines, SAS Ground Services, etc., has been set up to deliver a comprehensive report to the Air Operator by 1 July 2007 with short and slightly longer term proposals for action. It is essential for both social and aviation safety to ensure access to aeroplanes and aerodromes in a way that makes travellers feel safe. The danger of terrorist acts, in particular air traffic, remains high and gives rise to high levels of vigilance and comprehensive security measures at aerodromes. Safety controls on passengers, flight crew and staff are part of these security measures and at the same time the most visible measures. Crew and passenger security controls have been extended many times in their content and scope. The Committee considers that a broad review of the implementation of such control measures at Norwegian aerodromes is now necessary. We are aware that the framework and arrangements for security measures must follow international agreements and cooperation. It's good that we do it, and so should it. The Committee also points out that, in the period since 11 September 2001, new and more comprehensive security measures have been introduced, including with regard to security controls on air passengers and aircrew. However, the Committee is not convinced that an extension of this type of action in the transport sector is part of desirable social development and is now fundamentally negative to any further increase in security controls if the level of threats does not warrant it. The Committee would point out that the work on limiting the scope of security controls has to be carried out on an international arena, as Mr Navarsete recently did in the meeting with European colleagues. The Committee supports the initiatives of the State Councils. Yesterday we heard that Avinor launched the need for NOK 3 billion for new security measures. I believe that the Council of State does not automatically approve this, but continues to work for international acceptance that Norway with its 46 airports, deciduous most airports per. Does not require the same measures at all of our short-haul aerodromes as at the Gardermoen. The Committee wants safe aerodromes, but at the same time a passenger service with which to live.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1118	There's a lot of commitment here. A whole committee is engaged. I also think it's a local commitment and a regional commitment. We want to tell you about and do something about the situation we have at our airports. It is very difficult to balance requirements for safety and good service – I think we all agree on that. The question is now – and I have registered that the Council of State has gone out and signaled that she wants to work for this – whether we have come to the point where people are satisfied, now it is enough. It is such that a democratic and peaceful society such as Norway may now choose a different course and no longer let itself be pressured to plague the travellers, no longer let themselves be pushed by a threat picture. That is what they want, the extreme groupings that are the cause of the necessary measures — they want to spread fear and arrogance. As I said, I am aware of the involvement of the Council of States, and I am aware that there is a cooperative body set up. At least the Party considers that measures should already be taken to minimise delays and, in particular, to improve the service provided by the case-rapporteur. That is why the Progress Party has put forward proposals to that effect, and I also take the opportunity to put forward the proposals in the vote. It has to be possible, for example, to look at the solutions they are considering in Germany, such as eliminating people from what sex they have. Many of the feedback I receive is very extensive in the treatment of women in this type of control. They feel almost harassed. It must be possible to assess whether to have a different type of lock for those employed and working there. There are many who eventually feel like a parody when you put such strict restrictions on what you can bring into the terminal – and then you can just pick out what you have to have been deprived of once you have entered the terminal. It is also a paradox that you let suspicious people through, and then you empty the terminal, and all the passengers are standing in front of the security controls. Then there are thousands of people in front of security controls, and in case someone had a different agenda, it is easy to see what had happened in this queue. So I think we're all concerned about doing something, and the Progress Party – and I – believe that we can already put some leads in place, so that we can change the practices that underlie.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1133	Could the President consider the representative Sandberg to be taking up both proposal No. 1 and proposal No. Two?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1136	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1143	The representative Per Sandberg has drawn up the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1146	I thought the case spokesperson made this matter nuanced and well presented in relation to what we in the committee were some about, and pointed out what was important. I'm just going to come up with a couple of things. I think what we've seen in the last few months is an improvement in the flexibility of the controls. It has been better, and that there has actually been a somewhat better level of service than it was at first, because then there was considerable irritation and great queues and much trouble in connection with these security controls. But there's still a lot of frustration about having to raise the water bottle before you go through, and then you can buy a new one on the other side – or you can buy a toothpaste tube on the other side. There's a lot of things people don't understand, so there's an absolute need to have the critical distance that the committee here has, that you have to go through it in a proper way -- we don't want any more of this. Obviously, if terrorists want to do something, it doesn't necessarily help to have tough security controls on all people. It will be so advanced from the terrorists' side that it is hardly enough with security in the way we have today. We also have to have a little bit in the back of the head, I thought. So it's that when you're so strict at the airports, and when you're going to get tighter at the ports, what's next? What is this society finally going to be, which the whole way needs to have a set of watchkeeping companies that are going to take care of the different areas? Already this is too big. The attitude of the Committee is that one is negative to proceed with this, but that one should do what the Minister for Transport writes to us in the Committee. We're going to work together on this, we're going to have groups on this, and we're going to work internationally. Then I want to make a final reflection. After ‘9/11’, it is clear that there were many new measures for all of us in Western countries. At the same time, we are now operating in the world with our forces. Fortunately, we have pulled us out of Iraq, but we are with NATO in Afghanistan. I thought that when you have a debate about security controls and security, you should ask yourself whether being involved as a world police force in relation to the US's various measures around, in Iraq and Afghanistan and other places, actually leads to poorer security in Norway. Taking part in such operations that are actually initiated by the United States, but which we join because of NATO, does it create more security in Norway? Or does it create more insecurity? And I also want to remind all of us that we do not have to participate and contribute to spreading the tendency to fear knead against groupings, religions or skin color, etc., which may weaken the image we have of Norway as a peaceful nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1168	I would first of all like to commend the proposers for putting the security controls in focus at the airports, which has raised considerable noise and enquiries to the members of the committee. It is absolutely in the right place to question us by the fact that the monitoring society is sneaking closer and closer to us. In the ultimate sense, we can never secure 100 pst. against the occurrence of the disaster, and then finally there must be an assessment of the extent to which the limit is sufficient in terms of control functions. I am fully aware that here we have an international code to deal with, and I am pleased that the minister has put it in focus. In the Christian People's Party, we are also pleased that a cooperation committee has been set up to assess the security controls at our airports, and to facilitate the smooth implementation of the necessary control procedures for passengers, for employees, for pilots and cabin crew. We also record that the complaint storm that we experienced for some time has now settled down, and that the control procedures operate more smoothly. Less people report that they feel hurt by what's happening at our airports. However, it is very important that we constantly assess the actions we are implementing and ask critical questions as to whether the actions we have taken are optimal or whether adjustments need to be made. I would like to refer to a few articles that were in the Lofot post for some time, and ask the Minister to assess what happened at Leknes airport. One person said that he belonged to Norsk Kartzoologisk Association, which has three members. He actually said that it's just nonsense, but he's made himself an identity card with a picture, with a name and with a date of birth. This card he set up at the airport, and it went perfectly well. He's spent it on several trips. When the paper asks, Avinor says it's okay to only have a card with a picture, name and birth number – without anyone controlling the birth number. But when we, as big business representatives, bring our official cards, they say, "No, you don't get through, because there's no date of birth here." Here's some holes in the system that I don't understand. So I can make a card with the right name, but with a completely random date of birth, just make sure that the ticket and the card have the same name, it's okay – there is no official confirmation that that is the case. I believe that the security measures you have need to be assessed, and you have to be willing to adjust if there is something you need to adjust. I believe that in this area we need an adjustment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1181	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, and then I would like to say that, of course, it is very important to ensure aviation safety in such a way that travellers can feel safe, that they do not experience undesirable situations, and that Norway follows up international obligations. Therefore, safety controls on passengers and employees at aerodromes are an important tool to enhance aviation safety and security. However, the background to this proposal for a representative is that many people feel that security controls are perceived as meaningless and offensive. We should take this seriously. There are many examples of how security controls are perceived by people. We've heard some examples here today. Air carrier personnel experience a physical inspection prior to boarding the aeroplane, while they have access from the aircraft flight cockpit to potential weapons, such as: fire axe. Both staff and travellers are deprived of potential cutting agents that are knifed in the security controls, while at several airports it is fully possible to carry knives from the restaurant within the security area. Such examples are hard to explain the logic of. I have, on some occasions, been confronted with these kinds of concrete examples, without any good answers. A simple improvement in the last example is to carry out the checks immediately before boarding the aeroplane, as it is at a number of aerodromes in other countries. The left will point out that some travellers feel hurt during the checks. I have experienced a little boy who had to take out everything he had in packed pockets right in front of a long queue. He seemed both anxious and nervous and desperately cried out at his mother. By just taking the boy a few meters away from the queue in a friendly way, this could have been less offensive to the little boy. Some travellers have expressed the view that they see some inspectors as rude and that unnecessary body searches are carried out. As Per Sandberg's representative said, this is especially true of some women. Often there are also service areas missing after the checks, so that travellers who need to wear shoes, belts, jackets or packing bags do not have access to tables and chairs. This is unfortunate, especially for passengers with disabilities. Finally, I record the establishment of a collaborative committee of 15 associations/organisations to deliver a comprehensive report on 1 July. I also notice that the Minister for Transport has had contact with European colleagues in order to limit the scope of security controls. These are, of course, very affordable measures, but the left is impatient. We believe that we should move forward more quickly. This should preferably happen before the summer, with the hectic travel activity that is then. I therefore challenge the Minister for Transport to the following: When can you see a change in routines and service levels at Norwegian airports? And will she take any concrete steps before the holidays and the big travel business? Aspects to be considered are measures that can establish and maintain a high level of service for travellers, ensure the working conditions of the flight crew, so that they do not appear unlucky and bureaucratic, and avoid control measures which, in their performance, are infringing. It should definitely be possible to combine security measures and controls in a good way that also provides service to passengers. This should, in the view of the Left, be possible prior to the joint holiday.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1199	The Tenden and Dørum representatives ask the Government in its proposal to initiate a review of the implementation of aerodrome security controls, in order to ensure the best possible level of flight safety and increase the level of service to all passengers. I am pleased that the Committee underlines the value of security control measures as essential for both social security and aviation security. I record that the committee is busy treating passengers and adding passengers with respect and care in connection with necessary security controls at our aerodromes. I am also busy with this and have registered many and strong reactions to the implementation of the security controls over a long period of time. As the case spokesman quoted from my letter to the committee, I believe that insurance control and service can be seen as two contradictions. Security is a service that necessarily involves actions that may be perceived as suspicious and unpleasant. There is a continuous international process to develop better technical solutions in this area. I am meeting both my Nordic colleagues and the German Minister for Transport, who now has the leadership of the EU, to raise this issue. In the EU, too, this is a matter to be discussed, and one has decided to postpone phase 2 on cabin baggage size until 6 May 2008, while the requirement is also to be included in a new and better impact assessment during the year. I would like to remind you that security controls are a consequence of the EEA Agreement and decisions in the EU, which have consequences for us. The Air Safety Authority has expressed an increased focus on training for all involved, both addendum, pilots, cabin crew and security inspectors in ‘human factors’ and interaction across aviation disciplines. It has been a change to the better, both physical and when it involves handling from the added side. In the case of security controls on the added persons, pilots and cabin crew, a case already focuses on the matter through the establishment of a cooperation committee which, by 1 July 2007, will provide a comprehensive report to the Director of Aviation with proposals for action in the short and slightly longer term, in order to improve the situation. Of course, the measures proposed must be within the framework of what international agreements and cooperation oblige us to do. So the work is already well under way, and I expect the Air Safety Authority to involve all of these attachments, in order to find solutions within the current legislation that could lead to a more flexible implementation of current security control measures. I have full confidence that the aviation oversight in the follow-up to the cooperation committee report will focus on the effective and professional implementation of security control measures for all – passengers as well as adding, pilots and cabin crew. I have recently met with the Norwegian Flyer Association and have great sympathy for the fact that a group that has been given great trust and who is responsible for the safety of everyone on board an aircraft responds to their examination from the outside to the inside of the security check several times a day. I want to bring with me their input into the further work. In the case of the introduction of enhanced safeguards, we are bound by international rules. We therefore need to work within these frameworks to get an impact on national views. At the same time, I agree with the Committee when it expresses scepticism as to whether the extent of this type of action in the transport sector is part of the desired social development. I am also concerned that any additional enhancements of the security control must be subject to thorough impact assessments, which will also take into account the threat level. I want to continue the dialogue with my colleagues in other countries to express these views. When it comes to Avinor's plans, which they have recently submitted, they are largely concerned with the extended safe zone at airports. The previous government ordered a report from a consulting company recommending a 70-metre protection zone. It has now been converted to 40 metres of fused zone, after thorough assessments by the Air Safety Authority. Nevertheless, it will incur considerable costs, and there are these costs that are largely involved in the distribution that Avinor has provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1225	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3721]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1246	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1255	Document No 8:82 and 8:86 for 2006-2007 are concerned with proposals to explore a tunnel between Horten in Westfold and Moss in Eastfold to replace the current ferry link between these two cities and the counties. In Document No: 8:82 it is proposed that this project should be identified as a holiday relief project in cooperation with local authorities, including possible funding solutions, while Document No. 8:86 it is proposed that this project be fully financed by the State. It is a unanimous committee that promotes the attitude towards Stortinget. Proposals for a new link between Eastfold and Westfold have been discussed and evaluated several times in recent years. In a letter from the Ministry of 6 June this year on the matter, it is pointed out that the municipality of Borre had already made local decisions in 1987 to establish a fixed road link between Eastfold and Westfold, and that in 1988 the State Road Administration made a report assessing such a cross-linking. The report concluded at that time, for example: that the project was technically and economically feasible and could have significant societal benefits, but that there could also be environmental and operational disadvantages. It was proposed that the project be continued through a road investigation and toll financing was considered relevant. In 1993, not only fixed road connections but also fixed rail links between Eastfold and Westfold were established. The investigation concluded that an external oslof soil link could be socio-economically profitable although it would have limited short-term nutritional effects. Despite all of these investigations, it seems to me that you haven't really gone in more detail and investigated this, and concluded. The Committee has stated in its opinion that we are in favour of a possible further investigation of the matter, but it is important to stress that the municipalities and county councils concerned must take any further initiative to do so and that the Committee has not taken a decision on either the project or any funding. But there may be good reasons to have the project investigated. The Horten-Moss ferry service is the country's most busy ferry service with more than 1.3 million vehicles per year. A large proportion of these are heavy vehicles. The traffic associated with this link constitutes a major environmental and traffic burden for both of these cities. Solubility measurements in Moss in our day show concentrations well above permitted values at some times of the day. Road traffic through the city is a contributing cause. Ferry traffic comes in shock every half hour and contributes to long-distance traffic through cities, especially during rush hours and during holiday seasons. In both municipalities, there is ongoing investigation into traffic solutions for local and transit traffic. An alternative link in the tunnel or over bridge would eliminate ferry traffic from the centre of these cities and contribute to better traffic management over the fjord and cities. This can in itself be a good reason to establish a new connection. A perhaps more important reason why I think such a project might be interesting to investigate is the desire to bind the country closer together in this part of the country and facilitate trade, movement and regional development across the fjord, for which the ferry is shut down today. Half an hour by ferry may seem small, but it is long enough that the few take a ferry over the fjord to work, shop or avail themselves of the offers there. You better travel along the fjord. I would like to point out the opportunities for a new link to establish a common labour, housing and service market in these regions, and to create growth and new businesses in this area that are developing into a suburb of Oslo. An interesting part of any investigation will therefore be to look at the impact of such a relationship on the development of society in the region. The Committee has pointed out that a possible further investigation should consider previous studies of road and rail links and the possibility of also considering bridge options. I record that in Denmark, politicians at Jutland want a new bridge over Kattegat, from Kalundborg over Samsø to Hov, to link Zealand and Jutland – an interesting project with the same perspectives, namely to connect the country more closely and to facilitate closer interaction and regional development. But here they want a bridge. We have many tunnels in this country, which provides high costs for development, operation and maintenance. It would be interesting to consider a bridge alternative on the route, which could also be a landmark in Oslofjorden. According to the above-mentioned letter from the Department, Vestfold County has requested in its decision of 26 April 2007 a status report for the subsea link between Eastfold and Westfold, and Eastfold County Council and the Regional Council of Vestfold, Buskerud and Telemark have asked for the cross-link to be established. It would therefore be natural for all the relevant and interested municipalities and counties to have this status report submitted, and for this to be followed up by a local assessment of any further investigation of the case. I will follow further developments in the matter with interest. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1289	Already in the early 1980s, some local politicians began to dream of a holiday-free connection between Eastfold and Westfold. The first political decision was taken in 1987, and the background is, of course, the major traffic challenges that this link had already brought about at that time, and which it is not least causing today. As stated in the statement, 1,3 million vehicles are using the Horten-Moss ferry every year, resulting in heavy traffic loads, safety loads, noise loads and, in particular, environmental impacts on the two communities. The challenge has been that the process has taken time, and despite various investigations it has never been concluded that construction should take place, either by tunnel or anything else. It is really a bit polite in April as the county representative to agree to a decision to initiate processes to find out the status, and today, in June, as the council representative, to take part in seeing an overall committee and a total accumulation behind a desire to move forward with a possible investigation. So it's a happy day, and I think it's nice that the committee is so clear that this is something they'll consider to be a priority. It's important for the whole region. But there's a certain difference between these two proposals. The main difference is that the proposal of the Progress Party is based on a system between Westfold and Eastfold and not necessarily between Horten and Moss. Another difference is the funding. The case rapporteur was clear and clear that one of the advantages of a continental link between Eastfold and Westfold would be a common housing and service market. I agree. But it becomes much more difficult to create such a common housing, service and labour market if you set up a customs post in the middle of the bridge or in the middle of the tunnel. There will then in itself be a barrier – a barrier that we already have in many ways in relation to ferry traffic today – that will lead to the development of this common region and the development of these common labour, housing and service markets at least taking much more time and will be more problematic than if one had financed this, as the Progress Party will, with state resources. It's an important project. There's a lot of traffic load, and it'll be very important for these regions to get this really. That's a good step forward. It is a good day for the inhabitants of Horten and Moss, and it is a good day for the inhabitants of Westfold and Eastfold. I find it interesting to note that the committee has developed the brewing option. After the debates earlier today and in so far as other tunnel debates are concerned, I understand that the scepticism of tunnel construction in this country is on its way. I note it with interest and look forward to the investigation of a link between Eastfold and Westfold also including an assessment of a bridge alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1304	First of all, I would like to pay tribute both to the Committee on Transport and Communications and to the rapporteur on the matter for rapid and effective treatment. There was a lot of work to do to achieve a great deal of treatment before the Storting went apart and took a break, so there should be no doubt about where the Storting is relative to this question. I'm glad, so all the favors of it. It is probably true that the case has a relatively long history, but it is only now that one in a way gets a greater weight into the project by bringing the matter into the national Parliament and getting a preliminary assessment of an investigation mission through this treatment. I'm very happy about that. At the beginning of March this year, Eastfold Right, Moss Right, Westfold Right, and Horten Right took the initiative in such a case. Westfold County later followed up by its own decision, and Eastfold County did the same with a similar decision earlier this week. As you can see, this case now has a lashing in elected bodies on both sides of the fjord, represented by the Westfold county council and the Eastfold county council. I am very happy about that too, because it is a strength for the matter in the further work. It is true that the case has been investigated at the level of detail in the past, and the Council of State letter shows that the report carried out in 1998 concluded that the project was technically and economically feasible and that it was considered appropriate to finance the tolling project at levels with or below the assumed fare level on the ferries. That's why we on the right have taken this as a so-called holiday redemption project. We are well aware that the Moss-Horten ferry service concession expires in 2016. It is clear that this is a large project, which requires thorough investigations, and which is certainly technically demanding and requires long planning time and also long construction time. But I think we should have such ambitions, if the investigation becomes as positive as it was in the past and it can be confirmed by a more thorough investigation, that such a link over or under the fjord with or without the railway can be completed in 2016. That should be realistic. Several have pointed out that this is the country’s most busy ferry service. There is reason to stress that such a project will have a number of positive effects. It'll almost be a cheek egg. Firstly, both the cities and communities of Moss and Horten – on both sides of the fjord – will have significant environmental and traffic gains. Today the situation is such that traffic takes a traffic choker on these communities much of the day seven days a week 365 days a year. Secondly, such a project will link the east side and the west side of the Oslofjorden as a labour and housing market, with all the positive effects it will have on growth and prosperity in these two fantastic counties and the other Eastern region. Thirdly, such a project will ensure a significant reduction in traffic traffic through Oslo and will provide a much easier link for all the freight traffic that will continue southwards towards Sweden and the continent or eastwards towards Sweden, Finland and Eastern Europe. I consider this treatment and the setting on which it is based to be an important part of it. If the investigation, when it is available, confirms what we believe and assume and hope, it will in many ways be so, I think, that the table is catching. Then you'll be past the point of no return. Then it will be impossible for anyone to go against such a good and well-founded project. So I'm eagerly waiting for the investigation to begin, and I hope this is the beginning of the realization of an old dream and a great vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1327	It is very good that a joint committee is positive to construct a tunnel or bridge connection between Moss and Horten, or Eastfold and Westfold. We're talking about one of the country's most busy ferry service as it is today. When we're going to drive, we're going to plan driving time based on the distance we're going to drive. But if we're going to cross Moss, any day, we're going to have to add that it says it's still. Then we can use the time we stand still, to look at the houses, look at the people who live in Moss, and we can evaluate different other sides of Moss center. But that's not always what we want when we're going on our drive. That is why it is good for Moss and for Horten, or for the whole connection, if a different solution is chosen between Eastfold and Westfold, as proposed by the Progress Party. It will help meet the traffic challenges both in Moss and Horten. Already in 1988 it was an investigation that said this was technically and economically possible. It's good to take with you. But then we now have some environmental and operational challenges, which the report of the State Road Administration concluded. It's good that we now have to move on. I think it is gratifying that an overall committee also draws up the railways in relation to the climate and environmental challenges we are facing. Then the future will show if it becomes bridge, tunnel, road or road/railway. At least we have to promise that we who represent this region will wait impatiently. We have to wait, because we need to reach the professional conclusions. But the impatience we must promise is there!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1338	It will be in the two documents. 8 put forward proposals to eliminate aspects of a possible fixed link between Eastfold and Westfold. In reply to the committee, I have done well for the status of the matter. As can be seen from the answer, the Staatsvesen vägvesen autumnen 2007 will present a summary and assessment of the case to the county authorities. I have noticed that the Committee considers it natural that ‘all the Member States concerned and interested parties are brought to the attention of the matter’. I would also like to point out, as I have also done in reply to the committee, that a so-called KS1, i.e. must be implemented. quality assurance at the early stage of the plan, if local authorities would like to start planning in relation to the planning and building laws. KS1 applies to all State investment projects in excess of 500 million. kr, and shall be carried out on behalf of the Ministry of Trade, in this case the Ministry of Transport, and the Ministry of Finance. The first step in a KS1 will be to create a concept evaluation, a so-called KVU. the need for such a fixed connection and different options shall be addressed. The Committee has requested in the configuration that broaching options be included in any further arrangement, and has also referred to previous arrangements where the railway connection was established. I would like to point out that KS1 is just an appropriate travel tool to make assessments of different options. It is this KVU that will be subject to quality assurance, KS1, in an external consulting environment. A KS1 process will take nearly two years. However, this will not prolong the overall planning time corresponding to it. KS1 provides clarifications that make planning according to planning and building laws easier and faster. It will not be possible to clarify this matter before the national transport plan for the period 2010-2019 is submitted, according to the information I have received from the State Road Administration, even when it concerns their progress plan and the number of projects already in line for KS1 in this area. Finally, in this context, I would like to stress that KS1 is not an instrument of priority. KS1 is intended to serve as a basis for selecting the concept of large investment measures and deciding which one should go further in planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1353	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1356	As we can see from the committee setting, the plans for a road tunnel between Horten and Moss go back to 1988 and the main airfield. At that time, the plans were set aside for the Oslofjord connection, the tunnel under Drøbaksundet, which was actually launched as a compensation for adding the airport to Gardermoen. Now what's known to be going on a few laps before that would happen. Nevertheless, the Oslofjord connection was opened in 2000, but rationally and in relation to the value of transport policy, it is between Horten and Moss that the cross link under Oslofjord should have gone. When the Transport Committee now wants a new investigation of road and railway tunnels under the fjord, it opens up completely new perspectives for transport policy on both sides of the Oslo Earth. The fjord has traditionally been the linkway between Eastfold and Westfold, but in our time it has been rather a barrier than a communication channel. A road tunnel or underground railway tunnel creates new regional development opportunities throughout the region, from Grenland via Oslo to Østfold. I would also assume that the airport triangle, the Gardermoen–Torp–Rygge, and new double tracks for the railway on both sides of the fjord also open perspectives for communication, housing, employment and economic development across the area. I have noticed that the County Council of Westfold and Eastfold and the Regional Council of Buskerud, Telemark and Vestfold have asked for a status report and a new assessment of the cross-link between Horten and Moss, and therefore everything should be in place to ensure that the link is now placed in its proper context, namely the national transport plan. Without prejudging a new investigation, I believe that such a cross-link can be financed by tolls. The only thing that could then thwart this project is either insurmountable technological and economic problems or that the Progress Party would have a decisive influence on the transport planning on both sides of the Oslo Earth. As the Progress Party receives almost allergic reactions every time they hear about tolls, we are hoped that the local elections in the autumn will not put an end to any further planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1365	This is in many ways a somewhat strange matter, where two almost identical proposals have been dealt with at the same time in the Committee. I think the committee has handled this in an excellent way. It has looked at what is important, not concentrated on the disagreements in the two proposals, because they exist, but on the important thing, to explore the possibilities of building a road link between two of the most central Eastern states, which will be able to establish the mutual and common business and labour market that several have talked about here, in a quite different way from today. Today, of course, there is a lack of infrastructure, but also a lack of history of cooperation between the two states. There are not many issues where the government parties come forward with proposals from the opposition to meet in Stortinget. I take that as the first sign that this project is also important for the position, and it is a pleasure to note that the representative Gullvåg from Vestfold is enthusiastic and joyous over a Right-wing proposal. I also use the opportunity to arrest my two co-representatives from Vestfold, both Anders Anundsen and Steinar Gullvåg, for their history – there has been a planned tunnel here long before 1987. As early as 1961, Road Manager Alf Torp told us that when the ferry capacity was blown up, it had to be built into a secured bridge tunnel. I don't know what a anchored bridge tunnel is, maybe it's stronger tunnels than those you build in our days. I believe that today's partial blessing here in the Storting of getting an investigation will trigger great local political activity in the respective county councils and current municipalities on both sides of the fjord. Of course, this is just a tiny step on the way. But what's important is that there's been a joint committee, and that's how it's very promising. What is a little bit of joy is what I perceive from the Council of State as a very long investigation period, which, as far as I can understand, brings the investigation beyond the next planning time in the National Transport Plan. But, as I said, it was thought already in 1961. The Eastern folds and the Western folds are patient people waiting for the future to bring them together.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1376	The President takes the liberty of recalling the time of the evening. With the arrangements we have for further debates now, we will not be finished until early. 2, with at least half an hour's voting then, so it's an advantage to have debates on the issues on which there is a disagreement in the committee, and not on unanimous voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1380	I'm not going to help extend the debate much in that perspective, but you're going to listen to those who have lived longer than yourself, and it was kind of nice to hear the representative fleet saying that the matter actually has roots all the way back to 1961. Then it may be time to do something, and therefore it is good that we have the matter. What made me have to take the floor was that I was very optimistic when I was here and made my first post. Then I became a little more pessimistic after the Council of State made its contribution, because I understood it so that the Council of State assumes that this will not be a current project to get into the National Transport Plan from 2010. That means that we have to wait until 2014, which at least makes the Right Level of ambition totally unrealistic in terms of time perspective and implementation. So I hope that the Council of State will press for this KS1 process to take less than two years, and facilitate further pressure from the State Road Service to enable this to be brought into the NTP from 2014. I have confidence that the Council of State will contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1387	Only a small additional comment from my page. There is a number of projects in the national transport plan to be completed, projects in the final planning period, which, after the previous government introduced a quality assurance system in the early stages – KS1 – have carried out much additional planning work by the State Road Administration. This means that, in addition to its work on collecting the necessary basic material, work will be carried out by an external consultancy company, which will then carry out an independent analysis. It goes without saying that this takes time. There is already a large amount of project queued to be managed, and this project will now come up without being cured by the action program. So if I'm going to press for this, it means that other projects that are associated with high expectations, and that are already in the action program, then they may need to be pushed out. For a government council, it's not so easy for a man to lift things off his hat. Then you also have to look at what kind of decisions Stortinget has already made, and what consequences this will have for others. So what I've been trying to be honest about here is that – yes, of course we're going to get hold of this project, and of course I've registered a collective committee's attitude to it. But we also need to make sure that, as I said, there is a queue of projects and that a KS1 extraction will take time. It does. About two years is what is already outlined from the Road Service in relation to those processes. And it doesn't apply to this project less than other projects. But as I said, of course, I take with me the attitude that the committee has in the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1402	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 25-digit number [[See page 3721]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1421	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3721]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1438	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no loopholes, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1445	: The Committee agrees with the proposers behind the proposal for a representative in Document No. 8:62, Olemic Thommessen, Sonja Irene Sjøli and Jan Tore Sanner, in that good social security schemes have contributed to freedom of choice and equality in the family and in the workplace. In the case of the proposal to propose different models for the change in the people's rights to birth money, regardless of the six-month rule in relation to succeeding children when children are born at short intervals, a majority in the Committee rejects it. I assume that the various parties will do their best to get their views on the matter. The average age of one's first child has risen. Many families want to have their second child after short intervals. Some people feel that they have to go out and be active for six new months in order to earn a new right to parental leave. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that each family must decide for themselves whether they want to be active between two childbirths, when there are less than 24 months between pregnancy, while at the same time ensuring that they are entitled to parental leave as at the previous birth. Those who, in any case, are at home between two childbirths without having worked out new dishes, then experience that even father loses his rights, because his rights are linked to the fact that mother has our work. So the introduction of a sibling's bonus can bring benefits to both mother and father and children. Sibling bonus will increase the freedom of choice and flexibility when it comes to how young children's parents organise their everyday lives while their children are young. Of course, the Christian People's Party is concerned that father should spend more time with the children. The Christian People's Party has been involved in the government's initiative to extend the father's quota from four to six weeks. The Stoltenberg government has no proposal for an extension. The Bondevik II government has improved the rights of fathers, and we have followed up this work on Stortinget after we left the government offices. We are now waiting for the rain to follow in this work. I have noticed that one of the arguments the department uses against the proposal is that those who are not working and have children get a one-time benefit of NOK 33 500 per person. a child. The Christian People's Party would like to increase the single-entry benefit by birth and adoption, so that this group too can get out better. The Christian People's Party and the Left have a common suggestion in the setting where we go in to ensure the right to parental leave as at the previous birth when there are less than 24 months between pregnancy. Subsidizedly, we support the Right's proposal to eliminate different models. The Christian People's Party has programmable sibling bonus, and we don't think we need to get out to conclude. However, since we do not have a majority in favour of this, we support the right's proposal subsidiaryly. I would like to include the proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Left in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1464	The representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1467	Those of us who are young children's parents today are wonderfully privileged. We have a parental leave scheme that is unique from an international perspective. People from other European countries come to Norway and the Scandinavian countries to look at our arrangements. From the outside, it is seen as an economic wonder that it is possible to have the world’s highest professional participation among women, while Norwegian women give birth to more children than any other woman in Europe. This would not have been possible without good welfare arrangements. In addition, we can demonstrate with conviction that our good welfare arrangements for young children’s parents, such as parental and kindergartens, contribute to increased value creation, precisely because it allows women to combine jobs and care for young children. Today's maternity leave system is good, but it also has its weaknesses. However, the Labour Party is convinced that the introduction of a sibling bonus will not contribute to the improvement of the parental leave scheme. We believe that today's regulations already take into account a short period of time between births. Paragraphs 14 to 6 of the Law on Social Security provide as a condition for entitlement to parental death that the beneficiary must have been active for at least six of the last 10 months before birth, but it has an extended understanding of the condition of professional activity. Among other things, periods in which a living allowance is provided in the form of sick leave, parental leave or unemployment benefit are treated in the same way as those in the form of an occupational activity under this provision. It implies receiving parental leave for the first child, counting on the benefit basis of the next child. Therefore, the beneficiary may have a period of unpaid leave of up to four months between births without losing parental rights for the next child. Therefore, under current legislation, women do not have to go to work for six months between births in order to be entitled to a new period. For the red-green government, it is a goal to facilitate that fathers can take more part in the care of young children. We believe it serves all the parties, and most of all the children, who get the opportunity to spend a lot of time with both parents. If the parents share the leave more equally, the problem of a lack of vesting time will not arise. For us, it is important to stimulate a trend towards greater sharing of leave. A sibling bonus will have the opposite effect. The scheme is tailor-made for mothers who take out most of the leave themselves, and who continue on unpaid leave until the next birth. When mother decides to stay at home for long periods, there will be restrictions on father's ability to charge paid leave. I therefore believe that this will help to strengthen today's traditional gender role pattern, where mother takes the longest leave and father works as much as before he had a child. The Labour Party will warn against schemes that stimulate women to stay at home for a long time and weaken their rights and position in the labour market. If we're going to get on with equality between men and women, we're going to be more equal at home. While women are at home and care for young children, men from women rage on the career path, and women are parked in wage development – despite women being able to distinguish with both better grades and higher education than their men. The Labour Party cannot support proposals which, firstly, discriminate against men's ability to be more with their children and which, secondly, would weaken women's rights in the labour market. That is why we are voting against a proposal on sibling bonus.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1495	Right-wing opinion is very important to facilitate good population growth in our country. In our belief in the possibilities of life, we believe that children are wanted – for themselves, for their parents and the nearest and for the community as a whole. This of course implies that every society must make it possible, in the best possible way, to make arrangements for having children to become a natural and affordable part of life. The right is therefore concerned with good arrangements for the families of young children. We believe that there is a need for organisation, which is the background to the proposal we have put forward. Norwegian women are engaged in education and professional participation. This explains why Norwegian women are still older when the first child comes. Families are then often in a life situation where they have large financial liabilities in the form of housing and study debts. At the same time, financial liabilities have often been set up on the basis of two incomes. The need for economic stability for this group is therefore felt to be very important, and a strong reduction in income can have major consequences, even when it is only valid for a few months. In the right, it is unreasonable to demand that these women, who contribute great value creation in society, do not provide the flexibility that is often needed in a phase of life in which the time frame, financial obligations and the challenges of the role of care are perceived as burdensome. These women are strongly motivated for participation, and we do not find any basis for claiming that the flexibility we want to introduce here is neither anti-equality nor does father's role in child care. Being out of work a few years of a long professional life is probably a good investment for many rather than mastering a busy everyday life when the combination home and work become a reality again. We believe that there should be a little greater roughness in relation to a relatively small group of families who have children at short intervals. We want to give a clear signal that we want women with high levels of education to be able to have many children as well. Having children late in life has both positive and negative sides. It is positive to have children at a time when it is desired, and adult parents often have maturity in relation to the care they enter. The negative sides may be that you experience pregnancy and birth as a greater physical stress, and we also know that the danger of having children with special challenges is increasing. In the event of a rapid new pregnancy, we see it as a good investment both in health and in the family that mother should not be pressured into work in order not to lose the right to parental leave. If you get the first kids late in life, it's also natural that children number two and three come at short intervals, considering that the biological clock sets its limits. We believe an offensive family policy must be to deal with the fact that women today have children later in life, and that they therefore have children at short intervals. We cannot understand, as is claimed by the government parties, that women end up on the kitchen bench or get weakened rights and worse positions in the labour market by not getting out of work a few months between two births. I'll bring this up to the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1519	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the proposal to which he referred. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 27. [[See page 3722]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1537	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3722]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1553	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1562	With effect from 1 July, today's slot machines will be history. We will then go from having one of Europe's most liberal gambling regimes to a very restrictive system. With the exception of the Advance Party, all the parties participated in a decision of the Stortinget in June 2003 to ban today’s vending machines and replace them with a game offer directed by Norsk Tipping. The background to the decision at the time was the sharp increase in the use of machines. During the period of the Bondevik government, the gaming of vending machines exploded. In 2001, sales amounted to around 8 billion kroner. In 2005, it had reached a staggering 28 billion dollars a year. In parallel with the growth of gambling, social problems increased dramatically. During the same four years, no action was taken to curb spillage. Instead, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left passively put in place and waited for the government attorney to win in the trial proceedings about the introduction of the Norwegian Typing game monopoly, which the Christian People's Party and the other two government parties had been passed in the Stortinget. But as the Christian People's Party left the government offices, there was a total turnaround in the party's politics. They turned their backs on the conciliation they had taken the seas for. The Christian People's Party allowed the autoplay to increase from 8 billion to 28 billion dollars in its reign. Now the party says they want a total ban. Faced with questions about why they mean it now, the Christian People's Party says that it's because they've gained more knowledge of the social problems. It's not true. The knowledge was there when they were in government, and it can be documented. The whole of Norway’s legal proceedings on Norwegian Typing’s automatic monopoly is based on a thorough documentation of the social problems the vending machines have created. Nevertheless, the Christian People’s Party and the other government partners did not engage. Only when there was a new government in 2005, did the measures finally come to a halt. A banknote ban was introduced, which has had a great impact. Didn't the Christian People's Party and the former government comrades when they were in government know that the game-dependent put on 200-notes after 200-notes? The nightkeeping of vending machines is introduced to ensure that no one is standing all night playing. Had the Christian People's Party closed its eyes and ears to the tragic stories of fathers or mothers who let their children sleep in the car while they sailed all night in front of the vending machines? Labelling, levying, more research, support to the addicts and related organisations are other actions implemented. Why didn't the Christian People's Party do any of this when they sailed into government? Can the reason for not doing anything be the fear of losing the case before the EFTA Court? In that case, today’s government has shamed this fear. The Red-Green Government was able to win out in the EFTA Court in parallel with the implementation of a number of measures. With effect from 1 July, today's vending machines will be banned and removed. From 1 January next year, Norwegian Typing game terminals shall be introduced. Nevertheless, there is a great difference between what today's government does, and the Christian People's Party decided. State Council Giske has given Norwegian Tipping notice of much stricter rules than the Hvarstad Haugland provided. The games that are similar to today's vending machines will be banned, the turnover will be lower, the games will slow down and the banknote ban will be continued. We need to be sure that no new game creates such problems as the old ones. The turnover will be lower than that of Answerstad Haugland, precisely because security has to go ahead. These stricter rules could also have been introduced by the previous government. It didn't. It had to be a government change. Fortunately, the complete reversal and prohibition of the Christian People's Party will not be given a majority. The majority of the population say no, but also the Lottery Authority is against a ban. They believe it will lead to an illegal market, increased crime and continuing social problems. A ban would lead to a dramatic loss of income for volunteering. Those who depend on the help of the Blind Federation, the Cancer Association, the Rescue Company, the Red Cross and Norwegian People's Aid are among those who are being hit. The sport will be hit hardest. Now the Christian People's Party says it's just to find one billion extra on the state budget. It's not that simple. The game policy of the Christian People's Party is not a believer. They didn't have a billion to solve it that way when they put in government. They don't have it today either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1598	In this case, the Progress Party will refer to the Innst. S. No 166 for 2006–2007, which was treated by Stortinget a month ago. In this setting, the Progress Party says that we want decisions to be taken as closely as possible to the citizens of the country, and this means a significant decentralisation of power, where citizens are given greater influence over their own lives than today. We believe that municipalities should not only manage state schemes, but have real influence over policies in areas relating to citizens. Today it is the case that municipalities have a significant right of destination in the case of e.g.: donations, opening hours, alcohol sales from shops, etc. The Progress Party is concerned that the revenue of the voluntary organisations must be taken into account in this matter. If we are to have a local game policy, municipalities must also take increased responsibility for the economy of voluntary organisations. To have a local model, it cannot be based solely on a unilateral state responsibility for these revenues; municipalities must also be on the track. The Progress Party has confidence in local democracy and thus wishes to extend the scope of local policy, so that the policy on slot machines and other gambling should also be determined locally. We therefore put forward the following proposals at the end of the year. S. No 166: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and promote a case for the Stortinget, which states that policies relating to gambling and slot machines are determined by the municipalities. The case must take account of the revenue of the voluntary organisations.» So we wanted a local freedom, that the municipality should be able to say yes to poker, casino, vending machines, etc., or that they should be able to say no to that. Interestingly, this view and proposal also received support from the Right Party. Otherwise, this is the second time that this ratio is taken up by the Progress Party in this session. We also took up a similar proposal in the Inner East. S. No 17 for 2006-2007. One might wonder why the Advance Party cannot jump on the proposals of the Christian People's Party. There's several reasons for that. Firstly, we are concerned with the revenue of the voluntary sector, which is not taken into account in the proposal of the Christian People's Party, but is taken into account in the proposal promoted by the Progress Party in May. Secondly, the proposal of the Christian People's Party is not a proposal for real freedom for the municipalities. It cannot be said that anyone has freedom if they can only decide to go in a more stringent direction, not in a more liberal direction. On this basis, we believe that the proposal should be rejected and expressed in the vote. If the Christian People's Party had really wanted local autonomy in this matter, they have had two opportunities to vote for this earlier in this big session, not later than in May. So a little comment to the party right. I have wondered a little about the fact that in a month's time the party has managed to have two relatively different views on the matter. Int. S. No 166, from which I quoted, you were in favour of full local freedom in game policy, but now this only applies to machines, even though it obviously applied to the whole spectrum of games a month ago. I assume that we will get interesting and instructive information from the representative from the Right on how such a reversal and change of policy is possible in the course of a button month.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1627	It is good that the representative Knudsen should not have to wait long, because he is so excited. Let me start by saying that the vending machines over the last few years have been a politically fairly hot potato. The economic importance of the machines for volunteering on the one hand and the social problems arising from the machines on the other have created conflicts and the need for political action on the other. The understanding of gambling problems and the political climate in this case has been totally reversed since Valgerd Svarstad Haugland took care of the problems and until today. The Bondevik government had to bear great political burdens, which everyone who was at the time, including the Council of State, will remember. Hundreds of e-mails were received from actions, sports teams, choirs and theater groups. Today, the mood has turned upside down, and fortunately later it is not difficult for the Government to find a solution to restrictive policies in this area. The background to the issue we are discussing is, as is well known, the action by many of the country's rapporteurs, led by the Right rapporteur in Drammen. Their claim is a municipal reservation right linked to the placement of vending machines in their own municipality – a system that will in many ways be parallel to the one we currently have for the wine monopoly sales. This requirement is supported by the right. In dealing with the regional communication – and now the representative Knudsen must listen, because now we come to what he was asking for – Right addressed comments formulated by the Progress Party, where a discussion of the extension of the scope of local policy included a note that policy on slot machines and other gambling should be determined locally. This is a liberal formulation, and the starting point was that this theme was wanted to be addressed. So the wording has pleased those who have wanted to misinformed about the Right's views and thus diverted the attention from the heart of the matter. Let it be clear therefore: the right supports the Government's line of restrictive policies based on national framework conditions. The only real difference is that we believe that there is a basis for granting a local municipal reservation right. This is the relationship we believe is possible to combine. Much has happened since Valgerd Svarstad Haugland gained an understanding of the voluntary organisations in order to address the gaming problems. The right continues to feel obliged to assist in providing financial assistance for organisations to adapt to a new economic reality under a stricter automatic regime. However, we have now left legal cases behind, the turnover of the vending machines has reached high levels before they are now on their way back, the ban on banknotes is working, and the vending machines themselves have been developed so that control and more regulation are possible. All these conditions provide for a review of the actual economic realities of voluntary organisations, how to take the transition and how to distribute these funds in the future. The right believes that local democracy is well capable of dealing with local reservation rights. We believe this could be the starting point for good debates on volunteering in municipalities. That doesn't mean we're going in for a full free spin with casinos and poker, or whatever you want. I think that should be clear to most people. We have repeated debates and comments on, for example: Previous document No. of the Progress Party Eight proposals were very clear on what it was about. The fact that, in terms of the investigation, you went into this with other gambling, that's not what it's about in relation to what is the Right's point of view in this proposal. Let me also comment on Gunn Karin Gjul's attack on the Christian People's Party in this matter, as I think, frankly, is a little voice and hits quite badly. Selected Answer City Haugland raised a question that no one else at the time was willing to have his fingers in – perhaps with the exception of SV. She took a very significant political burden when she did. It was quite rough roofs that a total pile, without the Advance Party, stood together to carry through. So out I think you can be; she deserves credit for actually doing it and taking the loads. Then I'll take up right hand suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1648	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1651	I would never have believed, when in 2002 I raised the issue of gambling for the first time, that five years later we would be arguing about who would be most restrictive in relation to gambling. I'm really glad that studies now show that over 70 pst. by the population of Norway, the vending machines want to be removed. I am delighted that there are over 200 rapporteurs who say that they do not want such machines where they are rapporteurs. I take this as an expression that they don't want aggressive games. I don't take it as an expression that they want to ban all kinds of games. It hasn't always been like this. In 1999, the previous bourgeois government, Bondevik I, tried to put in place some measures against gambling addiction. Already then it was visible to those who would see that this was extremely problematic. The big business was lobbied, and there was no one on the Stortinget – not SV, not the Christian People's Party, not the Workers' Party, no politicians – who were able to resist the pressure that was. That's not good. In 2002 I travelled a Document No. Eight proposals to tackle the problems again. I did not agree to this, but I agreed that no more licences would be given, that a roof would be set, and that Norwegian Typing would not start new games until the government had made a new message. Then the government came up with a new message. That's right, as the representative Thommes says, and I have praised Valgerd Svarstad Haugland very many times for the job she did. But there was someone who wanted to go considerably further that time. It wasn't that we didn't know. Even then, we had figures that showed that there were over 20,000 game addicts in Norway. At least that was good enough for me to respond. And we proposed – together with the Progress Party, in fact – that 1 pst. the revenue was to be treated. No, it was voted down by the representative Molvær Grimstad and the Christian People's Party. We suggested that we look at the ethical aspects of the marketing of games in Norway. It was voted down by the Christian People's Party. We proposed in 2003 that we examine the possibilities of banning gambling on the Internet. It was voted down by Molvær Grimstad. We proposed that we investigate the possibility of banning games on mobile phone. It was voted down by Molvær Grimstad. We wanted to put a limit on winnings at risk of NOK 300, which they have in Denmark and Sweden. It was voted down by Molvær Grimstad. We proposed that we take away the bills, and that there should only be coin withdrawals; we did so in 2003. It was voted down by Molvær Grimstad. We said we shouldn't have 10,000, but we should have 5,000 vending machines max. It was voted down by Molvær Grimstad. We said we should have an age limit in Norway of 18 for all games. It was voted down by Molvær Grimstad. It was possible to see already the time that we had, it might not have been 70,000 game addicts. Maybe we could have stopped it at 20,000. Not unimportant! Municipal self-government, which is desired, I believe is a derailment. I want a national game policy, and I take the words of the Council of State for what he says about the new terminals that I'm looking at in the future technological platform for Norwegian Typing, on which Norwegian Typing is also going to play today, and I don't think there's anyone in the hall who wants to ban – like tipping, Lotto and the odds. By the way, SV is very critical of the odds, and it's actually Norwegian Typing itself as well, because it gives a good deal of game addiction. We've said we won't accept games on the new terminals that are more aggressive than any of the games Norsk Typing has today. State Council Gieske has given us a confirmation that this is the way it should be. And then there is no reason why some municipalities should reserve themselves against it. Because I have not seen any rapporteurs who have called for them to reserve themselves against football, against Lotto, against Flax, etc. That's where the limit is going to go. And to the extent that there is a conflict between income targets and social considerations, the income target should give way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1668	In VG on 4 April of this year, President Thorvald Stoltenberg expressed concern that ‘the chase against the Giske vending machines will affect the poor, drug users and mentally ill’. The Christian People's Party thought it was a bigger problem that 70 000 game-dependent part-funding people's aid projects. Of course, the state must ensure a good framework for the voluntary sector. But we can do that without deploying new slot machines from Norwegian Typing. We must break the link between income from addictive gambling and the financing of the voluntary sector. It is perceived as problematic and almost inappropriate for many local teams to know that the organisation they are a member of, whether it is the Red Cross, the Rescue Company, the Cancer Association or others, receives money from gambling addicts to operations. Then we have to find other solutions in common. It's the Christian People's Party willing to do this, but then we have to stop experimenting with people's lives and health by putting out new machines. The government's game policy is both unsocial and unsolidarian. The Christian People's Party has previously proposed a total ban on vending machines in solidarity with the 70,000 game addicts. Unfortunately, this proposal was not accepted. In view of the many personal tragedy in the wake of the vending machines, many municipalities have chosen to become or want to be free from gambling. That is what we in the Christian People's Party believe they must have the opportunity. As of today’s date, 209 vocabularies have joined a patch where they distance themselves from vending machines and want local self-advisory when it comes to automatic placement. From 1 July, the country will be free of slot machines. When the seat ban was introduced last July, the requests to the Help Phone for game addicts went down by 45 pst. The Freisting will finally be gone for the majority of the game dependants when the slot machines are removed on 1 July. According to psychiatrist Hans Olav Fekjær, nothing is called ‘smart’ automates, when at the same time attracting hundreds of millions of dollars a year to volunteer organizations. When the Council of State Giske was pressed in the spring, he said that the new machines are as innocent as Lotto. If the machines are as innocent as he claims, a small problem is to pay the investment costs of 700 million. kr. And 90 pst. of the income from the machines comes from people who are more or less game addicts. State Council Geske talked about Norwegian Tipping's machines as innocent, but at the press conference on 22 May he said that he was aiming for an annual turnover of between NOK 6 and 7 billion. Everyone understands that this is not a "smart" machine. When Valgerd Svarstad Haugland started out as Minister of Culture, we had a turnover on automatic games of the same scale as the State Council Guess Now wants to get. So he wants to go back to the beginning, to a situation similar to the one that was when the Christian People's Party first said that enough is enough, and took the first step to clean up the automatic market. The presentation that the representative Gjul gave by the Christian People's Party his commitment to gambling issues is crazy. Magnar Lund Bergo talks about the commitment he's had. We have had our offensive in this area in the past. They should be commended for that. That's why it's so incomprehensible, when you now see that the game problem has increased so much and the sitting government has the possibility to join in and get this on the right cool, that they're on the sails. Trond Giske used the election campaign in 2005 to talk about the priority of the community. In this year's election campaign, the Labour Party's slogan is that everyone is going. But what about the 70,000 game addicts? Aren't they part of the good company? Thousands of parents spend all their money – and more – on automated games. Then there's a lean comfort to the son of a game addict that he can't afford to participate in, gets a new artificial grass path. Those who play the most are low-income groups, social security and immigrants. Even with a lower turnover of slot machines, revenue from slot machines is likely to come mainly from low-income groups. The government's game policy helps to keep track of social differences. Christian People's Party started an important work. We've moved on one step. It's not right that nothing was done when we were in government. The action plan that the government received was from the previous government. Some of the measures have been implemented, and some of us in the Christian People's Party have been involved, influencing and drawing up needs to be implemented. At the press conference on 22 May, the Minister for Culture said that only kiosks have veto rights in automatic cases. So the government has left the layer to the game addicts to the country's kiosks. The Christian People's Party believes that local politicians are better placed to decide whether a municipality should be playless.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1702	The theme that we are discussing in this matter, slot machines, has been discussed many times after a time, either in this room, in the media or in other places. Today, we are discussing whether it is right to give the municipalities self-government when it comes to the deployment of what will become the new terminals for Norwegian Typing, which are scheduled to be deployed in 2008. For the centre game, it is important to underline the following: The game problems must be taken seriously. Many in this country are dependent on games, whether they are slot machines, online games or other things. Numbers from the Guide have shown that the vast majority of people contacting the Guide were dependent on slot machines. Therefore, it is important that we now remove the harmful slot machines before the end of this month. Thus, they are to be replaced by the new game terminals. Gambling addiction costs society a lot, but it's even worse: it leads to a lot of personal suffering. Then the voluntary sector must become less dependent on gambling. The centre party is engaged in securing the voluntary sector. The voluntary sector primarily has a self-esteem by jointly activating people for meaningful and socially beneficial activities. However, there is no doubt that voluntary organisations also make extensive financial contributions to society through the production of services and extensive unpaid efforts, but this is clearly and directly reflected in the national accounts. Important preventive work is also taking place in the voluntary sector. For the Central Party, it was an important objective to provide voluntary organisations with more free resources over the State budget, thus reducing the share of the revenue of the sector that comes from gambling. Furthermore, the Centre Party is occupied by the local self-government. But we're not interested in pushing difficult issues and problems over to the municipalities, and that's exactly what the proposal we're dealing with today is an attempt. It is an attempt to get it sorted out in such a way that depositors should be able to handle newly washed hands when the voluntary sector comes by and asks for support for its work. Then we must point to local politicians and spokesmen and say that it is their responsibility. They are the ones who have said no to terminals. There is no other country in Europe that has such a gambling policy. The main challenge of the proposal is its inconsistency. The Christian People's Party seems to assume that the new game terminals for Norwegian Typing are much more addictive than other types of games, such as: online games and odds. We don't have any evidence to warrant it, but I can accept to the extent that the Christian People's Party means it. However, if one assumes that these vending machines are dangerous – if there is one reason why – one agrees today with knowingly and willfully for a proposal that opens up for some municipalities to place it as a dangerous vending machine. Because if you say yes to this proposal, it is not just that the municipalities can say no, it also says that the municipalities can choose to say yes. If one thinks that the new terminals are as harmful as the old ones, it's the only right thing to ban them. The center game is going to have a good eye on the new game terminals, and we're going to continue our work to reduce the game problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1725	I think I'll start with the sentence in Gunn Karin Gjul's post that I most agreed with her in. That's the sentence: it's not that simple. It is clear that this is not so easy for the Government, and you use the good old principle of the Council of State that attack is the best way to make sure that you don't see what kind of mess you have with fighting the fight. But I have to say that when I listened to Magnar Lund Bergo, I almost got a little pity on the representative. It's a good job, because it's the first time I've had pity on him. I have to say that the defeat that the SV and the Central Party have suffered in government in this matter, it can't be easy to speak so flamingly for, whether it's the Center Party, which speaks flamingly against the local democracy, it's SV at May Hansen, as for example. in the evening post on 15 May – it is not that long ago – said that ‘for SV it is completely inappropriate to force municipalities in this case’, or it is Magnar Lund Bergo’s zejl, as on 30 March – it is not that long ago – in Dagbladet, page 17, said: ‘The EFTA judgment has given us an opportunity to determine the sea. We should seize that opportunity and refrain from deploying new slot machines.’ That's what SV's Magnar Lund Bergo said. I understand that this is not that easy. You might have chosen a slightly different profile, because several of us actually read newspapers. But I want to use the time to comment on what this matter is actually about. This issue is about the view of local democracy and how, based on the desire to have a national policy, local policies can also be pursued in the various areas. The left considers that there should be a national gambling policy. As liberals, we have a relationship with games like what you have with alcohol: it's something that can make someone happy and be a tragedy to others. In fact, it is also true that because it leads to joy for someone, you cannot forbid it, but you have to have restrictive positions relating to the regulation of it. That's the liberal answer. We in the Left do not just want a yes or a no from the local authorities in this matter. We want to have an action plan on gambling policy at local level, to have a position on the number, location, access, and also on who should be commissioner for Norwegian Typing, because soon there will not be such a big difference between being commissioner and having slot machines exposed. So there's one question that I think is interesting. Here it is assumed that when 200 rapporteurs have said that they want this, it means that all of these are going to say no. Does it mean that you believe that every time you give local democracy the power to mean something, it's a clear sense that all the rapporteurs are going to say no? I know that the left many places in the local government, such as in the City Council of Oslo, have voted for the municipalities to have power, but they will not vote for a no. Having municipal power doesn't mean you just have the power to say no. That means you also have the power to say yes. But then you actually have to put it into context, get it regulated, get to decide how you want it to be in your municipality, and also get to decide which areas are exposed, and which areas are not exposed – actually get a sense of how this happens in local democracy. So I'm going to use the last minute I have, to maybe make some recordings of the volunteer message, because I'm a little scared about the special representative Sande. I understand that the message is not complete, so maybe there can be hope for us since we can make some recordings from this pulpit as well. It is important, when dealing with the games and with the game policy in Norway, to be able to have a little look at the history behind the games. It has not been long since non-governmental organisations in Norway were refused support from the country for their projects because they had not used the automatic market sufficiently. It has not been many years since organisations that refused slot machines were not supported by state projects, because they had chosen to reject slot machines. It is important to remember that Norwegian Typings took part in games after games after games, with an ever-increasing growth, an increasingly monopolistic and an increasingly aggressive marketing, also historically is a rather important role they have acquired. The important principle here is related to the free revenues managed by organisations on the sea, versus the revenue decided by the government on which organisations should have. The debates we have today on whether or not one can receive public support based on what opinions one has, I think, open up some important principles. Suffering if the Center Party has been shackled into this matter within the Government, I had hoped that at least those parties that have a certain tradition of understanding the freedom of voluntary organizations themselves, were in fact able to understand the difference between the two kinds of money when it comes to volunteering policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1750	When the Left is talking about being shackled into government, I guess we're listening to a party that speaks of experience. In this case, it was actually so that the SVs and the Central Party’s large-scale groups joined the game policy on which the Government stands. There was no compromise between the parties, the three parties agreed. I note that the old government parties continue their crusade against volunteering after fighting the change in the key, after fighting against volunteer records, against rules for collection actions that make it easier and safer to be a donor. After removing the compensation promised by the volunteer in the transitional year between vending machines and game terminals, they are now making a complete turnaround from the reconciliation they made with the voluntarity when the automatic reform was introduced. It was not without reason that there was a co-aggression, with the exception of the Progress Party, which in its time believed that it would be a national game policy. 431 different game regimes in Norway serve no one. For 60 years, Norwegian Tipping’s game offers with moderate games have helped to prevent problems of addiction and crime. Experience shows that Norsk Tipping’s offer contributes to the fact that most people do not play from farm and land, and it prevents large illegal markets from growing. The representative of Molvær Grimstad said it was impossible to have a billion-dollar market for a game without creating problems. Well, Lotto sells about $4 billion every year. It will be interesting to hear the presentation by the representative Molvær Grimstad in the debate on the major gambling addiction problems that Lotto causes in Norway. The reason why there was no total ban in 2003 included: experience from Sweden has shown that a total ban has contributed to a large illicit gambling market with Mafia activities and criminal gangs operating it and to new gambling addiction problems. Therefore, a national strict regime was chosen to replace the slot machines. Norwegian Typing's new game should not be imposed on the municipalities. If no one in a municipality wants to enter into agreements with Norsk Typing, there will be no gaming terminals in that municipality. The same is true today, of course – with the odds, the football tipping and the Lotto. I have not registered that anyone claims that the government forces the municipalities to offer the odds. The most surprising thing in the debate in the last few months has been that part of the opposition parties have decided in advance that the new terminals will create gambling addiction, without having ever seen such a terminal, rather the games that will be on them. These games actually described the representative Magnar Lund Bergo in a very good way. This is the technology of the future – it's just a computer. Like most computers, they're not harmful in themselves, unless you somehow get them over you. It is the substance. All of these computers are connected to a network where you can modify or remove games with a keypress from the central Norwegian Typings at Hamar. The question is: Isn't it better that we have a national expertise in the Lottery Authority, the Ministry of Culture and other places that regularly follow these games and decide what to offer than that we build this expertise in 431 municipalities? I see that the Left in its comment says that the State will pay for these red tapes and appliances in each municipality that will then assess each game at the terminals. It should be an interesting system when it is to be developed in all municipalities. I assume that it is on a professional basis that the municipalities will assess which games to allow at the terminals in their municipality, and which games to prohibit. Or are you going to ban the terminals completely? If this becomes the channel of the future for Lotto, does Molvær Grimstad think that Lotto should go, too, because you have to stop the other games at the game terminals? The Christian People's Party uses strong words about the government's game policy. The difference between our game policy and the previous government is that ours is much more stringent. We have imposed a no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. We have introduced night closing, it did not do the Christian People's Party. We've reduced the income target, not the Christian People's Party. We have banned one-armed bandit games on the new game terminals, not the Christian People's Party. We're probably going to reduce the number, it didn't do the Christian People's Party. It was also never about any local ban under the Christian People's Party. When the Christian People's Party uses such words about such a strict game policy, what words does the representative Molvær Grimstad use about the policy that her government pursued for four years, where the spill increased from DKK 8 billion to NOK 28 billion.? It is now very modern and popular for the opposition to demand complaints from state councils. In fact, I really believe that the Christian People's Party should go up and apologize to all those who became addicted to gambling because of the explosive growth – with which nothing was done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1776	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1779	To state council statements that, under the assumption of local autonomy, we had to have expertise in 431 municipalities: it is entirely possible to have local reservation rights. That's what we're talking about, without having to have expertise everywhere. We're still going to have the monopoly of games. The whole apparatus and the whole expertise and all the security measures to which the Council of State refers, the whole system built up, will still be possible in a central, national solution and national legislation. So the difference is that some municipalities would not want to have these games in their municipality. I think, like Skei Grande, that if this is as good as the state council adds up to, there might be a lot of municipalities that will choose to have the games. I also think that you would be able to get into good discussions about the status of volunteering in the individual municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1786	I don't understand what to base these decisions on, if it's not professional. That must be the risk of gambling dependence. Here we've done a number of things that the previous government didn't do. We have imposed a banknote ban and stricter rules on sales speed and on which types of games we are to have, we have banned the one-armed bandits, etc., based on professional judgement. It has to be the kind of professionalism you also use in municipalities. If 431 municipalities are to make these decisions, you have to have that expertise. I believe that we have a national responsibility, not just to say no to dangerous games in all municipalities. It cannot be that if we believe that a game is dangerous, then it should be perfectly fine for a rapporteur in a municipality to say that no, it is not so dangerous anyway. It must be us who take the responsibility that the people of Norway are safe from gambling. The last government did not. It does the government of the day. I don't understand what it's like in the future if the game terminals, for example. may also offer Lotto. How can it be that a rapporteur says no that the corner kiosk can have a terminal offering Lotto in its municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1793	Governments know very well that the Christian People's Party was also engaged when we were in government, in relation to the game problem and the action plan that was developed. When we came into opposition, we also had to press for precisely the measures that the Council of State boasts that they have implemented. The Council of State stated that if we did not win the EFTA Court and could have a monopoly, the Council of State wanted a total ban on machines. The Christian People's Party is committed to what we have promised when it comes to voluntary teams and organizations, i.e. the 933 million. kr. Then I'd like to ask the Council of State: if we hadn't won through, would the Council of State have ignored the promise to the volunteers? What he is attacking us for now is that we primarily wanted a ban, based on what we have proposed in this period, and secondly that the municipalities could say no. The first six months will be six months without slot machines and without action in relation to a black gaming market.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1802	I said before the trial was decided, that it is completely out of date to continue today's regime. For me, it was inconvenient to have a system where 28 billion dollars were traded, and how many, many thousands were addicted to gambling. Fortunately, we won the trial, so we can implement the policy that the Christian People's Party stood for, except that we implement it in a much more stringent way. It's just not right when the Christian People's Party says that you didn't know that at the time, and that you've turned around, because now you know more. In the documents that the Christian People's Party's Council of State and the government attorney presented under the legal proceedings – even when they were in government – this is so well described that it is almost a crime that no more was done when you were in government. How could you increase the game to NOK 28 billion? Why didn't the banknote ban be introduced? Can't the representative Molvær Grimstad take a line and explain to the Norwegian people why you didn't bring up such a simple proposal, which was on the table from the addicts? Why was labelling not introduced? Why didn't you let people who were playing go home at night? You just stood there and watched.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1809	The Christian People's Party was engaged in government, and we are engaged in opposition and see that we must go even further than what we did when we were in government. But the Council of State does not answer the question. The council said that we don't get multiples for a monopoly, one will have a total ban, he saw no other solution than that. It sounds as if the Council of State never thought of it as a matter of ensuring volunteering. The same applies to the black gambling market, which is one of the basics of having a ban. We'll have a six-month period of automatic zone – that's great. But is the government council concerned about the black gambling market?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1816	The representative is quoting me wrong. I said that no matter how the trial goes, all today's vending machines are going away from 1 July, and then we're going to evaluate what we're doing. The current market is not up to date. After all, the Christian People's Party has had a hard ride here, both from the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Advance Party and SV. But I actually believe that we have a claim to know why the turnover went from NOK 8 billion to NOK 28 billion without doing anything. I registered that the leader of the Christian People's Party was visiting Drammen County Prison. I guess the vast majority of those who had problems with gambling addiction who were there became addicted to gambling when the Christian People's Party was put in government. Did Højbråten apologize for not doing more? Did he apologize for not setting up a night lock? Did he apologize for not imposing the banknote ban? Did he apologize for not cleaning up any more? Now we have reduced turnover by many billions just because of the ban on banknotes. The enquiries to the Help Line were halved when the banknote ban came into place. Why didn't they put it in place? If the representative Molvær Grimstad can't stand here and answer that, I believe she has very little credibility with the populist line that the Christian People's Party is now running.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1827	I want to go back to that with the expertise in the 431 municipalities. Of course, you have to have a discussion based on what you're facing of kind of games. But in the same way as in the alcohol policy, I really assume that the central authorities that manage this, and that are responsible for the games, can also spread their knowledge across the country. Local research activities, or local expertise, are not specifically targeted at allocations and alcohol policy discussions. It goes on and on and on and on and on, as the Council of State knows. Within the framework given, I can't believe that it's something irresponsible at all for local politicians to make such decisions. Does the Council of State, for which the Central Party expressed itself here, really think that these are difficult issues for which local politicians should be careful?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1836	Lottery supervision is one of those that warns against creating local gambling regimes. They say that there is not one country in the world that has delegated to local authorities to control the gaming market, because even with a regional ban, illegal markets can be obtained, and it will be almost impossible for the Lottery Authority to follow in 431 different gaming markets. I will give the Right Honour for one thing, and it is that the Right clearly says that if there are local bans, local politicians must also take responsibility for the compensation of volunteering. That is not the message that the Right-Rapporteur in the Drammen or the Right-Rapporteurs communicate many other places. They say it's a matter of course that the state has to pay for this. That's also an argument. We don't want voluntary teams, sports teams and organizations to be thrown into uncertainty and unpredictability because we get 431 different regimes. Just one last thing: the left said here instead that all those who are running the rapporteur's insurrection were not in favour of a ban. Yeah, they're on a list on a website called autofree.no. I guess it tells most about what they really mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1845	This I think is sad. I'm glad it's late tonight. In fact, I hope that none of those who are addicted to gambling have heard the Council's exchange of lines and attacks on the Christian People's Party in this matter. The Christian People's Party has always been committed to getting as far as possible, as the political environment desired. Why did the council and his party sit quite quietly and let the Christian People's Party take the «war» last, when the Christian People's Party also now wants to go further, for the sake of all those addicts who have had problems with the machines? I think it would be unworthy of the Council of State to be so “high” in this case, when you do not have a very good case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1854	It really isn't the government that uses the big words in this case. If you look at the minutes from the representative Molvær Grimstad's posts, you'll see that she's talking about the government's policy in the game area in very negative order. Before we introduce the monopoly, we have reduced the turnover of the vending machines by billions of dollars. The requests for the Guide were halved. These measures could have been introduced during the previous period. I can repeat the question to the Vice-President of the Christian People's Party, because she also has the opportunity to subscribe to a three-minute post: why didn't you do anything to reduce the turnover of the machines? It went from NOK 8 billion to NOK 28 billion. There are deep social tragedies in that inaction. It is well and good that the case was brought in EFTA, and it is good to argue against it, but it must also be done. You cannot come after and label the policies of others, which are far more stringent than the one you put up for. In 2004, the regulatory framework for future game terminals was established. We've tightened it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1862	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1867	In the municipality of Lyngen, 12 out of 13 families have lost their playing problem after the municipality was automatically free. But why should only a few municipalities have the opportunity to become automatically free? 209 rapporteurs around the country are asking that question and have joined a tying-up where they distance themselves from vending machines. They want local self-confidence about the automatic placement, as they are now being forced on vending machines they do not want. The rapporteurs are not interested in experimenting with Norwegian Typing's so-called nice machines. They themselves experience what the vending machines do with people and their economy. They will prevent rather than repair. In addition to the fact that you can lose up to 400 kroner per minute on the machines today, they are hit with the bad economy the hardest. This is reflected in the placement of the vending machines. For example, Oslo’s vending machines are: located on the eastern edge, but almost not found on the west edge. The CC West and Stoves Centers are about as much used as the CC West, but the automatic turnover is ten times as high at the Stoves Center as at the CC West. It is claimed that without Norwegian Typing slot machines, illegal machines will occur, but the government has decided that there will be an automatic period from 1 July 2007 to 31 December 2007, in which case there will be an equal challenge with illegal machines during that period, without action being taken to counter this by the Government. It is also claimed that many automaton players will switch to online gambling, but this has been very little demonstrated by the Guideline, treatment institutions and self-help organisations for gambling addicts. Not even when the banknote ban was introduced, and the turnover of the ATMs fell by several billion, saw a notable increase in online gambling. It should not be up to the kiosks, but local politicians to decide whether a municipality should be free of play. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes it is important to empower the municipalities to refuse these profit-making vending machines. The Soria Moria Declaration under the chapter ‘People’s Rule’ states: ‘The people’s board is under pressure. The decisions are increasingly transferred to market players, to wealthy individuals, organisations, bureaucrats and others who are not responsible to the people in elections. This leads to a lack of trust, demise and less involvement and participation in social issues among the majority of people. If important policy objectives are to be achieved, markets must be corrected by governance of elected bodies.’.» If government parties are to take their own policies seriously, it will mean that local politicians are the ones to decide, not the kiosks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1885	Automated cases have been one of the most violent issues in the spring session. That's not so strange, because problems related to gambling addiction caused by the current vending machines have frames families and individuals hard. After all, the knowledge of this led to an accumulation, with the exception of the Progress Party, in 2003, support the Bondevik Government’s proposal to introduce a State gambling monopoly. This was done because you already had good knowledge of the problems at the time, and you agreed on a way to deal with them. However, it was only when the government of Stoltenberg was in place that concrete political action was taken to do something about the obscenity in the course of a game monopoly. Banknote bans, night closings and information have improved the situation, and on 1 July it is the end of the old and cloudy machines. But then the political positions have changed, and it's not easy to find the logic in the different positions. The Christian People's Party has gone from being a strong adherent to a state gambling monopoly through a proposal for a total ban on machines, to today's proposal to give municipalities the right to veto the deployment of the new and much less aggressive terminals. On the right hand side, the commuting between supporting the introduction of State monopoly to propose – together with the Progress Party – that municipalities should be given responsibility for their own gaming policy, to the current position where the Right both says yes to state gambling monopoly and yes to municipal veto against vending machines. It is only the Advance Party, as far as I can see, that has kept up and meant the same all the time; full municipal law of destination in the game policy, where the party also does not hesitate to mention casinos and other gambling as possible municipal offers. And that's how the days go. It is necessary to adjust policy-makers’ positions from time to time, but it is strange that, until those degrees have changed their mind, despite a good knowledge of the problems already in 2003. Local and regional maritime law is very important, but there are policy areas that primarily require a central policy mix. Not least, I'm skeptical about building parallel municipal administrations in a field that should be managed collectively and centrally. I have assumed that the proposers believe that municipal veto rights regarding the new terminals must also apply in general, that is. also any future games. And then I have also assumed that it is believed that municipal veto must be taken on the basis of a thorough assessment and in-depth knowledge of the game in question. At that time, each municipality must also ensure that it has the necessary competence to make such assessments, because these are more different and complex issues than the alcohol policy provides. I believe that the proposers have failed to approach this matter in principle. What is proposed here can actually be a bureaucratic and demanding task for those municipalities who want to do a serious and thorough job on behalf of their citizens. I believe that managing a good and socially responsible gambling policy requires a significant apparatus, good competence and continuous research, testing and vigilance. I am of the opinion that it is a task that we should let the state, with constant and good contact with the municipalities, take responsibility for on behalf of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1909	We're beginning to understand that there's been some prestige in this matter for the Minister of Culture, because he seems a little locked up. In the replica box, he couldn't help but keep his debt on the previous government – it has been a trademark of this government. But to criticize the Christian People's Party that we were acting lambs in slot machines while we were in government is quite daunting, and it falls to say own urismality. What is completely impossible to understand for me is that the Center Party and SV accept a scheme that in reality means that gambling addicts are going to fund Norwegian volunteering. It's incomprehensible that some of their society's most vulnerable to failure by SV to bring peace to the government. It is incomprehensible that the Centre Party places so much on the supported State Council that they deny the municipalities self-government in this matter. Or does the Center Party and SV think that there are the spokesmen in the country who don't understand this, and that the 209 spokesmen who have signed up to now on the campaign for local self-government have misunderstood the whole thing? The Centerpartiet believes that the leader of the Senterungdom has misunderstood when he says: ‘This is unacceptable! Gaze drives the extortion of local politicians No local politicians are to be forced to choose between sports facilities and social tragedies in their own community [[...]] [[...]] Maybe the government at 70 pst. by the Norwegian people who want the autos out, don't you understand? 9 out of 10 dollars from auto-receipts comes from game addicts. The new machines are smarter, it's called, they don't create game dependency. Nevertheless, the government's argument to keep the automata is that the state needs them to get money into the voluntary sector. Yes, understand who can! I have understood that the Centre Party and the SV have intended to vote against the people, the spokesmen and the game-dependent demands, and for a new one says for the plural government – but I have no understanding of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1921	I suppose I can open up by saying that it feels a little awkward with the pity representative Skei Grande brought with me. But at the same time, she is quite right: at one point I stated that I did not want the new terminals to Norwegian Typing set off. I built it on the terminals that Valgerd Reply City Haugland showed us in 2004. We had not received any signals that those games would change. After that, I have been visiting Norsk Tipping. They also realized that these terminals, at that time, had games that were addictive and aggressive. I also had meetings with the Council of State Gist about the same thing, which assured us that these games are going to go away. The games to be at the terminals should not be more aggressive than any of the other games Norsk Typing has today. For me, insurance is good enough, and there were also insurances that enabled us to accept, as I also said before, the new technological platform for Norwegian Typing. Then to the representative Molvær Grimstad. In 2003 and in the future, I had many meetings with the then state councillor, Answerstad Haugland. It was the SV that was the guarantor that she could drag this as far as she wanted. I think it came out of my previous post that we would go much further. She knew that all the measures she wanted to take, we would support. It must be uncomfortable to know that during that period there were suggestions on the table that would clearly have stopped new recruitment to gambling addiction. In the period from 2003 until the last government went off, we, as surveys show, got 50,000 new gambling addicts without having a finger lifted. It must be uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1928	We can discuss the past – up and down in mind. We can discuss who said one thing or another, and how far the different ones would go. I can spend a long time doing that, but does that solve the problem that we have today? No, it actually doesn't. If we listen to the union of gambling addicts, and if we listen to Hans Olav Fekjær, who is a psychiatrist and expert in this field, what advice do they give us? The advice is clear: please do not leave the slot machines anywhere, or let us be free. So state councillor Trond Giske might rise above prehistory and use all the energy on it, but we actually want to look at what we can do to solve this problem in the future. Based on a look-up I saw in the media after the Christian People's Party made its proposal, one could interpret it as SV's group board supporting Christian People's Party's Document No. 8-proposal that the municipalities should not be forced on the vending machines. The Center Party's home page says that they want to remove these machines in the long run. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has written and signed articles with the title: There are no good machines. So state council says guessing that the government party is some about this game policy, but lookups that have come after this time and at this time, show that the government party is cracking in its narratives. Åslaug Haga said in his spontaneous interview that in the long run, one should remove these vending machines. So what can we do to solve the problems that we're dealing with, and what can we do with the social tragedy that this entails? Then it doesn't help me that we could have done things a little bit like that or a little bit like that and so on. When I look forward, I want to listen to those who have problems today, and then we could probably have said that we could have done even more before. We caught it, but we could probably have done even more. But one does not solve this problem today by looking back. I want to look forward, and I could wish the government would be there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1939	It is possible that the representative Ingebrigig Sørfonn was not in the room when I kept my post. But at least I said clearly that the Center Party wants to make the voluntary sector less playful. But the post to Sørfonn is no less interesting when he quotes the leader of the Senterung, who says something like that we don't want to leave to the municipalities to choose between a new gym and avoid social problems. No, we don't. It is, of course, the Christian People's Party that has the proposal here today. It is the Christian People's Party that will ease this problem out of this house and over to the municipalities, so that the municipalities are just facing that choice, so that the voluntary organizations are just going to be spokesmen and local politicians when they are going to have money for their activities. The representative of Mr Sørfonn must read the proposal, because that is exactly what is in this proposal. The Christian People's Party today argues that this should be a prohibition proposal. If it were, all the Christian People's Party posts would have voted quite well. But this is a proposal to leave this problem to the municipalities. So one more thing. So now the Christian People's Party has been challenged three times on what the Christian People's Party did in the previous period to meet this huge increase in machine turnover. I record that now there have been two contributions from the Christian People's Party from this pulpit, and it has not come a moment, not one thing is mentioned by measures taken by the Christian People's Party to limit the explosive growth in this area when the Christian People's Party set with the Council of State and the Christian People's Party set with government power.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1950	I think it's brave of the government council and others from the government parties to try to make this a winning cause separately. I have been following this case for many years. Yes, we knew a lot when the monopoly was adopted, but that was the longest we could manage to get there. I remember a working party that sat quite mouse-free when the Christian People's Party and Valgerd took the incredibly tough fight it was starting to touch in this market. There was so much economy at stake. There was so much uncertainty in Freedom Norway about what would happen to them. Things had to mature. If the representative Sande and the Council of State are asking what the Christian People's Party did, I can say that the Christian People's Party was standing on the barricades to begin to dry up something that everyone had been sitting still and watching. I admire strong politicians. I admire strong politicians who show power of action, but I admire them more when that power of action is favored by those who need it most in solidarity, and not to try to defend a matter that is not good. We've followed the state councils, and we've cheered on the state council when he's come up with measures to tighten up the market to prevent more people from becoming addicted to gambling. Then I also want to say from this chair – as I was in the committee the previous time – that SV is also right to say that they were on the barricades in this matter. SV also went ahead. They had a Document No. 8-proposals that the SV representative talked about here, but the Christian People's Party and SV had not received a political majority to get this through. For this to be done, it was something that had to mature in our nation. It had to mature in voluntary Norway. It had to mature in the political environment. And when someone asks us whether we are discussing bans here today, I want to say, also to the representative Sande, that a proposal for a ban has been promoted here in this Chamber, and that was voted against by the centre party. That was the Christian People's Party's primary proposal. When this is not possible, we want the 200 rapporteurs who have wanted it to have an opportunity to say no. It's municipal autonomy. I wish that the power of action and energy we see from many politicians today would have been in favour of sometimes solidarity with those who actually need us the most, and that is the gambling addicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1965	I cannot say anything but that I am provoked by the trains of the Christian People's Party against this pulpit. The Christian People's Party is trying in a way to present itself as so much more noble than all of us, and so much better in politics than all of us in this area. I want to challenge the Christian People's Party, because I want them to mention one action by the Christian People's Party in government to reduce the problem of gambling addiction. They didn't come with a single measure, but I'd like them to mention it, if they can do it. Secondly, they are saying today that gambling addicts are funding volunteering. Why did they think that gambling addicts did not finance volunteering when they sailed into government? Can anyone explain that to me? Molver Grimstad won't talk about what's happened. She wants to look forward. Yeah, that might be okay. But had things been done at an earlier time, many individual ships could have been saved. If you had gone in with e.g. night closing or no banknote ban at an earlier date, many families could have escaped the tragedies they are experiencing today. The Christian People's Party and the other government parties had the opportunity. It is not as the Vice-Chair of the Christian People's Party now claims that this had to mature. These were things you could have done in government without having to go to the Storting and ask, because it can happen through regulations. This government has implemented the game policy we have today. The previous government could have done the same thing. Earlier in the debate, I was accused by Olemic Thommessen of not showing generosity in relation to Svarstad Haugland. If it's a politician in the former government parties I really think you can be rude to, it's Svarstad Haugland. She helped to get a settlement in Stortinget that this government has been burdened and broken. What is sad is that the former government partners have turned their backs on Svarstad Haugland's excellent policy. They are the ones who have turned their backs on this, and today they will not help us to have a game policy that balances both the incomes of volunteering and ensures that we reduce the problems we have with gambling.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1978	Magnar Lund Bergo has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1982	It was nice to hear the representative Dagrun Eriksen in a debate again. It's been a long time since we've been in the same debate. You said what was true. You said it was the longest we could get. That was at least almost true, because, as I said in my previous post, I had quite a number of meetings with Reply City Haugland in that period. As Molvær Grimstad said, we think there might be some disagreement in the government. Yes, there are different views on this matter in the government, as it was in the previous government, so there are limits to what we could get into. It never stood on us. In 2003 there was a great load what Valgerd Svarstad Haugland did, and I have boasted of it many times. There was an even greater burden for us that would go even further, but we were willing to take that burden. Today there is no further burden. Today, rabbits are spreading in all corners of the world to help combat gambling addiction, because it is now a winner's cause. Now it is easy to be present, and it is very easy for rapporteurs who are not going to pay one penny.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1991	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e1994	It is very special to hear that the questions we are now discussing are too difficult, too complicated, too burdensome for local politicians. It is later to be the main argument of the Centre Party not to support the local self-government in this matter – think about it. In fact, I trust that local politicians can also take the difficult decisions, that they can actually also take the decisions that are demanding and that would probably also be demanding here. I might also think that the representative of the Central Party could lay a little bit lower in the rhetoric in terms of excellence in terms of being restrictive in this area. I do not remember that it was close to proposals from the Center Party, nor in the previous period when it was about tightening up. When the situation was that we received hundreds, maybe thousands of emails from football, from choirs, from sports associations across the country, it wasn't exactly the same mood around this pulpit compared to flagging it to have a restrictive line. It was actually the Bondevik government that took the burden with, and not so little Valgerd Svarstad Haugland personally as the government council. It's going to be interesting to go back – and I think someone should care about that, because I have to admit that my memory is not enough for me to remember exactly all the suggestions and who voted what on what – and see who voted what on what. My reverential claim is that there are not many others but Lund Bergo who can stand upright on this pulpit and in a way have their backs free from the tone set on these questions. I think honesty in politics is important. I think maybe this case should deserve to cool a little in relation to that. I think you should have a slightly stronger memory of what you have actually meant in the past, and have previously worked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2005	The last post seems to me to have been an outstanding article in relation to an appeal to the Christian People's Party to remember what you have stood for yourself. It's not that it's not allowed to change meaning, but here you go to the pulpit, as Ingreigt S. Sørfonn does, and says that now the government is putting up for the gambling addicts to finance Norwegian volunteering, and then the government implements the policies of the Christian People's Party, except that it is much more stringent! I see the representative Sørfonn shaking his head. There's ample opportunity to go to the pulpit and say what's the difference between today's government policy and the answer town Haugland stood for. Apart from the introduction of currency bans, night closing, labelling, fees, support for the unification of the gambling addicts, reduced income targets, the removal of one-armed bandits and a few other measures, the policy is the same as that of the Christian People's Party, i.e. that they had notes, they had open night, they had the opportunity for one-armed bandits, and they had several vending machines and bigger income requirements. When you use such strong words as that of gambling addicts to finance Norwegian volunteering, what words will the representative Sørfonn use about the policy of the Christian People's Party government? It's not that someone didn't know about the problems. It is described in the documents of the Christian People's Party's own government. That is why the EFTA court met because the major social problems were known. So they say you didn't have political room for action. Jo! That's quite correct, as Gunn Karin Gjul says, a ban on banknotes could have been imposed by regulation. Reconnaissance could be introduced by regulation. It has been introduced by regulation. You wouldn't have had to go to the Storting. But as the representative Lund Bergo says here, they had certainly received SV's support for those measures. I really think Dagrun Eriksen that the opposition in Stortinget would oppose that people were refused to play from at noon. 24 or 02 at night until 07 in the morning? At least we prevented them from standing at the gas station with the kids lying in the car. 28 billion kroner was the result when Dagfinn Høybråten left as Minister of Health when the Christian People's Party left the government. You shouldn't talk about the past, says May-Helen Molvær Grimstad. Yes, it is a great comfort to those who are in great debt, social tragedies – serious relationships. So we reduced the waste by billions of dollars before we won the trial. It is quite fine to change your mind, but at least you have to use words about other people's policies that are much more stringent, which are similar to what you stood for. That is not the case in this case. It would have deserved it, because it's a little too serious to run populist policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2018	The representative Erling Sande has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2021	I just have to comment briefly on the contributions of the representative, Olemic Thommessen, on local self-government. That was interesting. Earlier in the debate Thommes was challenged by the representative Knudsen from the Progress Party if there was no way to give the local self-government greater control over the game policy. Then Thommessen was on this pulpit and said, "No, this only applies to slot machines. It's not like we're opening up to casinos and similar things. So the simple question of the Thommes must be: why in all the world will he not leave it to local authorities? Is it that local authorities can figure out in the introduction of casinos across the country? Why is it so scary to take the step all the way out and leave the entire game policy to local self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2031	The representative of Molvær Grimstad has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2034	It's getting late at night, and people are getting tired. It seems that without consideration for what we're saying, the Council of States will rise just as strongly above the same quadruple with the same measure, and no matter what one explains, that quadruple won't go in. The Christian People's Party has our active and committed. It was we who addressed the game problem, we continued to work on it and presented an action plan that this Government has had the possibility to implement. We've arranged. What I also find out is that the Council of State will present it as if there is a broad consensus in the Government about this, while both the Central Party on its home page say they will get rid of the so-called nice machines, and SV an eye-blink was drifting to support the proposals of the Christian People's Party, but has been dragged in. It seems that commitment is the best defense, and that the government thinks this is a burdensome and difficult matter. [[The President clubs.]] I will close the debate for my associate, because there are still many issues to be discussed. I don't think we're going to move on now, but we're still going to fight, and I hope we get to the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2045	The President has a certain sense that this debate also begins to end up in a game that can quickly become dependent on! The President would remind us that the time is many, and that we still have things to do on the agenda. Olemic Thommessen has held the word twice before and gets the word to a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2052	I'm sure the representative Sande has read a lot of Holberg, because he's reasoning something like Erasmus Montanus. But it's the way that Mom's little isn't a rock this time either! There's a pretty straightforward explanation as to why we don't want casinos around the country and beach, although we think that municipalities should be able to have an opinion about volunteering policy in their own municipality and reservation law in relation to a controlled system. It is true that expertise is required. In fact, it is a mistake that was claimed by the Workers' Party, that it must be kept in 431 municipalities. But the department, supervision and Norwegian Tipping want expertise, so here it will be a check on the framework conditions. This should not deprive local politicians of the opportunity. There's something quite different than adding up to a wide range of games. Then you had to have this expertise spread around.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2061	This is perhaps one of the most debated issues in the spring out in the media and elsewhere, so it should well be set of some time to discuss it also in the main hall, where it actually determines. I now note at the bottom of the debate that the Christian People's Party – I think they have now spoken eight times – does not follow the call we have given them, to mention one single measure that slowed the growth of waste in the previous period. This is, of course, because no measures were put in place that slowed the growth of waste. So finally, it's made like now, these gambling addiction problems are going to continue. No! No! In 16 days, all the vending machines that have created these problems will be removed from all Norwegian municipalities. There will not be a single game in a single municipality that will create such problems again. The Christian People's Party argues that the municipalities must be allowed to say no to harmful games. I would argue that it should be illegal for the municipalities to say yes to harmful games. We are not going to have harmful games in any municipalities. It is quite right that the representative Erling Sande, among others, has said here that if you think the games are harmful, then the only logical argument is that it must be banned throughout Norway – not that it should be banned in the Drammen, but that it should be allowed in Lier, or banned on Henefoss, but be allowed on Jevnaker. There are no game addicts in Norway. So, last of all. I also record that the Christian People's Party in this debate has at least not spent much time on volunteering, which is dependent on a secure, predictable framework. You've been told to compensate. The last time the retired Bondevik government did before they left the offices in 2005, was to put a line over the 900 million. kr that the volunteer would be in compensation for the transition year between automatic receipts and income from Norwegian Typing in the future. I see the representative Molvær Grimstad shaking his head. Then I suggest that she read St. Prp. No 1 for 2005-2006 by the Ministry of Culture and the Church, because there is the total – 900 million. kr – which was promised to be voluntary, removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2075	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 29. [[Food, see page 3722]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2093	No one has asked for the floor. [[Food, see page 3722]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2109	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2118	This applies to the development of Gjøa, Vega and Vega south. Gjøa is a gas and condensate field located 65 km southwest of Florø. Statoil shall be the operator of the deployment phase, while Gaz de France Norway AS – GdF – takes over during the operational phase. I will continue to say that the planned start of production is the fourth quarter of 2010, and the economic lifetime is estimated at 14 years. It's just under 27 billion dollars. Vega and Vega are built in the south. These are gas and condensate fields. Hydro is the operator both in the deployment phase and in the operational phase, while GdF will perform the day-to-day work and operations. Production start is parallel to Doing, and this represents an investment of SEK 7.3 billion. The total investment is almost NOK 35 billion. It is a significant uplift, but investments are considered economically robust. There are several interesting points in this expansion project. Firstly, a transport solution is chosen for natural gas and stable oil to be shipped to St. Fergus in Scotland and Mongstad respectively. When the Stortinget two years ago adopted Statfjord’s late phase, there was a major discussion related to the landing of gas. It was decided to send the gas to the rest of the world via the FLAGS system, as is the case with Do. In this context, a proposal was made for a decision by the current government parties and the Progress Party that a comprehensive review of the Norwegian gas structure and Norwegian gas management should be submitted. The background to this was the desire to develop the industrial potential that the extraction of natural gas could entail on land in Norway. I would like to take the opportunity to ask the Council of State when he sees that such a message can be provided. Secondly, it is added to power from land – electrification. This is a very important climate action for a sector that accounts for a quarter of our total emissions. Compared to a traditional solution, this will mean a reduction in emissions of up to 110 000 tonnes per year, and that is a lot. This is also a float rig. Float rigs have not been electrified in the past. Now, if you solve this on Do, there's a lot of opportunities for this technology also open up on a number of other installations. I therefore want to express great satisfaction at the work that competent professionals have done to get this done. What will now happen to environmentally friendly power solutions at Gjøa, and solutions that we will adopt for Valhalla later this evening, may be an indication that other and better power solutions are at full speed into the Norwegian oil industry. We are also concerned that the activity on the base will have ring-fenced effects on land. On the part of the Committee, there is a clear intention that as much activity as possible should be based on Florø. Furthermore, the starting point for energy supply has been an important topic. The large picture is clear that the BKK area is characterised by overload and a strained force situation. In Sogn and Fjordane the situation is the opposite. What may be of profits within the BKK area is a maximum of temporary and will disappear as planned improvements to the network come. It is therefore both important and right that the electricity supply be added to Luteland, as envisaged by the Committee. One bonus is that this also provides opportunities for further development in the area. This is subject to technical feasibility and environmental soundness. It is that it is possible to obtain power abroad in time for the planned start of production to be carried out without delay. This is not a prior approval of new and necessary cable lines. Of course, the necessary environmental considerations will normally be addressed through the concession treatment. Here it is now important that all good forces in Sogn and Fjordane are planned, approved and built this project in time. I would also like to point out that the Oil Directorate characterises the extraction rate of the Gjøa project as low, and that an overall committee now supports a desire to increase it, and sees that this happens. With this, I recommend the position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2148	The rapporteur has presented the matter and the Committee's position in a very clear and thorough manner. However, I would like to stress that the expansion of the Gjøa, Vega and Vega South represents a great addition to our oil and gas production. Although these are not the very large expansions on the base, this expansion and later operating phases represent very large value creation in our country. For example, the investment costs of the expansion are only estimated to be NOK 26.7 billion, with annual operating costs of approx. $800 million. kr. I am concerned that every time we make such expansions, we should be aware of the oil industry’s ‘Bible’, which is the Petroleum Act. It tells us that we should take into account Norwegian business and industrial development, and that regional policy interests should weigh heavily. This applies to the assessments made, both by the builders and by the authorities, including government and magnification. Therefore, it has been a principle in the management of petroleum that resources should be under Norwegian control and that value creation should take place in Norway. That is why the Committee is also in its full right when we want the impact of the Gjøa development to benefit Sogn and Fjordane. We point this out through our remarks, which are clear leadership for the oil companies involved, the directorate and the ministry. We have a huge petroleum activity along our coast, not least outside Sogn and Fjordane, with e.g. Snorre, Gullfaks, Oseberg and Troll, but very little of this has led to rural activities in the county. Now, many people have a duty to do what they can to make the effect of Doing a success story for Sogn and Fjordane. The economy of Gjøa suggests that the considerations that the Petroleum Act requires us to take should be complied with. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has laid a good foundation, and we in the Committee have been very clear about what we want. The production processes on the platform, excluding gas-export gas compressor, shall be covered by shore-side electricity, as Borten Moe mentioned. With the scarcity of power you can get in Hordaland, it's a caution to pick up power to the platform from there. In Sogn and Fjordane, the situation is different, and there is a need to develop, for example: Luteland. Therefore, the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, also states that connection to the Luteland network should be based on whether it is technically feasible and environmentally sound. I do not have any information that would indicate that it is more difficult to choose Luteland technically or environmentally than other alternatives. There is also reason to stress that through this setting, Stortinget is clear that the logistics organisation with supply base and helicopter base, including the land organisation of operational support partners, is being added to Florø. This means that the bases are to serve as bases for supply, procurement for the operation and transport of personnel, and contain stock and workshop for both expansion and operation phases. All of this will provide good and timely development and operation, and communities with their legitimate share of activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2163	This is a matter in which the Committee broadly agrees. As regards the petroleum component, the Committee agrees. When it comes to the desire for power from land, we also agree. I don't think anyone in the committee is against trying to electrify more on the base. But what's important to underline in this picture is the force balance. Now the situation, in isolation, in this case is okay, according to BKK Nett. Where you're going to take out power, there's surplus, although there's a significant deficit in the region as a whole, but right now it's going to work fine. The kind of electrification of the socket that we're now seeing is also pretty timely, because here you're doing it no matter when you're building a new one. It is a reasonable time, unlike some environmentalists say, to electrify the entire base immediately – costing what it will cost. What is interesting is that in this case there is a total increase in petroleum activity in Norway. Even SV is on the team, and it says that certain parts are moving far to sit with the power. With regard to the synergies of land investment, there is broad consensus. Florø is becoming central in this matter. There will be a logistical node, and Gaz de France will focus on local ring effects beyond that. As far as the representative Asmund Kristoffersen was concerned, power supply and connection via Luteland, all parties have said that it is exciting to look at this possibility. It'll be a little wrong when Kristoffersen leaves out the Progress Party. What the Progress Party has pointed out, on the other hand, and I think it is a little strange that no one else has said anything about, is why you should choose the Luteland. In fact, it can be assumed that there is a fairly sound financial security in this, and that there is progress to maintain the profitability of the project. There's a lot in this world that's technically possible. The SFT has just submitted a report demonstrating the technical feasibility of implementing 22 pst. CO2 emissions in Norway — if you do not take costs into account. It's possible to send people to the moon every day, if you don't take costs into account. But if you take costs into account, that doesn't necessarily make sense. I think it's possible to get a lot strange on Luteland that can be realized in this context. But that a committee without a single argument says that one should do this if it's only technically possible, without thinking about costs, progress and other things, without a single reservation, I think it's quite strange. I hope that will not be the way to pursue district policy in the oil industry in the future. The only proposal that one should actually vote on in addition to approving the case is a proposal from the opposition that one should evaluate the regulation on wiring and high voltage lines in large power lines. In this case, it is suggested that one should pull 90 km of power lines to get electricity from the Luteland. And that's for everyone. But when you know what kind of level of conflict it often becomes in such matters, and as some have pointed out exists in the Luteland, but which exists not least elsewhere in the region, I think it would be in place that an overall committee was behind a proposal that does not oblige anyone to take a position beyond that one will look at today's legislation. It would be very much in line with what almost all the parties' national meetings have adopted this spring, namely that one should try to reduce the level of conflict. One shall consider whether the legislation is as good as it should be when drawing new power lines. And if there's any possibility that a cable might occasionally preserve nature, it's positive. Then it is strange that the government parties, which at their national meetings have been most offensive in relation to this very topic, choose to say no to such an evaluation. I'm not going to go into that debate any more, because we've had an interview about that. Then there were a lot of people who wanted everyone who lived with these issues close by, who said good luck and that you should look at the matter. Now one looks at the matter, and then one votes against. It's sad. But now that we're approaching midnight, we can all enjoy what's now happening at Doua and Vega. One can send greetings to Sogn and Fjordane and wish them luck with what is going to happen in Florø. As almost Stavanger-boy, I know how much good oil can bring with me. It's not just black, it's coming up. I also believe that the representative of Langeland will agree with that. Then I hope that the Council of State will address a little bit of the criteria that he lays down in the wording ‘technically possible’ and ‘connection’. On behalf of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party, I address the proposal of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2186	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2189	The Gjøa and Vega fields are located off the coast of the West, just north of the Trollfield, in what we call the mature area of the Norwegian continental shelf. It shows that even though we have entered a so-called mature phase of oil and gas production, we are still facing exciting and challenging projects, including a mature part of the base. Although the large fields such as Oseberg, Troll and Statfjord have been developed, there is still a significant potential for petroleum extraction in smaller fields such as Gjøa and Vega. One thing that makes the expansion of Make especially exciting is that most of the electrical power in the field will consume the platform is planned to be covered with electricity from land. Compared to a solution where all power is produced from gas turbines on the platform, this results in reductions in annual CO2 and NOx emissions equivalent to 50 000 to 100 000 tonnes of CO2 and 50 to 100 tonnes of NOx, respectively. The petroleum industry accounts for approx. a quarter of Norwegian climate emissions, and this sector has experienced the strongest increase in recent years. Electrification of the socket is therefore an important climate action. We in the Right will therefore give Statoil credit because they have chosen to add electricity from land to the Gjøa platform. Statoil proposes in its plan for the expansion and operation of Gjøa to supply the platform with power from Mongstad. This is one good solution. From 2010, the Mongstad power plant will be in place with a significant increase in power generation. Due to local bottlenecks in the power grid, the power supply to Gjøa will also make good use of the power system around Mongstad. But Gjøa's power supply also opens up another exciting project on land, namely the Luteland in Sogn and Fjordane, where a large new industry is planned in an otherwise economically poor area. If this is to be realised, it depends on good power supply and gas supply to the area. I therefore think it is wise that the NVE has now asked Statoil to unravel connections with Luteland as an alternative power supply. A prerequisite for this should, in any case, be to choose a gentle way of powering and to avoid shattering power lines in beautiful and vulnerable western nature. In this context, I refer to the comments and suggestions made in the case, and like Solvik-Olsen, it is strange that, in particular, the SV and the Central Party in this case are not at their national meeting decisions. But SV is no longer what it was. The proposition we are dealing with here today is going to be adopted unanimously. It has not always been the case in such cases. When I joined the Energy and Environment Committee in the previous period, it was quite common for SV to vote against proposals for the development of oil and gas fields. I remember how SV argued and fought against both Snow White and Kristin, as they had voted against Åsgard, Heidrun and Norne in earlier periods. Now SV has become a pious lamb in the petroleum policy – this despite the fact that Gjøa will also release produced water, for which SV was so afraid in the past. Now we have Kristin Halvorsen, who is talking about financial accountability. We have a Hallgeir Langeland, which goes into all road projects, and we have a Heidi Sørensen, which is for increased petroleum extraction. Who would have thought that in the last period? In opposition, SV would reduce the pace of oil exploration and the development of new oil and gas fields, while increasing investment in renewable energy sources and in research and education in particular. In government, they do the opposite. SV now vote in favour of proposals for the development of new oil and gas fields, while reducing investment in new renewable energy sources and allowing research to take a break. Yes, indeed, the times are changing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2214	I think it's quite funny to listen to Right, I, when they keep posts and tell us about SV. There must be an easy way for the Right to be out of government, because now they can say – and do – something about politics. So I thought Halleraker felt he was being held out of government as long as he was sitting on the Stortinget. Then we can get it a little fun sometimes and want to get some political proposals that have something to do with them, which we have also started getting from the Right. So I want to say that I'm very happy that many people are busy with SV's position today, because what's real is that it's old, good SV policy we now adopt when it concerns electrification of the socket. SV has had it in his party program forever and has been ridiculed several times here in this room. We even had a deal with Halleraker and Bondevik II in 2002 about the climate plan, where we asked the government to come up with proposals for electrification, which they never made any special out of. But now it's happening today. It is good that Statoil and the Government and the parties are some about this, and that the Progress Party and the Right and those who have countered all the possible good environmental proposals are actually part of the SV team today. I appreciate that. Then I will also ask the Energy and Environment Committee, and not least those who are concerned with electrification, to go into new projects. BP has difficult electrification projects in a different sector. They want to get help from the oil and energy minister and the government to get electrification going there. So here it's just to continue the good policy that one now has begun, which is historical today. I hope that not least the old opposition parties will be further involved in the progress of environmental policy made by this government in many cases. And then finally I'll just say two things. This is a big day for us in the government, because we now get to electrification. It is also the case that we have other projects from SV's side that we would like to have developed, for example. that which Halleraker called concerning Kristin and Grane, which we should have opposed. But what we did was we wanted to have CO2 deposition and gas power plants with CO2 capture offshore to produce the power out there on those projects. So probably Halleraker and others think that SV voted for the Worm Lange, but we strongly warn all parties against building out there without thinking about the force balance, which now all inclusive Right, and not least Børge Burnde, talk about when they're out of government offices. So this is a big day for SV and a big day for us in the government, because we can file such a case. I agree entirely with the remarks made by Kristoffersen and the case-speaker Borten Moe, and as I said – I repeat myself – if positive things are to happen to link up with the environment in Norway, it is important that a retain the red-green government and keep the Progress Party and the Right and others out of government, otherwise nothing happens that is of a positive nature kneading up to environmental and climate issues – even if everyone outside the Progress Party now agrees that 2/3 should be cut in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2237	It was interesting to hear the conclusion of the SV representative – that all parties with the exception of the Progress Party are to cut 2/3 in Norway. Then perhaps the cat came out of the bag in relation to the Workers' Party's view of what is coming in the climate action plan in a few weeks. But on to the matter we are discussing today. Today, when we approve plans for the expansion and operation of the Gjøa, Vega and Vega south and allow the installation and operation of the pipeline for these fields, we open a new area in the North Sea for oil and gas production. Now it is the case that any expansion of oil and gas activities will result in emissions to nature. In this way, this installation also contributes in isolation to increased climate emissions. But at the same time, it's important to have an overall perspective on the activity on the socket. The development of Gjøa and Vega thus contributes to the maintenance of our oil and gas production. From an environmental point of view, it is interesting to add to a partial electrification of production on Gjøa with electricity from land. Such an assessment is desirable for all future expansion projects on the base, as this will represent a significant reduction in climate emissions compared to stationary generators. The electrification of Norwegian petroleum activities is and should be a central instrument in order to manage to reduce our enormous climate emissions. The low-emission committee also has this as one of its key actions in its report to us. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the production of Gjøa is partly electrified. Then we have a debate about where the flow will come from. The Christian People's Party has a lot of understanding of choosing Mongstad as a power source. It probably provides the best operational security in terms of power supply, but at the same time the Christian People's Party is open to consider trajectory choices other than a sea cable straight from Mongstad. We note that the NVE has asked for an investigation of alternative energy connections from Luteland in Sogn and Fjordane, and it is important to see this in the context of the overall security of supply in the region. The Christian People's Party believes that if connection via Luteland is technically possible and environmentally sound, then this solution should be chosen. However, it is appropriate to point out that cable and line running via Luteland may have negative environmental consequences. This trajectory option may also delay the project and lead to a less secure operational situation. These are considerations that belong to the assessment that we are currently carrying out, which we expect to respond to when it is available. The question of cable and line way options via Luteland also raises the question of increased use of sea and earth cables in the development of power supplies. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government has to evaluate the current legislation on cabling, and we are therefore involved in the minority proposal in the vote on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2257	First, I would like to thank the case spokesperson for a very good and thorough examination of this important matter, an important matter not least for Sogn and Fjordane. Left joins the resource development plans on the left hand side. There are major positive effects related to the project in terms of employment and industrial activity. We have noted that the Ministry of Development can be carried out within an acceptable framework for the environment, fisheries and security. The production of Yeast, Vega and Vega Southern resources, which others have been in, will lead to relatively large annual emissions to air, corresponding to 142 000 tonnes of CO2, 150 tonnes of NOx and 70 tonnes of VOC. There are quite large emissions, when we know that we have a lot of commitments to reduce climate change emissions in the future. But fortunately, the image is better than it could have been. It is very positive that the power demand of the platform is mainly covered by power cables from land. This is a very important environmental measure on the base, which should be more useful in relation to new but also existing installations. Future deployment projects should always assess the rationality of electricity from land, as this would represent a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to stationary generators. From a societal environmental point of view, such assessments should weigh heavily. In connection with electrification, the NVE has asked Statoil to provide alternative energy connections from Luteland in Sogn and Fjordane. I have to say that it is very positive that alternative power supply is being provided. If connection via Luteland is technically possible – I’m not a technician, but I can’t think of anything that would prevent it – and if it’s environmentally sound, at least the Left suggests that the solution via Luteland is chosen. In this context, the Left believes, in the same way as the other parties involved in the proposal that is being put forward, that the Government must carry out an evaluation of the current legislation on cabling, in particular with regard to the preservation of important natural and cultural values, and present this as a matter of its own to the Stortinget, as is apparent from the proposal. The left has noted that the lease of the operating organisation is intended for Gaz de France to its operating organisation in Stavanger, but that GdF’s logistic organisation will be added to Florø, with supply base and helicopter base to serve as bases for supplies, operational purchase, transport of personnel and storage/ workshop both during the development and operation phase. In addition, I understand that GdF requires the partner to co-locate with GdF’s logistics department in Florø, which is also very important for the area. The left is very pleased that a collective committee is so clear about the base activities in Florø. This is an important signal for both the builder and the operator, and it is an important signal to the business community in the Florø region and to the entire Sogn and Fjordane counties. Left supports the Committee's view that the operator should consider in the long term the possibilities for adding to Florø major parts of the FYROM. The left suggests that Sogn and Fjordane have too much to do in the shadow when it comes to the development of the industry associated with the extraction of oil and gas just outside own ‘stood door’. The Committee's comments on this matter express clear expectations that the shadow should end, which, in the view of the Left, is very pleasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2287	I am pleased that the Committee has endorsed the Government's proposal to extend Gjøa, Vega and Vega South. These are significant projects, which will make important contributions to the overall production and level of activity of the socket. Projects contribute to the development of an area where we do not currently have infrastructure, and there are great opportunities for the development of new resources and increased exploration activity in the area. For the annual allocations in predefined areas, several permits have been granted in this area. Hydro is the operator for the expansion and operation of Vega and Vega South. The operator responsibility for the development of Gjøa has been added to Statoil, while Gaz de France takes over as operator in the operational phase. Gaz de France established itself on a Norwegian base in 2001 and Gjøa is the company’s first operating company. I see it as very positive that new actors develop their activities and contribute to diversity and competition on the base. Most of the equipment on the platform will be power driven from land. The derogation is the compressor for gas exports, which will be operated with a gas turbine. This is an energy-efficient solution where heat from the gas turbine’s power generation is used in the production process. The solution also contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Compared to a ‘traditional solution’ where all power is produced on the platform, the planned solution results in reductions in annual CO2 and NOx emissions equivalent to 50000 – 100000 tonnes of CO2 and 50 – 100 tonnes of NOx. Statoil has assumed that Gjøa will be able to meet 42 MW of the power demand with force from land from the autumn of 2010 and that the platform will be connected to the power grid at Mongstad in Hordaland. Although the Gjøa power plant is smaller, it is important to see the project in the context of energy development in the region. Total electricity consumption in the area has increased strongly in recent years. It will continue to increase in the coming years. At the same time, there has been little new generation and transfer capacity in the area. This is why, among other things: the need for a comprehensive reinforcement of the transmission system in order to ensure adequate security of supply in the area. The concession request for cable between Gjøa and Mongstad is now processed under the Energy Act in NVE. In this context, the NVE has asked Statoil to investigate the Luteland in Sogn and Fjordane as an alternative network connection. In its examination of the concession application, the NVE makes an overall assessment of both projects. I would like to point out here that the concession treatment is independent of the handling of the landfill proposal. NVE also has several concession applications for network reinforcement projects in the West for treatment, including: Sima–Samnanger power line. The Government will place great emphasis on security of supply in the region in the treatment of the network reinforcement projects concerned. The majority of the members of the Committee on Energy and the Environment take the view that power from Luteland is chosen if technically possible and environmentally sound. The power supply to Gjøa and Vega will be properly and thoroughly assessed in the context of the concession treatment. I assume that it is a prerequisite that the solution, with force from Luteland, like the power from Mongstad, must be able to be implemented within the time frame of the Gjøa project, as the case-rapporteur emphasised in his statement. The Gjøa Operations Organisation is added to Gaz de France’s headquarters in Stavanger, but part of the operational organisation – operational support – is subcontracted. One condition for the subcontractor is that the land organisation is co-located with Gaz de France's activities in Florø. Gaz de France adds the logistics organisation for Gjøa to Florø, with supply base and helicopter base. The operator also wants to provide new jobs through the prequalification of local businesses in Sogn and Fjordane. This offers new opportunities for the growth and development of local suppliers. I am very pleased that the deliveries to Gjøa, Vega and Vega South, which come in addition to the deliveries to Snorre and Visund, will contribute to the further strengthening of the supply and helicopter base in Florø. Developments will contribute positively in the region and provide new opportunities for the growth and development of long-term and locally anchored businesses. The development of Gjøa, Vega and Vega South is one of the biggest developments in the years to come, leading to an area development of a part of the socket that does not have infrastructure today. The fields are expected to be long and lead to significant ring-effects both nationally and regionally. These projects show that Norwegian pedestal still has a lot to offer. Finally, to Borten Moe’s question on gas reporting in the light of the Stortingen decision in connection with Statfjord late-stage: The work on such an overall review is now ongoing and will be submitted to Stortinget in the next year, i.e. 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2320	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2323	As the Council of State had in mind, the Committee has asked for alternative power supplies to be explored. The other parties have said that connection via Luteland should be chosen as long as technically and environmentally possible. Now the council also said that he would include a time dimension in that context, and that makes sense. The question is: will it include an economic dimension when making the choice and when will this option be selected?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2328	The NVE has requested that that investigation be carried out relatively quickly by Statoil, and to me it is actually important that what the NVE has asked for is done, precisely for the sake of security of supply in the Bergen area, where the power situation is strained. That is also the background for the NVE asking for this alternative investigation. So the most important thing in this context is actually the time perspective. As has been said, in particular: It is also a considerable responsibility for the actors in Sogn and Fjordane to be able to contribute on this side. Costs are, of course, almost impossible to comment on at this point in time. In fact, the most important thing in this context is the time aspect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2333	President! Do I get another line if no one else draws?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2338	Mr Solvik-Olsen has the floor for a new line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2341	The Committee also states that a wish to use Florø as much as possible during the deployment phase. Some have pointed out that there is no capacity for it, so you have to do something about the capacity in Florø. What does the Council of State do to ensure its follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2346	As the Committee has stressed, it is possible to extend the capacity of Florø. It also assumes that during the deployment phase the operator will follow up as requested by the Storting and assess the possibilities available. And of course, as the Council of State, I would also like to make sure that the decisions of the Stortinget are taken, and what the Stortinget is asking for, are implemented, as far as it is practically possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2351	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2356	Outside the coast of Sogn and Fjordane there are, happily, large resources of oil and gas. The Tampen field alone has almost 30 pst. of Norwegian petroleum resources. By contrast, when it comes to employment, the counting of Sogn and Fjords is very weak. Only 1 pst. of those working in the petroleum sector, belong in this state. We can therefore conclude that there is a strong imbalance between the share of resources and activity. Petroleum slova states that the development of oil and gasfields in Norway will also address the issue of district management. In the declaration underpinning the Government's work, it is pointed out that: ‘The agreed pattern of the operating and base structure of the oil sector shall be firm and actively used for new developments on the base’. The development and operation of the Fertiliser and Vega fields is also about how the ringing effects become for the area closest to these petroleum resources. I note that the Committee on Energy and the Environment has done an important job on this matter. Clear improvements have been made in several areas in relation to the design outlined in the proposition. I'm going to give you credit for that, and it was absolutely necessary. The expansion operator Statoil has proposed that the supply of electrical energy should be provided by Mongstad. The operator shall now determine an alternative with energy supply from the Luteland in Fjaler Municipality. The message from the majority in the Committee and in Stortinget is as follows: The electricity supply shall be provided from Luteland if technically possible and environmentally sound. I assume that the Minister of Oil and Energy loyally follows up the case in accordance with the expectations of Stortinget. In the case of development supplies, the Committee notes that planned supplies will mainly be provided by Florø. It shall apply both to the construction of the Do and Vega. It's a different reality than the expansion operators have added. All transportation of helicopter personnel should have taken place from Florø at both the operational and deployment phases. The majority in the committee believe it is curative to increase the capacity of Florø, so that all planned staff transport can take place from there even during the development phase. I'm interpreting it so that this point of view covers both extensions. The helicopter exposure time must be reduced. It was an eloquent conclusion in connection with Norne's accident. That will be the best that can be drawn on an excursion from Florø. The operational organisation has a key function in the development and operation of oil and gas fields. The Committee points out that there are good reasons why both logistical and technical leasing of the operating organisation should be located in Florø. The development operator shall facilitate this as far as possible. In this area, too, the Committee is clearly going beyond the proposal. I base myself on the fact that the Minister of Oil and Energy is actively and loyally following the expectations and leads of the majority in Stortinget. I promise that in time, too, I will have a great deal of commitment to the cause.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2378	We have a goal that the activity on the base should provide ring-fences in terms of competences and jobs on land. The county that I represent has much of the petroleum resources just off the coast. Nevertheless, there is only one missing small part of the workplace in the industry. We know that in Sogn and Fjordane there was a great desire for the landing of gas to the county. It's a favorite I share, but when other solutions are chosen here, it's central that the expansion gives other ringing effects to the county. The Government has made a thorough proposal that the Committee has supplemented with important comments and clarifications. It has been clearly established that Florø should be the starting point for bases for supply, operational purchase, transport of personnel and storage/shop in both the development and operation phases of both Gøa, Vega and Vega south. Furthermore, it is important that a large majority in the Committee assume that the flow of Gjøa is to be drawn from Luteland, if technically possible. It is not just a reasonable energy policy decision. It also opens up the further development of an exciting industrial area. This is a bonus that we have to enjoy. Governments have previously arranged for a connecting point on the pipeline to go to Mongstad, as well as a dimension of the line which allows gas to be delivered to Sogn and Fjordane. It also helps to strengthen the chances of development in Luteland, and it is to be commended by the Council of State. Then it is determined that the logistic part of the Gaz de France operating organisation will be located in Florø, and the company has indicated that they will require the operating support operator to be co-located with the logistic organisation of Gaz de France in Florø. This has been underlined by the Committee. It is of particular interest that the Committee decides that the operator should also facilitate the creation of the technical part of the operating organisation to Florø and, in the long term, even larger parts of the operating organisation. This is joyous and will enhance the competence that is operating in Florø today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2396	I have to comment on some of what Solvik-Olsen brought up in his post. Among other things, he problemated this with a lack of power in the BKK area. If you had gone in and read the letters we have received, you would have seen that there is no one who disagrees with the fact that the BKK area as such has a large and, after a dramatic loss of power. But it's true that there's a power loss/power surplus behind the so-called cut. If you read the rest of the letter, you'll see that the cuts are planned to be repaired, not least the section called Mongstad-Kolsnes. It will make it no longer a surplus of force on Mongstad, and this is planned to be completed in 2011. All the time spent in service in October 2010, there is talk in three months of such a theoretical situation. Otherwise, there would be a significant deterioration in the security of supply in the BKK area, while at the same time not taking out the power of which you have too much in Sogn and Fjordane. That's why, at least when you come from Trundellag and now you learn what bad planning on the force side has to say when the Worm starts without new production, that we have to at least make sure that we don't do the same losses here. It seems that the Progress Party has a desire to do. So Solvik-Olsen makes some reasoning about electrification of the socket, and says that the propulsion part is for electrification of the socket because in some cases it may make sense. I am not sure how much the Progress Party believes you want to electrify the Norwegian base. At least you haven't been particularly progressive in that area before. It has not been intended to use the instruments that have been necessary, either in the case of CO2 taxes or in the case of allowances. I'm absolutely sure you're going to be able to electrify the socket in a reasonable way, you have to want it, and you have to give the signals from this house in order for it to happen. That is why I am pleased that the work done by Statoil and others is so widely welcomed. When it comes to the wiring problem, I think you talk to two tongues. There you say on the one hand that you need a review of the legislation, and on the other hand you say that you have to think about the economic consequences. That is basically what today's policy is, and you have the opportunity to wire all the high-voltage lines in Norway. That is, of course, technically possible. It's a matter of costs, as Solvik-Olsen so beautifully expressed it. Then it might be more honest to say what distances you want to cable, and what distances you don't want to cable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2414	Sometimes it seems like the representative Borten Moe is being made to misunderstand in order to create debate, and I'm usually stupid enough to bite at. Let me first reflect a little bit on what the Council of State has said. The Council of State has therefore agreed to the comment of the Progress Party on this matter. He shall take account not only of technical and environmental aspects but also of economics and progress. It's very nice. It shows that the Council of State is acting in good faith and thinks through what he is doing, instead of the majority in the committee, which writes something that is obviously not well thought out. Now I look forward to NVE's work. I look forward to getting a good report and getting hope and cross my fingers for Luteland and that we can get something established there. Then you also get to hope that the climate quota law that the Stortinge will adopt next week does not become as strict as the Government has set up, so that all the companies that could expect to establish themselves in the Luteland do not get a single climate quota and will therefore not find the economic start-up either. So for electrification. The part of progress has been positive for electrification. I don't understand why the representative Borten Moe will later be the opposite. What we've said, and which is in line with the majority view, is that we have to do it when it makes sense, and not like the representative Langeland, as later on, as if you can do it when it suits you, just because it's symbolically important, regardless of cost, regardless of the remaining lifetime of the field, and regardless of whether it's technically possible in the short term. I refer you here to Document No of the Progress Party. 8-proposal for measures to comply with the Kyoto Agreement, which mentions the electrification of the socket. So to high-spent politics. If that's how the Borten Moe is so satisfied with today's high-spent policy, why did the Senter Party need a long resolution on the topic just to point out that there were many issues here that had to be stressed? If that's the way politics actually works, then it's no use having a resolution at a national meeting, not actually at two or three government parties' national meetings, either, if politics works. It is a practice to address in resolutions policies and situations that one is not so satisfied with. This is precisely why the Progress Party and the rest of the opposition have looked at the possibility of carrying out an evaluation, so that the voice of the Central Party’s national meeting is heard and not just ignored, as the representative Borten Moe does here. Finally, a small visit to the representative of Langeland. It is possible he let go of a news that no one else but he himself knew, that now it is only the Advance Party that does not want a two-thirds cut. But the fact is that until the Workers' Party turns around, there's a large majority in this room to implement a CO2 cut where one gets the most out of it. There is a large minority who believe that there are geographical boundaries to apply to the cuts. So one should take into account who constitutes the majority in that particular case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2432	The next speaker is the representative Ola Borten Moe. As Borten Moe moves towards the pulpit, the president will once again remember the time. We have at least half an hour of voting after the case card has been concluded, and the President does not consider it to be particularly democratic when there are too many debates and voting in the middle of the night.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2437	I'll be very short. In the case of wiring, existing policy for wiring opens up where specific environmental considerations speak for it. It's not like you have to change an instruction or a policy. What the Central Party's national meeting asked for was that these assessments were made on a case-by-case basis, and then we gave a signal that we would focus more on the environmental consequences. Then we experience that the Progress Party is drawing this up and saying that a new policy should be pursued. And then you say, on the other hand, you have to take the cost into account. My point is that then you better be honest and say where you want it to be wired, and where you want the lines to go in the air, as they do today. As regards the country of Lute, it is stated in the majority opinion that it can be chosen if it is ‘technically possible and environmentally sound’. It's defined to go on time. It is the clear order from Stortinget to the Council of State, which the Council of State is of course expected to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2446	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 31. [[See page 3722]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2462	As rapporteur on this matter, I would like to make a relatively brief statement on the position of the Committee on Development, Operation and Further Development on the Valhalla area in the North Sea. The Valhalla field is a significant petroleum field in the North Sea. The field was approved by Stortinget as early as 1997, only six years after the first oil production in Norway started in Ekofisk in 1971. The production start of the Valhalla field was in 1982. Today, after a total of 25 years of production, the Valhalla area still has significant extractable petroleum reserves. I think it's worth noting that initially the extractable reserves in the Valhalla field were estimated at 40 million Sm3 oil equivalents. Per. However, on 1 January 2007, a total of 118 million Sm3 oil equivalents had been produced, i.e. nearly three times what was originally the estimated extractable reserves in this field. Today, the remaining reserves in the Valhalla field are calculated for a total of 76 million Sm3 oil equivalents, which is around twice the total petroleum reserves originally intended for the Valhalla field to contain 30 years ago. This is interesting to notice, and you have to think of this as very happy. Already in 1984 it was discovered that the seabed of the Valhalla area had begun to sink, and until today the seabed has dropped by 5.7 m because of the petroleum extraction. This presents significant challenges for operators. This sinking of the seabed means that if the remaining extractable petroleum resources are to be picked up, the existing petroleum installations in the field must be dealt with. Unless measures related to sinking are implemented now, oil production in the Valhall field will fall by a total of 28 pst. per 1 % years, and a closure of the field will have to take place as early as 2009. However, the closure of the Valhalla area is not desirable at all as long as the field still has significant extractable petroleum reserves. These realities lead to the need for action, and it has been seen as economically profitable to build a new field centre in order to increase the rate of exploitation and extend the lifetime of the Valhalli field. The new field centre is based on a new integrated production and housing platform and the addition of a new supply cable from the List of 78 MW. Production start of the new platform installations calculated until the end of the third quarter of 2010. After expansion, the export capacity will reach 120,000 barrels of oil per year. daily and 4.1 million Sm3 gas per day. 24 hours. A unanimous committee joins the content of St. Prp. No 76 for 2006-2007 on the development and operation of Valhalla further development. The Committee is of the opinion that this is a good project for several reasons. Among other things, cable electricity from land and the use of the torch gas mean that CO2 emissions will be reduced by a total of 97 pst, from 450000 tonnes of CO2 per. to about 15 000 tonnes per year. years after further development. The Committee has also noted that the present value of the project is estimated at NOK 27.6 billion based on a balance sheet price of USD 23 per year. barrel. Overall, the Committee considers the development, further development and continued operation of the Valhalla area to be a very good project in the Norwegian petroleum industry and, for these reasons, recommends the unanimous recommendation of the Government in this matter. I recommend this, as the rapporteur, to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2501	The rapporteur has given a thorough account of this matter. What he says, we end up with, of course. I will not add that much, but I took the floor in the matter because it is necessary to stress, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that in many ways there is a little historical suspense of the unanimous vote by the committee on decisions this evening. We are going to decide what has been in many ways a work horse on a Norwegian pedestal for many years. The teams have done an excellent job out there, and it's brought a lot of money into the treasury, into the community, to develop the Norwegian community. Then the same thing happens here as in the Ekofisk field, that it's a significant sinking – 5.7 m from start-up. That's a lot. Then there were situations last winter, when there was disturbing weather, which means that you have to shut down the field if you don't do anything. Therefore, I think the operators are early on track, are forward-looking in their views on what is going to happen, and thus lay the basis for new investments in a field they see themselves still to have large production by 2049. It says respect. What I also think is important to stress, as the rapporteur said, is that operators, among other things. BP, has been active and seen what needs to be done in relation to the environmental challenges we have on Norwegian soil. Now electrifying the field from 2009 and deploying cable from West Agder states to the field will lead to a formidable reduction of CO2 emissions, a total of 97 pst, while at the same time the NOx will decrease significantly, with more than 90 pst. Not least, as one representative has mentioned earlier in another case, the injection of water into the seabed will result in much less emissions. So overall, I think this is a good thing, and it is a very forward-looking case now that the electrification is inside the picture, and we will have a significant reduction in emissions. With these words I would like to say that this matter deserves to be started immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2516	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-two. [[See page 3723]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2532	The Ombudsman gives an annual report on the activities of the Defence Officer to the Defence Officer. This is too many, and perhaps especially for Stortinget, an interesting and important document. Here we can read about the business, both what's positive, and what the defense might not have been equally lucky with. The purpose of the Ombudsman is to contribute to ensuring the general human rights of defence personnel and to dealing with matters of a general nature or of general interest. The Committee is committed to the inclusion in its activities of contributing to the effectiveness of defence and recalls that this purpose and result have been achieved through previous years’ documents from the subject. The Committee notes with concern that five inspections carried out in 2006 revealed that the economic/accounting procedures in the defence did not appear to function properly. We have noticed that many departments have vacant posts that are not occupied, and in this context we are concerned that the reductions in annual work can make the organisation vulnerable to the protection provisions Health-Environment-Security, and see the issue in the view that there has been too much focus on the number of heads in the Defence, and too little focus on the tasks to be solved. We are therefore satisfied that this seems to be an improved situation. At the same time, it is essential to maintain good control of developments in the operational costs of the defence. The Committee notes that problems of access to doctors, nurses and nurses are still not satisfactorily resolved. Like the Committee, the Committee is concerned that the soldiers will receive a satisfactory medical offer during the service. The Committee welcomes the fact that the issue of damage to international operations has also been at the heart of the work of the committee in 2006. Otherwise, we note that poor reporting on the disciplinary situation has also been alarming in 2006, and agree with the fact that the lack of reporting is unacceptable. The Committee is concerned about this situation and assumes that these are corrected matters. The Committee notes that in 2006, the Ombudsman dealt with 78 registered complaints against 106 cases the year before and records these positive developments. We take for information that the conversion and downsizing in the defence have not resulted in any increase in the number of written complaints from the order, nor is there any significant increase in the number of complaints from civilians in the defense. The Committee notes that the results of the 2006 Safety Obligations Survey show a positive trend, that the initial service is perceived as meaningful, and that the well-being of the individual is generally increasing, which is important. As a special remark, the Progress Party notes that there is a manifest and general dissatisfaction with the arrangements for horizontal interaction. We're worried about these signals. Horizontal interaction has been one of the core changes in defence logistics, and we are surprised that such an introduction continues to cause dissatisfaction. The Party assumes that the Ministry of Defence will carry out a continuous quality assurance and assessment of the established procedures and quality tools and that this will therefore not be a challenge in the future. The Progress Party also looks with concern at the fact that critical aspects have been identified regarding the working situation and safety of the data subjects, and expects this to be addressed and addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2558	I would like to commend the Ombudsman for a very good and transparent communication, which gives a good picture of the situation. I am particularly pleased that the denominator is concerned with the family policy of the Defence Agency, and that the conclusion is clear that this has made good improvements in 2006. Family life, safety and predictability are important core values for all occupational groups. The defence staff must also be able to combine a professional career with a good family life. I'm glad that a lot of positive happens in this area, and I feel reassuring that the denominator focuses so strongly on these conditions. I have no doubt that these are matters that will be crucial to the recruitment of the Defence in the years to come. I also regard the duty of protection as very important in order to recruit professionals for our future defence. In this context, it is very gratifying, as the rapporteur pointed out, that the results of the 2006 Safety Survey show a positive direction, that the initial service is perceived as meaningful, and that the individual thrives in Defence. I also believe it is very important that women are now invited to a session. When approx. At the end of 2006, 6 500 women had agreed to a voluntary session, it is clear that time is ripe to take further action in this context. More and more people see it as a international right that women should have this right equal to men. A lot could have been mentioned in this context, but I will finish by saying that I believe that the defence works well today. We know that there are still major changes and changes in defence. In this context, it's important that we have all the sides of the matter with us, including the human. I am reassured that the Ombudsman is following this development so closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2571	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-three. [[See page 3723]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2587	This matter is simple and calls for nothing but a recommendation. But it also unfortunately illustrates a point that I'm just going to spend a few minutes on. This is a very simple matter. The proposition is reasonably concise; it may not have taken many minutes to write it. Nor may it have taken many minutes to calculate the amounts to be allocated. And I'm recording that these calculations have been made on the basis of the state wage settlement that was completed many weeks ago. On that basis, it is strange that this case was first referred to in Stortinget three days ago. What the ministry has done to it for so long, that's a question. This is unfortunately a known phenomenon. In the public debate, the transport aviation case, which is being discussed on Tuesday, has been discussed, where the opposition parties in the committee were given three and a half days to prepare their recommendations for their groups. When the session was extended, we got a few more days. But this was the ministry's arrangement. We also see it in the case that will be dealt with tomorrow, granting UNIFIL 2, where the department had promised to complete the proposition early in 2007. It did not happen, but it was smuggled into the revised national budget several months after the end of the mission, so that one could get the impression that the budget is summarising, and then put forward proposals. I don't think this is very satisfactory, and I would like to ask the Council of State if she thinks that she is doing well to facilitate the Storting's handling of defence issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2598	The intrusion in January is described as having been experienced by the worst Swedish Defence Agency. 13 412 young men and women were called in – 275 pst. more than was needed. Half got a postponement. 4,865 met for indentation, but already after a week one third had been sent home. Why do I say this in a debate on regulation for additions etc. to designated compulsory teams? The fact is, fewer and fewer of our boys are serving the duty of protection, while all parties are saying to increase the status and make it fairer to serve the duty of protection. The Progress Party believes that it is not enough to increase the service supplement by NOK 4 per day. Then it's not enough to increase the corporal supplement by half a dollar a day – for those who have it. Then it's not enough to increase the educational bonus by 50 cents a day for those who are under education. And it's also not enough to increase the dispensation allowance by $798 for twelve months in a military uniform. That's 2.18 more cents per. Day in rise – not very impressive, I think. You might say, hey, it's increasing by 3.4 pst. Is good. But when we calculate 3.4 pst. of a very low income, this monies very little. Otherwise, the Progress Party will also very much regret that the Government also came very late in this matter, as the Progress Party sees it, and that we do not have enough time to deal with the matter satisfactorily. That is why the Progress Party is asking for the next time to come up with the cases so that the processing can be carried out in a proper manner. This is what they deserve, girls and boys, who serve the duty of protection. So maybe you could say that economics isn't everything to increase the status by earning the protection obligation. I agree with that, but it's part of it, and an important part.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2611	I'll be very short. As usual as the Stortinget has late evening meetings at the very end of the spring session, it is just as common that at this time we are dealing with the so-called soldier proposition, where we are making adjustments based on the wage settlement in the state. So this is not unusual. As there has been a complaint that we have had too little time, and that this has been too late, I have gone in and looked at what has happened in the last six years with the soldier's proposition. In fact, the soldier proposition has been treated at about the same time and with about the same deadlines in the last six years. So this is not unusual, and we have to do this. It is said that the defence committee does not have so much pressure – so this would be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2620	I would like to stress that I am concerned about facilitating that there will be good proceedings in Stortinget. Nevertheless, we also need to comply with laws, regulations and adopted regulations when, for example, we are dealing with the issue of the protection of the environment. the soldier’s proposition, which is a consequence of salary settlement, is not limited to 3,4 pst. in the department and send to Stortinget. That matter shall concern several other departments for quality assurance and consultation. That's why it takes some time, and so it's also very common for it to be presented at this time. So that was the question of whether we could come up with the other things earlier. With regard to UNIFIL, we have announced that that operation was one of those to be further financed, and we have then included it in the revised national budget. In terms of the investment proposition, it comes every one of us, as an addition to the budget. I see very well that the big case there that concerns new transport planes had been desirable that Stortinget had got better time on. I am glad that the Stortinget and the Defence Committee have also conducted a hearing on this matter. But I would also like to say that the quality assurance of the transport aircraft was carried out until the day before it went to the State Council, and it was not very easy then to get to Stortinget with it before the matter had been to the State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2629	I'm sorry to have to spend time on this in the middle of the night on the next day, but it's been months since we've had things that have made it possible to get into dialogue with the Council of State on this kind of thing. The soldier proposition is not the big question. We are significantly more effective than the government machine in terms of it, so we do it despite the deadlines. What's the point here, is that all of the things we've had have been treated this way. When I discuss the matter of UNIFIL now and not tomorrow, it is because the government itself, in written reply to the committee, said that the matter should be brought before us early in 2007. It hasn't happened. I think you've just forgotten what you've written, if I understood the Council's answer correctly. It would have been useful to get the matter as the government promised us. As regards the investment proposition, it must be remembered that the Storting must also have time to deal with a case. It's not just the government's problems that are crucial. If you do not manage to set up a treatment course that allows opposition parties to have more than three and a half days on cases — even if they are curative — then there is something wrong with the treatment system itself. I want to insist that you maybe think through these things. It's not good that we're here at noon. 00.30 a.m. on the night of the day before the Storting should split up, the first dialogue with the Council of State in four months.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2642	The President must correct: it is almost 01.00. Well, that's what a lot is saying. The President will recall what is in the Rules of Procedure, namely that one should debate what is at issue. And now we're dealing with the regulation of the crew's wages.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2647	I won't say many words at this time of day. I still hear that we have to try to make ourselves more efficient, as opposed to what the government has done in the last cases. I join the committee leader, Jan Petersen, when he criticizes what has been done – or what has not been done. It surprises me that Signe Eye can say that this is common, as it has been done in the last six years. There is then no excuse for not being able to improve. We have to do this, she says. - Yeah, we'll make it. The Committee is of the opinion that these matters are important to them. That's why we grab them and get them away, to say it like this. I think this last matter, about the soldiers and their income, deserves a completely different and thorough treatment. Although the matter may seem simple at first, it is very large and important for them. As the chairman of the Committee said in the case of transport aircraft, it is critical that the Government and the Council of State deal with the Committee in this way. We feel that we are not getting a good enough job done. I hope you don't continue with this. We can't live with that kind of thing. We cannot at least treat transport aircraft as large and important as 4 billion kroner on a tight arm. That's how we feel -- some of us at least -- and I don't agree with that anymore. If it is to continue in this way, we must at all times be allowed to criticise the conduct of the Council of State and the Department.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2660	In my post, I was quite baffled with how little the soldiers got, and I had hoped that the Council of State could comment on it a little bit. Does the Council of State think it's raising the status of being a soldier for 12 months to increase the distribution allowance by 2 dollars and 18 cents of the day? Does the Council of State think it's enough to raise the educational bonus by 50 cents a day? The Council of State thinks it's enough to get another 50 cents per. if you are a corporal and have extra responsibility? The Council of State thinks it's enough to get an extra $4 per cent. day of 12 months’ service — for those who are struggling?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2667	You can always make assessments about what's enough. The compensation for the soldiers has increased considerably lately, and we are concerned that it will also be increased in the future. For example: the disbursement allowance has been agreed in so far as it is with the guardians’ own trustees – and also an objective – that it should reach NOK 25 000. We see very well that real compensation for the soldiers is also important in order to increase the status of the guardians. This case concerns automatic regulation of the military compensation that is proportionate to the state wage settlement. The big debate may be taken in connection with the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2678	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. Thirty-four. [[See page 3723]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2696	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3724]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2714	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3724]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2732	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3724]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2752	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3724]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2760	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2768	In the course of the debate, 14 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Drafts No. 2 and 3, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the right and left. 4, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 5-11, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 12, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 13 and 14, from Leif Helge Kongshaug on behalf of the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 13 and 14 from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2813	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: 'The proposal for a new agricultural agreement is not accepted. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for transfers to the agricultural industry in the State budget following prior consultations between the relevant industry organisations and the Government.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2828	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-11, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2882	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to lift the concession limits in egg production.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2897	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e2921	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to intensify its efforts to develop niche and special agricultural products.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3138	The Progress Party and the Right have notified that they will vote against the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3155	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The proposal for a new reindeer management agreement is not accepted. The Government is asked to submit proposals for transfers to the reindeer industry in the State budget following previous consultations between the reindeer industry and the government.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3179	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3295	It is notified that the Progress Party and the Right will vote against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3312	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 31 May 2007: ‘The government is asked to present its own forecast of reindeer activity by spring 2008.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3328	President! I have voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3335	Then we take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3351	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 31 May 2007: ‘The decision asks the Government to carry out a conversion to stationary reindeer operations in West Finland.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3370	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 31 May 2007: «The Government requests the removal of Section 8 of FOR 2001-05-04 No 468: Regulation on compensation for losses and expenses incurred in the event of the killing or damage of domestic animals of the domestic species.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3389	During the debate Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to wind up the system whereby the State Agriculture Administration has the opportunity to raise objections to municipal land plans under the Planning and Building Act in cases where the State has objected to the use of the objection and the County Agriculture Board does not promote the objection.’; This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3415	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 11 June 2007: ‘The decision asks the Government to examine the consequences of implementing a rule allowing the courts to obtain the opinion of the ethical committee on patent cases.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3434	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 11 June 2007: ‘The ruling asks the Government to clarify the consequences of implementing a rule on the administrative review of the validity of patents.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3453	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e3916	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requires the Government to submit an obliging plan for a minimum pension of up to 2 times the basic amount.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4442	The vote will take place on the proposal from the Danish Prime Minister, Mr Kenneth Svendsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right and the Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 7 June 2007: ‘The decision requests the Government to draw up a checklist containing specific checkpoints which the contracting entity shall require to be documented by a manning entity or a subcontractor at the time of conclusion of the contract. The list may be based, inter alia, on the following points:(a) Evidence that the subcontractor has made a promise to comply with the remuneration and working conditions requirements of the General Regulations;(b) Evidence that the subcontractors are registered and have sent information to the tax authority;(ec) Documentation that the subcontractor is registered in the Brønnøysund Registers;(b) Requirements for the production of tax certificates;(c) Requirements for the production of company certificates from the home Member State.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4471	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 7 June 2007: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue its work on proposals to introduce an extended contracting authority’s liability under the Public Procurement Act, and to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with a concrete proposal detailing how to implement the responsibility.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4490	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 7 June 2007: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue its work on proposals to introduce transparency rights for trustees in pay and employment in areas subject to public service decisions and, as soon as possible, to make proposals that provide trustees, irrespective of whether they are associated with an organisation party to the public tariff agreement in question, such right of access.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4509	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Anders Anundsen, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 7 June 2007: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a new law on health schools that provides for equal treatment between schools irrespective of ownership, both in terms of the economy and the recognition of school offers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4528	There is a vote on proposals submitted by the Odelstinget meeting on 7 June 2007: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a separate case on the grant schemes once the review of the school calculation model has been completed.’ It is a unanimous committee behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4547	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 7 June 2007: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and by the end of 2008, at the latest, to return to Stortinget with a separate case on the future development possibilities, funding and place of vocational education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4566	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, transmitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 7 June 2007: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that accredited vocational schools are given the opportunity to set up study offers of a lower duration of up to one year as part of the student’s preparation for further vocational education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4585	In the course of the debate, 14 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 2 and 3, by Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 4-14, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4–14, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4676	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right View the correction next page. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a stand-alone roadside supervision to strengthen road safety work.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4697	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right View Correction Next Page. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to continue to work on extending the AutoPASS scheme to national road users.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4716	President! Proposals Nos. 2 and 3 are on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4723	Then we have to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4726	President! Proposal No. 2 shall be supported by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4731	That is when proposal No is voted on. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The Progress Party will support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4743	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4755	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party See the correction below. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to provide assessments of the National Centre of Competence for Traffic Behaviour Studies in the context of the 2008 State Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4774	The proposal is from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4781	Then we take the vote on proposal No. 1 again.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4804	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4833	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget authorises the implementation of the mentioned tribal and national road projects in the Haugaland package with State funding. The size assumes that this is done through the annual government budgets making the funds transferable so that individual projects can be carried out independently of budgetary mines.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4867	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Øyvind Halleraker on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 1 is converted by the proposers into transmission proposals and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government, in the light of the unambiguous responsibility of the toll companies for the financing and management of the loan portfolios for toll projects, ensure that the State does not require the toll companies to assume financial responsibilities to which they themselves have not agreed, contrary to the standard agreement between the State and toll companies.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4949	During the debate, Mr Sandberg put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4992	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e4995	‘1. The size asks the Government to submit a landfill proposal before the end of 2009 to resume the maintenance run in the road tunnels. Maintenance measures shall be implemented over 2 years and with an economic framework of 2 billion. kroner.2. The necessary appropriations shall be adapted to capacity and practical implementation by making the estimated total amount transferable.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5025	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the extension of security controls on air passengers and further restrictions on cabin baggage not to be implemented until a thorough assessment of the current regime has been carried out and before the consequences of any new measures have also been assessed in relation to privacy and service.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5049	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for the implementation of security measures and controls at aerodromes to be amended and implemented in such a way as to minimise delays, to provide good service to passengers and employees, and to persons who are not adversely affected by security controls.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5102	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party for Progress, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 5 June 2007: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a system of State co-financing for security and preparedness actions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5121	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from the Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling requests the submission by the Government of a case guaranteeing women the right to parental leave as at the previous birth, when there is less than 24 months between the pregnancies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5145	Proposal No. 2, from the right: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide different models of change in the Law on Social Security, which intends to grant the right to parental leave independently of the 6-month rule in relation to subsequent children, when children are born at short intervals.’ The Christian People’s Party and the Left have notified that they wish to support the proposal of the Right Subsidy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5188	During the debate, Olemic Thommessen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to take the initiative of authorising municipalities to refuse the placing of vending machines from Norwegian Typing A/S.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5214	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left from the Odelstinget meeting on 12 June 2007: ‘The government is asking the Government to come back to the Storting in an appropriate manner with supplementary legislative wording to a cultural law that better sees cultural action in the context by simplifying and bringing together today’s fragmented legislation in the field, and at the same time specifies the state cultural obligations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5233	During the debate Ketil Solvik-Olsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an evaluation of the law on the development of power lines, including guidelines for the choice of earth cable and air voltage, and to submit a case to the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5569	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 June 2007: ‘The Government is asking the Government to evaluate the functioning of the system of individual plans in the compensation provided for and to submit to it the evaluation with any proposals for necessary measures for the Storting at the latest in the autumn of 2008.’» The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5577	President! The Christian People's Party will also support the proposal. We will also support the proposal in substance. Thirty-eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5597	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 June 2007: ‘The Government is asked to consider and, if necessary, to submit proposals for a mental illness scheme which commits serious crime, the main responsibility of which lies with the criminal authorities for external security, leave schemes, etc. and psychiatry within these frameworks has the primary responsibility for treatment and care.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5616	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 11 June 2007: ‘The Government is requesting the introduction of a test scheme using GPS electronic monitoring as an aid to the criminal and police authorities in relation to those on trial. In the first instance, this should apply to repeaters and persons who have committed serious crime.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5635	A vote will be taken on proposals by the representative of the Grand Duchy of Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Right, sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 11 June 2007: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the establishment of a pilot project with a voluntary student collective that facilitates the book collection to become the arena for the rehabilitation of offenders of an appropriate age and that follows a day-to-day training offer.’ [[(see section 4.4). Denmark)]] The Left and Christian People's Party have announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-14-2.ana.ud1194e5659	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
