ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e61	The representative, Gunvald Ludvigsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e64	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande, Odd Einar Dørum and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on measures to combat sexual mutilation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e69	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e85	A few weeks ago, I met the head of the United Nations anti-AIDS organization, Peter Piot, in Geneva. It was a thought - provoking meeting. Until recently — from 1980 to 2000 — AIDS was a global epidemic that not only threatened to kill individuals but undermined entire communities. The poor part of the world had nothing to do with the AIDS epidemic. Treatment services for AIDS were considered completely impossible and so expensive in 2000 that it was not worth thinking about at all in developing countries. Now, just six years later, two million people in middle-income countries and low-income countries have been treated. More and more people are being treated and can live out their lives with the disease and hopefully die of something else in old age. The AIDS epidemic affects the most productive parts of the population, and getting people back to work with AIDS is therefore also an important part of creating economic progress. There is also room for treatment of other diseases in hospitals that were flooded with AIDS discs. And, perhaps the most joyful: a good number of African countries are now seeing a decline in the number of infected in the young coals. So one has managed to reverse the epidemic. There are many factors that have contributed to this relatively optimistic picture: it is medical research, and it is the WTO agreement on flexibility in patent law. There is considerable reason, in particular, to salute ex-President Clinton for the effort he has made, which has been absolutely crucial to the fact that the price of AIDS now is perhaps a tenth of what it was. Many non-governmental organisations have made a crucial effort to counter the prejudice and stigmatisation of AIDS. Everyone understands that this is not a full story, and perhaps in particular the health worker crisis that the Storting discussed just a month ago is a decisive factor that makes us not fully capable of using all the dividers we've won. The cheap drugs and programs against prejudices don't go far enough, simply because you don't have the qualified staff to bring this out. But yet, the picture, as Peter Piot said, is completely different than just six years ago. – For the first time, he said, I am optimistic about the fact that humanity will ride off the AIDS storm. It starts here because the fight against AIDS shows that we need impatience, we need boredom, and we need that combination of political struggle, attitude change and more money that turns out to be giving results. This is also an important reminder in the domestic utility-now-real-aid debate. I have asked for some issues of development policy to be explained. The presentation is long enough as it is, so I'm asking for an understanding that a number of themes cannot be addressed. I don't get to talk about health, not about education, not about trade regimes, not about fisheries, not about computer technology, not about a number of major issues. I also do not want to talk about women's issues in this context, although there is one of the five pillars of the Government's development policy, because we intend to present a separate report on this issue to the autumn – on women and gender equality in development policy. I would first of all like to talk about the changes that the Government is working on in development policy. This is perhaps best symbolized by the creation of three new so-called embassy offices in Lapas, Bolivia, Bujumbura, Burundi and Dili, East Timor, during the spring. These three places symbolize what we're looking for. In Bolivia, we are looking to help the first indigenous-dominated government in the world to build a sensible and sustainable gas resource management system. In Bujumbura, it is about turning the UN Peacebuilding Commission into a useful tool and helping to stabilise the country of the world that, together with Rwanda, has had most massacres and the greatest mass murders in recent decades, which, hopefully, can be a permanent peace. And in East Timor, this is about both of these things at the same time: both oil management and peace building. Some have criticized this government for wanting to police the aid. I just want to say that it is a criticism I face with pride, because politics is the most important thing in all aid. – To quote the German author Berthold Brecht, as once noted that hunger does not occur, it is organized by the grain merchants. It's not that the world's poverty is random. It is due to international power structures. It is the result of poor policies in many countries, weak and also corrupt and incorruptible leaders, and it is the result of a inherited history over hundreds of years. It is the combination of a wiser policy and far greater resources for development that can allow us, as the first generation, to reach the goal of resolving the absolute poverty of the world. The starting point for this government is power structures and not charity. It's politics, it's not money. And, of course, as the Storting knows very well, money is important, but politics is most important. We are entering into development policy with a double motive. Norway wants to show solidarity. We want to be seen by the world as a rich, but shy country, not a rich, but skilful country. Solidarity need not be justified. It is embedded in all major religions and all essential systems of thought that the globe has developed, and in all cultures. It is those who believe that Norway should not show solidarity, as please come up with the reasons for this view. But solidarity is also in Norwegian own interest. All the major threats to Norway are global, whether international terrorism, climate change, nuclear weapons or infectious diseases from other parts of the world and here. Almost all of the really great threats to Norway are linked to the seventh and last of poverty and to weak states. Security is a prerequisite for development, but without development we also have no certainty. This is why the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence and I myself work closely together on important challenges at the intersection of security and development, and that Norway has taken a leading role in Afghanistan in seeing security and development in the context and ensuring that the great words that come internationally that without development in Afghanistan there is no security either are translated into real money. Reality remains, unfortunately, that the world community spends incredibly many times as much money on security as on development in Afghanistan, and it is a strategy that can hardly succeed in the long run. The red thread of this statement is that lifting people out of poverty makes it easier through strong and well-functioning states. It is morally right to do this, but it is also, in our Norwegian informed self-interest, simply in the global common interest to do so. In the last year we have had a renewed debate and greater interest in development policy, including with critical media exchanges. I see that very, very positive. I want this debate to be clear on the two extremes. One final point is that Professor Terje Tvedt calls the Norwegian goodness regime, the idea that giving help is something you do with a good heart and good motives, we don't have to be so careful with the results. But of course, it's the results that help the world's poor, not the motives. The second extreme is that you pick up the last thing you've heard at some pub about some failed aid project somewhere in the world, and then generalise on the basis that it should apply to everyone. Between these two extremes we need a critical debate. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the Government – and the Stortinget – wants 1 pst. of the Norwegian gross national income shall be used for development purposes. No one has to be the least in doubt that I will fight with all my forces to get this to work. But at the same time it's true that it's more important how we use the 0.97 pst. We are already giving, even if we are able to increase the aid budget by 0.3 per million. We need to have a constant focus on results. At the same time, however, we should be aware that, of course, the countries most in need are also the least able to manage assistance in a sensible way. If we wanted to be effective, we would have given the money to Sweden or to Switzerland or the most well-functioning states on the globe. They'll be able to manage them better than Malawi and Zambia. But we want to give where the need is greatest, and in the most effective way possible. The really joyous thing that has happened at the G8 meeting this week is that the Americans have now come to the European and international conclusion that climate change is there, that they are man-made, and that we have to do something with them. This means that the debate, of which the Stortinget has also had a lot, whether there is some professor somewhere in the world that can be said to have such doubts about climate change, can now be considered internationally above. This has been accepted by China, by the United States, by the EU, by all major actors. And then the next phase: what do we do with that? Climate change is man-made – and it is a good news, because it also makes it possible to do something with them. But climate change affects the world in an extremely unfair way. The poorest countries, which have barely contributed to emissions, are those who seem to have the hardest consequences of them. And most of all, climate change will hit Africa. It's because Africa has much weaker countries than almost anywhere else on the globe. These countries have more limited resources than almost anywhere else on the globe. Africa has the most drought-affected areas on the globe, and it is assumed that climate change will lead to more drought. Africa, or at least some African countries, is heavily exposed to cyclones — Madagascar is an example of this — and has been given many more cyclones in recent times. And Africa has a much, much larger proportion of the population employed in agriculture than any other continent. Agriculture, of course, is what will be most easily affected by climate change. But climate change is a by-product of our prosperity, not of Africa's prosperity. We therefore have a special responsibility to contribute to combating the effects of climate change, and the Government will lift the environment and climate to the top of development policy. We will do that by assisting African countries to adapt to climate change. It may be building a disaster preparedness for cyclones, it may be transforming agriculture into a better drought-resistant agriculture, it may be contributing to the public systems of weak countries, in order to address climate change at all, and it may be contributing to research and knowledge to make it easier to take the right decisions. We also have a particularly serious special problem in terms of the fact that for some small island states, 20, 30, 40 in the figure, state formation itself may be at risk as a result of climate change. China, the United States, Norway are countries that are not threatened by climate change, while for Grenada or Maldives, the very existence of the country may be threatened by climate change. The particular effort the Government wants to make in eastern and southern Africa, because there are areas to which we have a long history relationship, and therefore it is more likely that we can contribute here than elsewhere, where we will also try to do something. So that's the other aspect of climate change: how do we reduce emissions? In India and China, a new coal-fired power plant is being opened about every ten days. The problem with this is, of course, that investment decisions taken today have consequences for many, many years, perhaps decades to come. It locks solid technology and makes it harder to change. China is about to pass the United States as the world’s largest emitter, although we must remember that China’s emissions per year. However, the population is not more than 1/5 of the US or Norwegian population. So that's in absolute terms China is the largest, not in relation to each of the Chinese. Let's not forget that perspective. But countries like India, Indonesia, Brazil and China, for that part of South Africa, which is the ninth largest emission nation in the world due to its particularly polluting coal, are countries that are in rapid economic progress and that do not necessarily need Norwegian money. What they need is cooperation with Norway on technology. We will look at how we can contribute to technology transfer in cooperation between Norwegian businesses and their businesses and through state programmes for clean energy sources, energy efficiency improvement and emission reductions. We are prepared to use aid to get this done, even to countries that in and on their own, like China, do not have money problems when you see it isolated. There are three natural main areas of action for Norway with a view to reducing emissions to other parts of the world. One is renewable energy. The Central African country of Chad has 10 million inhabitants, the area is twice as large as France, and average annual electricity consumption per year. resident in Chad is 10 kWh. In Norway, there are 25 000 kWh. Developing countries such as Chad, which are among the most difficult to deal with, have an enormously exhausted potential for renewable and non-polluting energy. It's a cross of thought that about the last 15 years there hasn't been a single hydropower plant built in Africa, much as a result of the World Bank's misguided policy. It was thought that the private sector could fix this on its own, while it has been found everywhere that there is a partnership between the private and public sectors, as we have had in Norway, which is most likely to do something as important as hydropower development. Norway has a special advantage in helping African countries with hydropower expansion, but paradoxically – and one can understand that when you look out of the window today, but not the rest of the year – we also have a significant advantage in terms of solar energy. Hydropower and solar energy will be specific areas for Norway to assist with renewable energy, and the aim must be that African countries can skip a technological level and move from the very, very weak standard of today to the renewable energy forms such as solar and hydropower, in the same way that Africa skipped the technological level of fixed line telephone. There's almost no place in Africa. Now you can use a mobile phone almost everywhere. I don't think I've been anywhere in Africa in the last two years where I haven't been able to use my cell phone, so it says something about how widespread it's suddenly become. In addition to investing in renewable energy, we will focus on energy efficiency improvement. During the Chinese Prime Minister Wen's recent visit to Japan, it was claimed in the media that Japan is eight times more energy efficient than China. I haven't checked the number, but it illustrates the enormous potential it is to streamline production and get more out of the same amount of energy. There is every reason to believe that there is a similar potential in countries like India, Indonesia, Brazil and South Africa. The third and last line of action is CO2 clean-up and landfilling. Here we will look at what opportunities there are for cooperation around our Mongstad project and other Norwegian technology development projects to develop technologies that can also be useful for developing countries. As part of our efforts to achieve our climate objectives, the Government will look at the possibility of using the so-called green development mechanism under the Kyoto Agreement. It is that rich and poor countries cooperate to reduce emissions in developing countries and that the climate quota that is absorbed by this reduction is added to the climate accounts of the industrialized country. I think there is a significant potential in the green development mechanism, but it will very rarely generate or provide enough money to build, for example, on the basis of the emission ratio. a hydropower plant or solar project of any majorl-see. However, the combination of aid resources, private investment, public funds from poor countries and the green development mechanism could generate significant growth in the sensible forms of energy such as hydropower, solar energy and energy efficiency in poor countries. That's this combination we want to look at, and we also want to look at how we can structure the entire Norwegian apparatus so that we get the most sensible form of this, again in collaboration between the private and public sectors. So I would just like to remind you of the audacity of the fact that we can use money from the aid budget to invest in hydropower and solar energy now, but at the moment this creates a climate quota for Norway, it will have to be made out of the aid accounts under the international rules and financed from the budget of the Ministry of Finance or another department. But I see no obstacle to using the money now, even if we get this set-off in three to four years when a project is developed, so that the project itself makes sense. Zambia's former president, Kenneth Kaunda, once said that Zambia was partly responsible for the economic crisis in the country, and he said, "This is the curse of being born with a cupcake in her mouth. This is what is called the resource curse, the paradox that internationally, many countries have almost no resources in recent years evolved much faster than many countries with a large amount of resources. In Zambia, it was copper. In many other countries, there was oil and gas. We need to be so humble as to recognize how difficult this is, that we think of even a country like the Netherlands, which is one of the most well-functioning and best-known societies in the world, yet the concept of the Dutch sick developed about its inability to handle large gas revenues in the 1970s. This is a term that has entered the international vocabulary. Norway’s experience in the management of petroleum revenues is almost unique. It's one of those areas where we don't have to beat ourselves to the chest to show how good we are, because others see it without us having to mention it to them. Only in the last month have I been contacted by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Mongolia, the Minister of Energy in Barbados and by the Government of Yemen if these three countries could not be included in the Oil for the Development Programme. So this is not a country with which we initially have a very extensive natural cooperation, so it illustrates the enormous interest it has in this area. It is therefore one of the most important areas of government development policy. We do not want to contribute to combating the resource crisis alone. We want to do it together with important international organisations, and we have developed a group of main countries with which we want to develop long-term cooperation. These include Nigeria, Angola, East Timor, Mozambique, Bolivia, Madagascar, Vietnam and Sudan. There may be more, but there are countries where we want to make an extra big effort. The most limiting factor in this area is skilled professionals. And then we will offer a more minimal arrangement for other countries, almost to say for any country that asks us to do so. So we'll look at it on the basis of whether more can develop. In countries such as Vietnam, East Timor and Mozambique, fruits of Norwegian intervention are already being harvested. This was mentioned in a Danish report which was just presented. Elsewhere you are in the start-up phase. When it takes time to develop this to its full potential, it is also because we need to ensure this quality in Norway. Norway may not contribute internationally with anything other than first-class competence. There is competence in a wide range of societal areas, not least in finance and money management. That is why we have developed cooperation between the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, the Ministry of Petroleum Control, so that we can contribute in sum all the expertise and expertise Norway has in this area. We have also established a broad cooperation agreement with the World Bank on petroleum and gaskets, and we are looking at the possibility of a similar agreement with the United Nations Development Programme and the United Nations Environment Programme. We have made an agreement on strategic cooperation with George Soros and his institute, Revenue Watch, which is therefore an important voluntary organization internationally, which helps to push for transparency in the energy sector and in the mining industry. And we are going to strengthen the environmental dimension of the Oil for Development programme in line with the wishes of a number of non-governmental organisations. Let me just end by saying in this area that when we put such emphasis on oil for development, it's not because we think this is the easiest thing we do. That is certainly the area where there is the greatest potential for scandals, for controversy, for problems with what we do internationally, and for negative reactions. So it's not because there's no danger of difficulty, that we're doing this, but because the possibilities of meaning something of a large scale are so great in this area. At the moment that we are able to assist a country to significantly gain control of its cash flows, that country itself will be able to deal with its own development in a way that has until now been unknown in many countries. Let me mention one passantly that when I met the leader of the Right Sister Party in Bolivia – who was a strong and keen supporter of Norway’s contribution to the Bolivian Petroleum Council – he said that it is a cross of thought that Bolivia, which after Haiti is the poorest country on the Western Hemisphere, is getting the lowest prices for its gas. Of course, it can't go on like that. Now we have to be careful not to believe that assistance can solve all problems. Assistance is a small part of what creates development, not one crucial part. In particular, I think assistance has shown that it can only contribute to a limited extent to the self-enhancing economic growth that we have seen in recent years in countries such as the United Kingdom. China. That is why I am very concerned that, in addition to and together with assistance, we also encourage Norwegian business to invest more in poor countries. We want to use the assistance as an instrument to facilitate more private investment. We have to help Africa get a greater part of the world economy in areas other than natural resources. Africa lost half of its share of world markets between 1970 and 1990. They mainly lost it to the rapidly growing industrialized countries of Asia and, in part, Latin America. This loss alone was on an annual basis NOK 400 billion, i.e. twice the total aid during the same period. Africa has 10 pst. of the world's population, but only 1 pst. of world trade. The total gross domestic product for sub-Saharan Africa is the size of Belgium, and it's only half of Belgium if we take South Africa and Nigeria out of that account. Africa has a particularly serious problem with regard to nutrition. The World Bank compiles indices of which countries run the most entrepreneurial policy, and among the 35 least industrialized countries in the world, 27 are located in sub-Saharan Africa. In the light of all of this, I have committed myself strongly to a dialogue and partnership with the Norwegian business community to encourage more investment, but also to encourage business to become more responsible for the environment and society. That's exactly why getting NORFUND out of the crisis was so important. Let me also pay tribute to the new Chairman of NORFUND, Kristin Clemet, and the Executive Director, Kjell Roland, because they seem to have solved the problems that were in NORFUND – The Stortinge will be briefed on this in another way – and will be able to get the institution back on the offensive. It's very nice to see. This effort for business development is also the background to the appointment in January of the Enterprise Development Guidance Office in the south, which will make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, to obtain the information and advice they need in order to invest in poor countries. This is also the background to the Government’s re-encumberment of the foreign scheme under the Export Credit Guarantee Institute, and of course will look at the possibilities to further increase it. We have also tried, in cooperation with the private sector, to develop what we call the Norwegian Microfinance Initiative. It's Storebrand, DnB NOR and Ferd who are the three partners at this point in time. We want to eventually get more. The aim is to develop a Norwegian microfinance system into which large financial institutions can contribute, but in which people who also want to spend their savings can invest. Business activities shall contribute capital and knowledge of finance. The State shall also contribute capital, but primarily with knowledge of the development of the countries in which it wishes to invest. Microfinance shall not build roads, schools and hospitals on a scale. Microfinance has demonstrated the potential to bring hundreds of millions of people out of poverty and trigger creativity and entrepreneurship. To make sure that we get a system that is so healthy that it can work for a long time, it will take some time for legal and financial work, but we hope to get this Norwegian microfinance initiative started from New Year's Search. Corruption is a mess in the social system and a threat to all developments. Corruption destroys institutions and countries; it leads to economic degradation by choosing poorer solutions, and it is socially and morally demoralising in a country. Above all, there is a huge amount of theft, where in many countries there is much more money going out of the country in the form of corruption than what comes in another door in the form of aid from richer countries. We're going to have an absolute zero tolerance for corruption in our system. In any case, except where it could endanger individuals physically, it should lead to the immediate publication of all the information we have, and, of course, to the police report of corruption in our own system and of corruption in all of Norway. At the same time, of course, there are many dilemmas in this area, because we want to contribute in those countries where the need for help is greatest. It is often among the most corrupt countries. Shouldn't children learn to read because the government is corrupt? We want control of the funds, but we also want to make administrative costs. If we keep the administrative costs too low, we won't be able to control the funds in a good enough way. We want a dialogue with all governments, but at the same time dialogue can of course be seen as the legitimisation of corrupt governments, whether democratic or dictatorial. We will continue to work to improve institutions and help build more equitable legal systems. We will further strengthen our efforts towards parliaments and free parties, free media and an active civil society. I would like to highlight in particular what Eva Joly, Norway and one of Europe's most famous corruption hunters have done by building a network of a number of the most prominent corruption hunters in many poor countries, where they are seen, where they can get professional advice, where they can connect with the best lawyers and the best financiers, who can give them views and advice, and where they also get the protection that lies in the international community's interest in them. I can't mention everyone, but let me mention Nuhu Ribadu, who is the head of Nigeria's anti-corruption work. He and his competent staff alone have returned NOK 30 billion to their legitimate owners, of course Nigeria's population, and in some cases individuals or single businessmen and others in Nigeria. Norway contributes with an economic safety net to these corruption hunters, because we understand that many of them live a very dangerous life, in countries where there is often no high price for taking any of the days. Developing countries are drained annually for huge resources. We must therefore, of course, also look at the international framework conditions that make this possible. Corruption is always two-sided. There are people who accept corruption, but there are also people who bribe. Corruption benefits leaving poor countries always go into a place, whether they be tax havens or rich, western countries. We have to look at all of these sides and try to be offensive in what we can do internationally to combat corruption in the international system. An important part of this is the United Nations Convention on Corruption, which Norway was early about to ratify, where a significant element is the possibility of repatriating the funds stolen from a poor country and where assistance from the judiciary is often needed in richer countries. I would also like to mention that in the fight against corruption, we must also address corruption problems in the UN and in organisations for which we have a great heart. Norway, together with France, has taken initiatives to explore the practice of immunities and other privileges of staff of international organisations. If one perceives immunity in international organizations as a protection of a corrupt culture and that individuals can enrich themselves, then we are on wild roads, and we bring only disgrace into the United Nations system and across the system of diplomatic immunity, as it is enshrined in the Vienna Convention. Immunity was intended as a protection against abuse by the government of a country against diplomats, not as a protection for people who enrich themselves at the expense of international society – and the poor. In the near future, we will present new guidelines for dealing with corruption issues across the EEAS, and a system for the emergence of existing issues so that the media and others can have an overview of them. We also want to create a system of alerting critical situations, so that those who discover something feel that they can reach with their eyesight. We will work internationally in this area, not least through the so-called EITI – the Extreme Industries Transparency Initiative – which is an initiative for transparency in the oil and gas and mining sectors. Transparency and transparency of the cash flows should be a norm, and we are proud that there was international agreement to add the Secretariat of this organisation to Oslo. It will be opened in September. In previous presentations, I have addressed the repeated famines in Africa and the lack of political action to reduce them. Hunger is a small phenomenon in Asia and Latin America, at least in the form of global famines. It's almost an African phenomenon. The reason for this is not that there is not enough food produced in the world, and far from that there is no potential to produce much more food. The reason is, like everything else, political, and is about power. It's about power in the international system, where rich countries dump surplus grain. Europe and North America dump surplus cereals in poor countries, destroy local markets and drive local producers out of production and prevent them from investing in long-term agriculture. It is also about power in many African countries, where democratic leaders also seem to be very little interested in famine disasters in their own countries, unless there is a chance that elections will be decisive. There are also technical responses to famines, but there are mainly political answers, which are about power in the international system and power in each country. I would strongly encourage Norwegian and other non-governmental organisations that distribute cheap food that you get in our part of the world to reconsider and think carefully about what they're doing. My attitude is that Norwegian contributions to hunger disasters, as far as possible, should be in the form of money and not in the form of food, so that they can help create the long-term local market that prevents new disasters. In many cases, low-cost agricultural imports and food aid mean that African farmers are not even competitive in their own domestic markets. In addition to these aspects of power policy, we will also look at more technological aspects. We will try to develop a cooperation with Yara, which is a central actor in the field of fertilisers, to see what we can do together to contribute to an African green revolution, but in an environmentally sound way. American star journalist Thomas L. Freedman writes somewhere that if we don't look for questionable neighborhoods, they will come and visit us. Peace, reconciliation and conflict resolution are among the main initiatives of the Government for development and foreign policy. There has been an interesting debate on this in the Norwegian public in recent times. The initiative for this was taken by Professor Øyvind Østerud. I know there are many in this room who have been engaged in that debate. So let me comment on it a little bit. It's obvious to everyone that states can be demolished from the outside. We have recently seen many examples of how military intervention, etc. has broken down a existing state. It would simply be illogical and unnatural to believe, if the international community and outside powers can break down a state, that they can't do anything to build a state. Øyvind Østerud’s one main point has been that it is very little likely that you can contribute to significant government construction from outside. My starting point is the opposite. I think that's a lot the international community can do to contribute to state building. Germany and Japan are good examples of how another power can contribute. In the case of Japan, it was the United States and, of all Americans, General Douglas MacArthur, who was hardly the foremost – what to say – social-democratic democrats in the world, who put Japan on a democratic trail in 1945. And Japan has been there since. Of course, it couldn't be done if there were no assumptions for it in Japanese society, but it was the United States that did it. Germany has a similar story. I believe that the reason why this debate has reached such an extent is that there is too high a level of ambition about what state building should be. If you think what we're going to contribute to is a perfect state, so perfect that you get a Jens Stoltenberg as prime minister on the foundation of social democracy, the chance of success is relatively small. But if our level of ambition is a good part lower – and the level of ambition is much lower in those countries that have been destroyed by war and conflict – namely that the state should gradually begin to deliver, that there should be a degree of law and order, that people should not have to live in fear every day, that there should be such stability that business can get started, that people should be heard and listened to and able to participate in democratic processes, then there is a lot that can be done to contribute to state building and the enormous progress it means, from the outside. Land, to name a few, such as Mozambique, East Timor, El Salvador, Namibia and Cambodia, are all countries that have had peacekeeping forces. None of the countries are perfect. None of these countries are small ‘Norway’. Further progress may still be horrific, but there is enormous progress in these countries, and every citizen in these countries is saying that the situation is incredibly much better than just a few years ago. So state building we can do a good deal for the outside, but in recognition that the most important thing in a state building process of course comes from within. Østerud has also criticised the Norwegian peace mediation effort and launched the idea that lasting peace after a civil war will be easier when one party to a war has won than trying to make peace. I believe this is a dangerous point of view. How long should a war or conflict be allowed to occur before one tries to mediate? Isn't this "give the war a chance" dangerous if you think about what huge destruction war almost always leads to – death and suffering? The goal of Norwegian peace-building efforts and Norwegian mediation in conflicts is not to create an absolute sky. It's to avoid it all, the worst -- mass murder and killing on a large scale, and unimaginable destruction of property and property. Non-interference – I refer to Rwanda, what it meant that the world community was sitting and looking at a genocide of 800,000 dead – must be the most difficult of all to defend morally. The use of military efforts to resolve conflicts must always be the last resort. This may be necessary where there are serious violations of human rights, and where a certain degree of military intervention is necessary in order to achieve the civil building that gives peace. But the starting point must always be to try to do everything else first and in addition. We should not forget Edmund Burkes, the conservative thinker's words: All that is needed for evil to triumph is that good men – it wasn't women at the time – don't lift a finger. Therefore, the Government will continue with the knowledge Norway has acquired in peace exposure, and strengthen our involvement in the Middle East, in Sri Lanka, in Sudan and elsewhere. In some places Norway plays the central role. Sometimes we play a central role. Elsewhere, we help others make important efforts. In the last year, developments in Sri Lanka have gone from bad to worse. It is estimated that more than 3,000 people were killed last year — probably more than for example. in Darfur. There are a few hundred thousand new internally displaced people. Many, many hundreds have disappeared, and one must unfortunately say that there is little probability that most of them will be found in good preservation. Nevertheless, despite the setback in persistently negative mention of Norway in many Sri Lankan newspapers, there is a strong desire from the Government of Sri Lanka and the Tamil tigers to continue the work as a facilitator. We are working closely with India, the United States, the EU and Japan, as the main foreign actors, for that matter also with China, on our facilitating role in Sri Lanka. We are in daily contact with both the tigers and Sri Lanka's government, and we will facilitate negotiations at the moment when both the government and the tigers at the same time find out that the time is ripe. In Sudan, the implementation of the North-South Peace Agreement from 2005 goes slower than planned. Remember, it's the most important and the most important question in Sudan, because if that peace agreement doesn't work, the whole country will break down. There is also fear of further violence and humanitarian collapse in Darfur. Norway is strongly committed to supporting the process that goes north and south, and we are engaged in the work of the international community to resume the peace negotiations for Darfur. Norway is committed to providing a peace force for Darfur, while many of the North are already engaged in the UN force in Sudan. Let me add that when Vice President Salva Kiir was in Norway a week ago, there was a good deal more optimism than what has so far been reflected in the media. He believed that the agreements he and President al-Bashir concluded ten days ago on cooperation in the oil sector and on the most difficult border issues, in particular an area called Abyei, give rise to a positive belief that the peace process between the north and the south will now speed up. He and the South Sudanese government will try to bring together all the guerrilla groups in Darfur in the near future, probably in July, so that they can develop a common platform. That is the prerequisite for resumption of negotiations with the Sri Lankan authorities. Even though a lot of things appear dark, there are also some bright things in Sudan. Nepal may be the country in the world where there has been the greatest progress towards peace in recent times. The joy is that this has been a completely Nepalese process. India has contributed significantly from the outside, Norway has tried on a small scale to contribute, but above all, the political parties and Maoists have come together to bring peace to Nepal itself. There are enormous expectations about this process. It is for the election of a Constitutional Assembly in November and for this Constitutional Assembly to decide whether Nepal will become a republic or continue as a kingdom. Norway has been an active support player in this process. We have contributed with military observers. We have contributed experts on issues related to children in conflict, electoral systems, the administration of Maoists' camps, and we have contributed in various ways to support the parties and the UN. Norwegian general Jan Erik Wilhelmsen heads the military part of the UN's efforts in Nepal. I am, as far as I know, the only state council from any country in the world that has met the leader of the Maoists, Prachanda, also to help him see the interest of the international community in continuing the peace process with Prime Minister Koirala and other leaders. Norway will continue to support the peace process in Nepal. As pointed out by Professor Østerud and many others, one sees in a very large part, perhaps half, of all peace conclusions a relapse to conflict during the first few years after peace was created. That's why it doesn't make sense to talk about conflict and postal conflict. There is almost always a gradual process, where no one can say with certainty when a postal conflict may again become a conflict. If someone two years ago were to say what was a successful peace process, they would probably point to Lebanon – which is now back to conflict again. It's never so that it's a straight-line movement. It's hard, and we have to intervene and contribute in many different ways and in different stages in such a process. But an important part of this is the establishment of the UN Peace Building Commission. Norway has been a driver of its creation. We are the largest financial contributor to the Peace Building Commission, and it is an essential new instrument to prevent countries like Burundi and Sierra Leone, the two issues they have raised, from being left to themselves in the most critical phase. The UN Peace Building Commission has put Burundi at the top of the agenda. They have asked Norway to take the lead in the work of Burundi, and we have assumed that. It is important for the UN to achieve this. It makes the UN relevant, and it matters internationally. Of course, it is more important for Burundi that they succeed. To illustrate how fragile it is in Burundi, they have now for the first time had a popular government that has been sitting for more than one year – after 40 years of independence, with coup d'état, massacres, military regimes, etc. This government is now approaching its two-year anniversary, and deserves all possible support in succeeding in creating lasting peace in Burundi. Norway’s UN Ambassador, Johan Løvald, worked expediently in New York to bring together the international community on peace building in the country. Norway, together with the Netherlands, has taken on the role of ‘principal sponsors’ for the donor process and political developments in Burundi, although, of course, South Africa and Tanzania are the most critical in the peace process itself. What we are trying to achieve is that the political, security, economic, development — all of it — go together, so that Burundi can step by step go against both wealth, at least less poverty, and peace. In addition, Burundi’s Foreign Minister recently asked Norway to appoint a special mission with the Netherlands to be the administrator of the support process for Burundi in the international community. It's going to go to the end. The government attaches crucial importance to the work of the UN. I have said in the past that this government loves the UN, and we will do what we can to ensure that the UN succeeds. That is exactly why we need to be critical of the UN. The UN has a strong and growing need for reform. In many countries, up to 20 different UN organisations work in parallel with relatively similar issues — each of their car fleets, their offices, their managers, their budgets, etc. The high-level panel chaired by Prime Minister Stoltenberg delivered his report entitled ‘Deliver together as one’, the aim of which is, of course, to draw all these things in the same direction. Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon has given his support to the broad lines of the proposals. Norway is a driving force for putting this into practice. As part of this work, the Government has provided multiannual indicative contributions to the main UN development programmes, so that they can plan for longer horizons, and we have provided substantial additional funds to eight pilot countries. There are eight countries that came forward and suggested themselves as pilot countries – Tanzania, Mozambique, Vietnam, Pakistan, to mention those I come by. They'll try this out, and thus look at how to gain experiences that can be used elsewhere. Albania is also the European country. Norway will pay particular attention to gender equality and the environment in support of this pilot work. There is resistance to reforms from many teams. And there's only one way to win out with reforms, and that's to be clear and clear and also send money where they're reforming, and hold back money where they're not reforming. As you know, Paul Wolfowitz is resigning as the head of the World Bank. I have followed this matter closely. Svein Aass, the Nordic-Baltic representative of the World Bank, contributed to the process that led to this outcome, among others. by requiring full transparency of all events. It was to the seventh and last a correct decision that Wolfowitz made, and I have given him credit for making this decision. Now you have to put this behind you, you have to look forward, and the reputation of the World Bank has to be restored. One must also be careful, from the Norwegian side, that despite everything, the positive Wolfowitz did, in particular, two things: putting Africa at the centre of the World Bank’s activities and making the fight against corruption a major issue for the World Bank – and these things are carried on by a new management. The World Bank needs to learn from this process and look at what can be done to improve legislation and systems in order to avoid repeating such problems that have occurred. The arrangements for the President of the United States to appoint the head of the World Bank, and for a few European countries to share responsibility for the leadership of the International Monetary Fund, are out of date. This may have made sense in Bretton Woods in 1944, doubtless, but that it is today that no Chinese, Indian, African, South American or North American, for that matter, can become the leader of the World Bank if he is competent to do so, is absurd. Norway, together with other countries — Australia is a country with the same point of view as us — will try to push behind the design of a new process so that the next time a President of the World Bank is elected, it will be based on competence and international competition between different candidates. That being said, the Americans have made proposals on Robert Zoellick as the new leader of the World Bank. There is undoubtedly a competent person with a long experience in economic issues and in development issues, and a person I have learned to know as one who is easy to cooperate with and who listens to. He comes to Norway at the end of next week. And I see it as a feather in his hat for Norway that he chooses Norway as one of the very few countries he then wants to visit in advance of his invading position as head of the World Bank. There is a need to rethink all the structures and tasks of the development banks. The Asian Bank — what does it need for when almost all Asian countries are now able to finance their own development? In Latin America, some countries have joined forces to create parallel structures for the World Bank. All of this has to be reconsidered. And if or when Zoellick is appointed as head of the World Bank, I would strongly encourage such a reflection with the other development banks. The Soria Moria Declaration states that Norway should not provide assistance to programmes requiring liberalisation and privatisation. The perceptions of whether the World Bank continues to do this are shared. Norway therefore took the initiative of a conference on this in Oslo quite recently, and we have taken the initiative of an international study to look at this. The conclusions are relatively clear: there has been a dramatic reduction in the number of programmes where the World Bank requires privatisation and liberalisation on an ideological basis, or at the same time. The economic advice provided by the World Bank and the Monetary Fund in many countries may also contain significant elements of this. We have made the World Bank report on the follow-up to its own principles in this area. We work closely with the United Kingdom and other countries that share our views. What comes out of this will also have a bearing on how much money the Government will propose to give to the World Bank's development funds in the next round of flooding. In the last year, in a number of contexts, we have heard the international debt movement say: Look at Norway. I'm not hiding that this is something I'm proud of, and that the Storting can be proud of, because this is something government and big business have done in common. I thank the Stortinget for the support that has been given to clear up what was once stamped from this pulpit as the greatest in Norwegian development policy history, the debt of the Norwegian shipping campaign. That debt to Ecuador, Egypt, Jamaica, Peru and Sierra Leone has now been cleared. We have done so without touching the aid budget, and we have done so without reporting the deleted amounts as assistance. There is an end line set – done with it. It is to the credit of the Stortinge that there was so much support for it in this house. A new major problem that is about to emerge is the so-called Gribble Funds. So it's private people with no morality – you could say – who buy up poor countries' debt for cheap money and then sue this country and demand the entire initial amount back, plus interest and interest. The grab funds probably never wait to get the entire amount back, but they hope they can get back a good deal more than what they bought for. A court order in a British court shows that there is significant profit potential for this in the case before it, in Zambia. In recent years, Norway has been particularly committed to Nicaragua and Mozambique in order to initiate international processes in order to obtain debt from these countries so that they do not become victims of these Funds. Norway was the first country to announce contributions to this debt operation for Nicaragua. As a result, many other countries have entered the track, the operation is now fully funded, and Nicaragua has now been removed from the claws of these pits. And Norway is prepared to participate in several such operations. Finally, in the case of debt cancellation, let me mention Liberia — perhaps the clearest of all international examples, a country that has been in the hands of absolute cellars for 25 years. Mass murderers and corrupt dictators have run the country, and they have worked up an unimaginable debt, and so a new democratically legitimately elected decent government must be responsible for repaying this debt. It is totally unacceptable! Debt cancellation is also one of the top priorities in relation to Liberia. I will visit Liberia in ten days to discuss with President Johnson Sirleaf and the Minister of Finance what more we can do to help them. However, Norway has taken the initiative — and has contacted a number of international governments, together with the World Bank — to clean up Liberia’s debt. We have already granted our measured share of Liberia's debt cancellation to go ahead and contribute to the deletion of it. Overall, for many reasons — economic, security and others — West Africa will be on the world agenda. I want to visit West Africa and Liberia in a week and a half. We must be humiliating to the challenges of development policy. No one should say that development policy is simple. Norway commends itself. We're a high-tech nation. We are world leaders in several fields — oil policy and, for example, oil policy. tunnel construction — but also here in Norway we make mistakes. Even though we're world leaders in oil, we got Mongstad expansion. Although we are certainly the world's best tunnel construction – at least in terms of number of tunnels – we had problems with the Hanekleiv tunnel. I do not take a position on the individual elements of this. There must be an opportunity to make mistakes also in Norway. But no one can expect fewer mistakes to be made when working in countries where conditions are so incredibly difficult than in Norway, as they are in many developing countries. The error sources are multiple. The foundation is brittle. We simply have to assume that it will fail more often if we are engaged in Burundi or Liberia than if we are engaged in Norway. That is why a continuous debate and a critical searchlight are crucial to everything we do. I am prepared for dialogue with Stortinget about what Stortinget wants from messages and reports on how we can most easily facilitate a discussion here in the house. We must focus all attention on the results of our activities. We have set down a cross-political sample, the Development Committee, to look at the sum of our activities. Our fight against injustice, poverty and suffering needs no justification. If we do not contribute to the reduction of poverty, injustice and war – if the results do not exist – then what we do has no purpose either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e264	On the basis of Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that a comment round be opened with one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and with a final post of up to 5 minutes from the Minister for Development. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e267	I would first like to thank you for a thorough statement on development policy. I have noted some punctuations – impatience, boredom, solidarity, assistance, power – yet with the conclusion that politics is most important when it comes to it. I can join it. It is not so often that we debate aid and development. Therefore, such presentations are important. On the basis of today's presentation, the Workers' Party believes that there is now a need for a new big message about our development policy. In any case, there should be a wholesale notification in each period. The Minister for Development said a lot about the UN reforms. We are channelling a large part of our assistance through the United Nations system. We strongly support this. As State Council Solheim said, we love the UN, but that also means that we have to be critical. Therefore, it is important that we participate in the process of reforms in the World Organisation. Jens Stoltenberg has been one of the leaders of the High Level Panel proposing coordination of UN units at country level. The test countries include Mozambique, Tanzania and Vietnam. This is an important cooperation country for Norwegian development policy. It will be interesting to follow up on this, but I would like to stress that we also have a responsibility to follow that process in each country, for example. in Mozambique. Former UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, spoke on 28 February 2005 in a speech to the UN Commission on Women's Rights: ‘There is no more effective development effort than strengthening women’s position.’ Let me add that as long as women are oppressed – downgraded, held down, living in poverty – we are not going to develop. Then we don't reach the UN's thousandth anniversary. I have just returned from Lima, from a conference of women parliamentarians and researchers from six South American countries. These women put tears in their eyes and listened to what I could tell about Norwegian and Nordic equality policies, and how we had got them. They didn't know anything about this from now on. Now it all of a sudden went up for them that their dreams could come true, this was actually possible to achieve. With regard to our assistance to Latin America, let's focus on what we can really contribute, namely our experience of welfare policy, equality, democracy and the management of natural resources, which the Council of State spent a great deal of time talking about. I am therefore pleased that the Government's Women's Action Plan is now coming as a key message on women's rights and gender equality in development policy, with themes such as gender mutilation, trafficking, HIV/AIDS, reproductive health and training in democracy, as well as Norway's follow-up to Security Council Resolution 1325. The environmental action plan is also an important contribution to poverty reduction — the recognition of key challenges in environmental and natural resources, and what Norway can contribute both in terms of assistance and as a good partner in foreign policy. As stated by the Council of State, there is a debate on the effectiveness of assistance. We know that assistance means a lot to welfare development. We know that millions of children today are being rescued by the GAVI vaccination program. I have seen for myself how UN projects in Africa prevent HIV/AIDS and help alleviate/treat the disease. It may also be useful to remember that the Norwegian companies’ petroleum revenues from Africa are as large as – if not larger than – the total Norwegian aid to the same continent. However, development policy is much more than aid. If we are to overcome poverty, countries and regions must have peace. We need strong, well-functioning countries, an open economy, well-being and business development. The Aid for Trade project is important. Trade has brought millions out of poverty and contributed to growth and development. It is therefore necessary to strengthen efforts to improve market access for developing countries. However, it requires that they have something to sell. Norwegian business can make a great contribution to securing infrastructure and generating production. We need a strategy to formalise the informal sector. Nevertheless, it is important to ensure the right to own food production, the right to clean water, and to have transitional arrangements under the WTO system to protect their own food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e305	I would also like to thank you for a very comprehensive presentation. The council started by saying that there were some issues that he could not find within the speaking time that he had intended to use. Nevertheless, I'm probably a little surprised that a theme like this. women-oriented assistance could not be mentioned when one hour is spent talking about important development policy features. With regard to the concrete that was taken up, and there was a lot that was taken up, I expect – and it is well added – that the Storting will come back to the individual things in detail. In my comments, I will stick to the more traditional aspects of development policy. But I have great respect for the fact that everything is related to everything, because there was a lot in this statement that could have been said by other government councillors and ministers in the Stoltenberg government. It's probably also a sign of how the world is changing, and how some of the more traditional patterns of responsibility-sharing have to be viewed. I respect it. The Council of State wants a debate. That's good. The councils themselves have contributed, and he is diligent and active in the newspaper. He repeated some of the same today. In the evening post on 3 June there was an article by Erik Solheim entitled ‘Help No Miracle Cure’. He shoots at those who come with criticism. Solheim says in this article: ‘Should the word change become meaningful, it must be more concrete.’ You must not spread myths – this was repeated today as well. I guess I don't realize that you, whether it's the Council of State, the Government or anyone who defends the level of assistance we have, are much more concretely back. Yes, in the case of vaccines and AIDS – also mentioned by the representative Nybakk – there are very many positive news. But if we look at the macroeconomic development of the countries of southern Africa – and the Council of State can go back how far he wants in history, from the childhood of aid, and look at what has happened – I do not feel that evidence of the success of aid has been provided. When asked to be specific in the criticism, one must also be concrete in the defence of aid and in relation to the overall. A voluntary organisation will be able to see this more at a micro-level, but when you as a country or as part of a multilateral system, within e.g. The UN, together with the World Bank, is trying to solve some of the world's largest tasks, demands must be made to document results. So it's used as a proof, at least as I see it, that now more and more countries are starting to provide assistance, and those who have given give more. Another quote is: ‘It is also part of the picture that George W. Bush has doubled the US aid to Africa. I believe that the burden of proof lies with those who, in general and without reservation, believe that assistance does not work." The fact that the government is now using Bush’s foreign policy as a basis for what is right and wrong is of interest. For the Progress Party, it is therefore important to make independent decisions. I do not think we have received answers to the questions that we have asked and that others have asked in the debate. Finally, a few other comments. There is also an exciting debate in Sweden related to changing focus on development policy. I would like to mention this in particular in relation to the reform needs of the United Nations, which was also addressed in the presentation. Together with Sweden, and with Denmark and others, we can put an incredible pressure on the organisation to move it in the direction we want. We see an increasing interest in it on the Swedish side. Trade was not mentioned very much. The Minister of Foreign Affairs was here on Monday and said that we could get an agreement and a clarification in the WTO in the Doha Round, perhaps earlier than many of us had thought. It is also important that the Minister for Development is on the ground and contributes to the preservation of the development policy perspective in the Norwegian negotiating position. What I just want to point out then is that the agreement we have now concluded with Switzerland to be loaded and broken with Switzerland in the negotiations, hardly is the most developmental promoter we can do in the Doha round.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e330	This week there was a conference on Africa in Oslo, including contributions by the Director of the Environmental Protection Authority of Ethiopia and the Founder of the Institute for Sustainable Development of Ethiopia, Tewolde Egzhiabher. Under the title ‘Can Africa feed itself?’ he concluded: ‘The question is not whether Africa can feed itself, but whether Africa can be allowed to feed itself.’ I'm not going to go into his argument and his history of the replacement of Africa's labour by slavery, through colonialism to our time's influence and governance, often on the premise of the outside world. It could have been a topic for itself, with the need for a lot of self-search. But I'll take Tewolde's conclusion: ‘Africa must be calmed down to develop from the inside.’ As in previous debates on Norwegian development policy, I would like to underline two aspects. First, our own development of systems of government, the rule of law and institutions has taken centuries. Secondly, we need to realise that new countries, which are committed to the development of human rights and our system of governance, need time not only to take the necessary decisions but to restructure entire societies, build civil society from below – and this must be done on their own premises, anchored in history, traditions and culture. Then there's not a question of how long it takes, but if it goes in the right direction and has a satisfactory progress. That is why it is so unsuccessful and counterproductive when a Western donor country expects measurable and clear results of its own efforts within timescales dictated, among others. the donor country's electoral periods, while the country of destination's assumptions indicate decades of development and perhaps generations. Now one shouldn't take such views as I mention here, to income because we don't want to look at the use and control the impact of our efforts. I have spent a lot of time on this speaker for the last six years asking for a systematic documentation and evaluation of the effects of Norwegian aid. There has been a need to develop new procedures and methods, and positive things are beginning to happen, even though we still know too little about the long-term effects of much of what we're doing. As the Council of State also mentioned, for a whole year there has been a debate on Norwegian aid: does it work, does it not work, or is it directly harmful? Professor Øyvind Østerud has been quoted before. I remember his chronicle «Small country saves the world» in the Evening Post on 7 June last, where he showed that Western countries have spent 20 trillion dollars on aid over the past 50 years. He further claims: ‘Help can provide a growth impulse, but it can also act as a catalyst, weaken local business, inhibit the development of local expertise and keep corrupt regimes in power.’ He added that the error was ‘to confuse inputs with actual effects — more warming to donors than to recipients’. I think it's true that Østerud has some points, but unfortunately he's going to get hurt to pour the baby out with the bath water. For it is certainly also positive trends to tell about, as several others have been in the past today, whether it is child mortality, the number of children in school, extreme poverty or life expectancy. But we're going to assume that the numbers are global, and that they look significantly worse than Sub-Saharan. What both the professors, the state council and we can fortunately agree on is that there are some basic prerequisites for a positive development. It's 1. peace and security2. a well-functioning state, and then I am thinking of representative government, legal certainty and a government that tolerates international auditing3. a well-functioning business, often based on an established and developed local and regional market, before being exposed to internationalisation and the challenges and opportunities of globalisation; If we take the consequences of this, more of the assistance needs to be targeted precisely at the development of well-functioning countries and to facilitate sustainable local economic development. We need to have a development policy debate that is more impact-driven than percentages. Assistance must increasingly be on the premises of the recipient. Of course, we should continue to review and evaluate the impact. At the same time, we must recognise that time frames and development perspectives need to be adapted to the assumptions, capabilities and capacities of the recipient country, and not to our own needs and practices. With regard to the individual issues that the Council of State mentions, I expect to be able to come back to them when the Committee examines the presentation. We will also address in more detail the issue of trade access for developing countries in the debate on Document No. 8:38 the first Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e377	I would also like to thank you for a very comprehensive and insightful presentation. I am particularly pleased that the Minister for Development was so clear that much of the world's poverty is due to power structures, and then that's what we have to do with these power structures. Development policy has become an important part of foreign policy. That is why there is a need for thorough debate, including here in the Grand Duchy. I think it is good that the Minister of Development invites civil society and organisations to make recordings. This openness is needed in order for us to be able to mobilise for a policy that could actually lift the world's poor out of poverty. There has been a debate before this presentation. This has led to my getting a confession. I think we need annual development reports, as the Stortinget got earlier. In this way, we will be able to lift this important policy area, and it can get the attention and treatment that is needed. Among the greatest challenges facing the world, including development, are increasing militarisation, upgrading and the climate change created by humans. Let me first comment on military upgrading, which is driven by the military-industrial complex. It costs $20 billion per year. years to get all people enough clean water, food and primary school. $20 billion is 3 pst. of the rich world military expenditure, where the United States accounts for the greater part. Training of one soldier in rich countries costs the same as giving schooling to 10,000 children in a developing country. NATO and US missile defence plans must be criticised for many reasons. It makes the world more dangerous, including from a development and resource use perspective. The Minister for Development was concerned and made a thorough presentation of climate change and challenges. It's important to take at least two perspectives. One is that the rich part of the world accounts for most of the emissions, and must therefore also take the greatest responsibility. That means we have to take a significant part of the cut to which we are obliged, here at home. Such behaviour will in fact trigger a liability of e.g.: China. By developing technology here at home, we can transfer technology to countries that have a legitimate demand for economic growth, but a growth that does not lead to new emissions. Poor countries need to be given the opportunity through environmental assistance to develop clean energy, because lack of energy particularly affects women, and it prevents development and poverty reduction. But as important as access to extra clean energy is help to repair and withstand the climate damage that will come anyway. Without it, the world will experience 400 million more displaced climate refugees in 2050. Norwegian aid must contribute to human survival strategies, but also to nature. Local adaptation strategies, e.g. in Africa, depends on the non-destruction of natural resources by, for example: construction of large ponds. Oil for development may be a minefield if climate and civil society components are not developed at the same time. Oil for development must be co-ordinated with the Environmental Aid Action Plan and not be a tool for a small power that continues unfailingly with corruption or, for that matter, that StatoilHydro should be able to gain more profit – about the next issue that we are going to debate. In the end, I would like to say something about the development of Palestine. With my own eyes, I have just seen how the occupation of Israel's gross violation of human rights and international agreements, such as the construction of the separation wall, settlements, confiscation of land, cause farmers not to grow their land and not to sell their goods, that children do not get to school, and that the health supply is being ruined. Several international reports document exactly that. That's why we have to be clear that 40 years of occupation is enough. The occupation must cease, as it is the main prerequisite for the development of Palestine and in this area. The Development Minister was inside the World Bank and said it is an old-fashioned arrangement that the United States appoints the head of the World Bank. I fully support that. It is such that the management of that bank must be designated on the basis of competence, not nationality. There were other important perspectives that the Minister of Development came up with about the development of the World Bank.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e400	Development policy is not charity. The Christian People's Party sees the fight against poverty and for development as a case of justice, with the aim of achieving human rights for all. The co-operation government’s report on poverty Common fight against poverty was based on the UN’s Millennium Development and Poverty Response Goals. The Millennium Development Goals are to be achieved by 2015. We're almost halfway, but the follow-up internationally is far from good enough. Now it is essential to keep focus and strengthen efforts. When Development Minister Solheim first wrote a letter to Stortinget's presidency and asked to make this statement, there were therefore a few sentences we noted in the Christian People's Party with particular joy. Let me quote from Solheim's letter: «Only two years ago, the Single European Anti-Poverty Report No 35 was presented. The treatment showed that there is a broad consensus in Stortinget about the overall lines in the field. This agreement is consistent with the present composition of the Storting.’» The composition of the Great Britain has not changed since the Minister of Development wrote this. I am therefore surprised that in his last letter to the Presidency, the Council of State writes that he has ‘made a significant change in development policy’. If the Council of State now intends to make a significant change in policy, it will first have to submit a notification to the Storting and accept it before significant changes are made. At this point, we need to have a clean relationship between the Greatness and the executive, the government. I noticed the warning about a separate message about women and equality. The framework for today's debate does not allow discussion of all the questions raised by the Minister for Development. Let me just briefly take some major points for the Christian People's Party. We are soon in the middle of the period for the implementation of the UN Millennium Development and Poverty Response Goals. Now we need to keep focus, strengthen efforts and, not least, make a strong commitment to achieving the goals of reducing child mortality, better assembly and education for all, including for the girls. Equality is important. It is also the fight against HIV/AIDS. Assistance is needed, but to achieve the development objectives, political reforms, better trading conditions, debt relief, good governance and more – in short, a comprehensive development policy. Many developing countries have lost more to worsening trading conditions in world trade than they have received in aid, said the Minister. WTO negotiations must become a real development round. An improvement in poor developing countries' market conditions in Norway can also contribute later today to the examination of Christian People's Party Document No. Eight proposals on tolls. Debt is important, and I want to use the opportunity to ask the Council of State again about the status of the World Bank's promising investigation into illegitimate debt. Reforms for good governance and the fight against corruption are essential. The resources of society must not be put in the pockets of rich elites, but go to the development of the broad, poor population. Therefore, former State Councillor Hilde Frafjord Johnson took the Oil for Development initiative, just to ensure more oil revenue for non-profit development purposes. Good governance and the fight against corruption are crucial. It requires an effective state of governance and justice, but not always more state. If the state is to be controlled and democracy to function, an independent civil sector is needed. The role of voluntary organisations in long-term assistance must not be weakened, as we have seen trends. In the case of global climate action, e.g.: the purchase of allowances and the appropriations for the Clean Development Mechanism must, in my view, be covered by additional funds and not by the framework for public assistance. And then here we have to think about distribution. Africa is hit by climate change and needs to get a greater share of these resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e442	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Minister of Development for the presentation that was made today. That was a very thorough account. There is a lively and public debate in the media and at conferences on this very topic. I think it is important that we have the opportunity to discuss and reflect on Norwegian foreign policy in Stortinget. There will, of course, be a short debate now at the end of the spring session, but it is better than no debate at all. The economic situation in Norway is such that we can take a new approach to development policy within the framework of the commitment that the Stortinget has given its support to in the past, while at the same time we do not need to reduce other important budget lines. The majority has placed the leaders in the State budget for 2007. I believe that the statement shows that there are important initiatives that are now being followed. I am pleased that we are also informed by the Minister that we will receive a separate communication on development policy for women and other related issues. I also support the idea of an annual development message that we can get to debate. It's necessary to give priority to the short time we have at our disposal today. That is why I would particularly like to address a question which is fundamental to the fight against poverty, namely agricultural aid. The size has adopted an action plan on agricultural aid. In examining the 2007 state budget, we reaffirmed the importance of this action plan. In many developing countries, and especially in Africa, agriculture feeds up to 80 pst. by the population. These people live in rural areas and largely run small-scale agriculture. Many of these also use the majority of their output for their own consumption, or it is part of a trading economy. It is not what appears in the country's gross domestic product, but it is just as important and can feed the farmer and her family. In these days there is a great conference in Oslo where this question is asked: Can Africa feed itself? The Ministry of Food is a co-organiser, and the Minister of Food and Agriculture and the Minister of Development have participated in the opening of the conference. It's a multiplicity of representation from Africa. I understand that the African participants have been partly provoked by the title, and I immediately answer a clear question: Yes, Africa can feed itself. Then they continue to say: But then the industrialized countries need to focus less on exports, on getting a few plant varieties out, demands for patents on living organisms, and the use of genetically modified organisms. Since the green revolution was established, action plans from the international community have changed faster than the growth in Africa is capable of growing up from the earth. It's at least been claimed. I am pleased that the agricultural strategy adopted by the Stortinget fits in with the view that we should invest in the weakest, that we should preserve diversity and build on the competence of the farmers themselves. It's sad that we've come so far today that we're talking about adapting to climate change, but that's a fact. When the banks of the great mountains of East Africa melt, an important source of water disappears in the rivers, Nobel Prize winner Wangari Maahai could tell on the world's environmental day. Climate change is hitting the poorest hardest. Therefore, adaptation strategies are important. It is important to build up humus in the soil to keep it on the water, and it is important to cultivate a variety of varieties that tolerate drought and flooding and that are robust to insects. There are many other themes that I would like to have brought with me today. But we will get back to that when the matter is resubmitted to Stortinget. But let me stress that the Forum on Development and the Environment and the NHO are working on developing national and international guidelines for corporate and financial institutions' social responsibility. This must be supported. The implementation of such guidelines will also have a major impact on development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e461	I believe that development policy is such a big and important topic that it deserves a good process here in the Stortinget. But I want to link some general comments to the presentation. If the Government now intends to provide a new assistance message, it will replace St.meld. No 35 for 2003-2004 Joint fight against poverty, from the Bondevik II Government. A basic new aid policy was presented here, which was referred to as ‘the new way to conduct aid policy’. Key keywords here are poverty orientation,recipient orientation, ownership of own development, rights-based development, stronger women’s perspective and coordination. Furthermore, the Communication points to priority areas of action. With this as a hindrance, I am excited which new policy the red-green government will present in its assistance message. The immediate questions I ask myself are whether the orientation of poverty will be weakened. Will the government's politically motivated commitment to the middle-income countries of South America be followed by new steps away from poverty orientation? Another question arises as a matter of principle of concentration. As a newly-baked minister, the Minister for Development stated that he would concentrate his efforts: if you wanted everything, you wouldn't get anything. Since then we have heard that Norwegian aid should not be a mini-FN. However, the wagering in South America represents a significant weakening of this declared principle of concentration. I have been following the aid policy debate recently with interest, and I believe that such a debate is positive. What strikes me is that, unlike almost all other policy areas, there is a constant struggle for a sense of reality in the context of aid. Some seem to believe that assistance does not work, that it promotes addiction, that it clientises poor countries, that it helps to extend mismanagement to despots, and that it is managed by an aid lobby. Others take the aid in defense. They point out that, despite a number of mistakes and shortcomings, the assistance has helped to improve the living conditions of many poor people in the Third World. In the Left, we humbly acknowledge that development is a complex process. Prerequisites to promote development vary from country to country and over time. Developing countries at different stages need different measures to succeed in their fight against poverty. We are also humble considering that much knowledge is required in order to interfere in the internal affairs of remote countries in a constructive way. That's exactly what you're really doing with assistance. The left will point to three different measures in its development policy: promoting trade, stimulating business development and providing assistance. So an important measure for us is to promote trade, including ensuring fairer framework conditions for international trade. The Development Minister did not mention this point so much in his statement, but I expect him to come back to it. In addition, we want to help developing countries reach our markets with their products. In terms of industrial development in the south, we focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, the Left will still have a high level of assistance, which we contributed to under the Bondevik II government. The Left also believes that assistance is effective in achieving objectives such as good health care, a comprehensive education system and institutions that guarantee ownership, legal certainty and democracy and that also focus on women-oriented assistance. In countries with weak democratic and judicial institutions, there should be clear demands for reforms. The left will give priority to assisting such countries in developing the necessary social institutions. A fundamental prerequisite for development is well-functioning countries. I would warn against looking blindly at whether the aid amounts to 1 pst. of gross national income or not. This has become an exercise in Norway that has helped to cover other important aspects of our development policy. The aid is just a means, not a goal in itself. The left wants to help get out of this one-sided focus on assistance. We want to see assistance, trade and business development in the context. It can be a long and painful path, from good intentions to good results in the assistance. I see that there are many good intentions and important steps to increase the quality of assistance. The challenge for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Norad will be to put this into practice effectively, because the credibility of the aid is so crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e484	I thank you for your good input into the debate. I am simply proposing a dialogue between the Foreign Affairs Committee and myself on what is the sensible form of making presentations: briefings on the Stortinget, a big message – a global big big message or a shorter one coming every year. I'm open to dialogue. The government is very aware of who's the boss. The Stortinget is the boss, and Stortinget will have what Stortinget asks for. So we'll have a discussion about it. I had thought that it was natural to make a bigger big message after the Development Committee had been allowed to present its position, but if the Stortinget wants it earlier, we will get it to earlier. I think a dialogue about the shape will make sense. Both Ågot Valle and Marit Nybakk were involved. Ågot Valle requested that the Oil for Development programme also become an important component of civil society. That's something that hasn't been good enough for now, which we're definitely going to get. Oil for development is not just for oil experts and state systems — and above all, not primarily technology. It's about politics. A civil society under pressure in each country is among the most important factors in transparency and in order to avoid corruption. So the representative Woie Duesund asked about the World Bank's study of illegitimate debt. I cannot answer how far it has come, but let me find out, and the representative will get an answer as soon as possible. The representative Samuelsen was concerned with the relationship between environment and development. These are issues that I think are very important. Of course, Africa can kill itself. Africa is a sub-populated continent. Africa has a small population and huge areas, but they have not brought about the technological revolution that the green revolution was in the East. There are power structures that prevent Africa from feeding itself. The representative Larsen from the left said a lot of sense, but in order for us not to talk past each other, let me talk straight from the bag. I believe that the concept of 'poverty orientation' is completely thoughtful. It's a kind of aid jargon that we've been up to in recent years, and that doesn't matter. Let's look at what the word means: either poverty-orientation means that Norwegian aid must have as its objective the eradication of poverty. Of course! What else in the world would we do? Otherwise, poverty orientation, if you want to be more concrete, means that the projects you are running focus very strongly on the fact that each project will immediately help the poor. But that is a contradiction to the experience we have with Norway’s development. As has been said here in the past: Sam delete employees not the poorest, and Martin Tranmæl did not organize the poorest. They brought society forward and thus the poor. That's what China has done, too. Without that being my favorite quote from Deng Xiaoping, he said that someone had to be rich first, to get production and development going. In terms of poverty orientation, under these words, we must, paradoxically, agree more with Vallersnes. It's creating functioning states, a functioning civil society and business development. That's what can bring about the self-enhancing economic progress that we've seen in Asian countries. It will drive millions of people out of poverty. It is not to think that every project must necessarily help the poor. So to the big debate with the Progress Party: I think it is very easy to demonstrate – it also acknowledged Höglund – that assistance has contributed to significant, positive results in terms of health, significant, positive results in terms of education, and very positive results in terms of conflict management and conflict reduction and prevention. I think it is limited what assistance alone can do in terms of self-enhancing economic development, such as. China or Korea has been inside. In this way, assistance can help to facilitate, create management systems, help facilitate trade, help build skills – many measures around it – create education and develop educated people who can drive development forward. But in terms of economic development itself, there is more limited what assistance can do. But I think it is absolutely essential that we see the role of aid as one element of development – no miracle cure that alone can create development, but as an important element that, together with policies, business development, trade and peace-building, can contribute to rapid development. Let me finally put it in perspective: 40 pst. from the State budget of Tanzania – Norway’s main beneficiary for many years – comes from assistance. That's $7 billion. The 40 percent is the same as what this magnification allows for, for example. railway development in Norway. The total state budget in Tanzania is SEK 19 billion, the budget of the Municipality of Oslo is DKK 30 billion – so to believe that aid alone can create miracles in a country like Tanzania is to believe in Christmas. But there can be one important contribution, and in Tanzania, after all, despite the fact that the aid is as small as it really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e504	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. Having regard to point (c) of the first paragraph of Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the statement by the Minister for Development be forwarded to the Foreign Affairs Committee for consideration. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e520	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e533	The establishment of the State oil company Statoil, which took place in 1972, was a historic decision. It was in many ways the beginning of a new industrial era in Norway. And it was forward-looking politicians who made the decision at that time. One of the pillars was that here one would have a strong state participation on the Norwegian base, both through the state owned Statoil, through Hydro, which would also be heavy inside, and from the state side. There are few countries that can point to as good a management of their natural resources as just Norway. Oil and gas industries have helped to develop a new and forward-looking industry that has led to employment, growth and prosperity across the whole country. We can be proud of this! The proposal we are discussing today on the merger of Statoil and Hydro petroleum activities has a significant industrial perspective, both nationally and internationally. The proposed merged company StatoilHydro becomes a very strong player in a global world. International competition is tough. Therefore, muscles in both size and human knowledge are required to match the international market and industry. With the grips we are now doing, StatoilHydro, in our opinion, will be well equipped to meet this competition. The new company will also be well equipped financially, technologically and organisationally – in other words, much better equipped than when they were alone. We're talking about what's now going to be the world's largest offshore company. Our competence in this area is at the top of the world. That doesn't mean we're not going to prioritize Norwegian pedestal. Continued domestic investment is a main priority, and the international segment will be added and provide the company with a new, exciting additional dimension. Over the decades, Norway has gained considerable knowledge and understanding of the extraction of oil and gas. Especially great is our knowledge of operating on large sea depths in demanding waters. We contribute with this decision to secure and further develop Norwegian competence and knowledge, and we ensure these values a future beyond Norwegian soil. This is in many ways a historic decision for the future. That is why I am pleased that a unanimous committee is now focusing on the main issue, namely, yes to merger. Of course, with my stand in Rogaland, I am pleased that the Stortinget has so strongly stated that the merged company is to be further developed from Stavanger. The head office of StatoilHydro shall be located in Stavanger, ensuring Stavanger as the European oil capital also for the future. At the same time, it ensures the future of the company and our common oil competence. Stavanger has the country's leading oil environment, and a future starting point in this environment will help to ensure future value creation and further development for this important industry. This is also in line with what the Great One said in 1972. We are committed to further developing the Norwegian oil environment. This is why we assume in our attitude that the investment in research and development must at least be at the level of today's companies. In particular, there is tension and expectation of future activity in the northern regions. We will come back later in the debate to how important it is that what is happening in the northern regions will have consequences in terms of employment, organisational structure, value creation and rural development. There are major challenges to the merger – of course it is on a Norwegian base. StatoilHydro becomes a major national player. A fundamental prerequisite for implementing mergers in Norway of such size as the one we are considering today is that we have to take care of a broad societal need. In particular, we need to look at whether the merger leads to increased market power and loss of diversity. For this reason, we will follow closely what will happen in the future, developments in the different national competitive areas, developments in the supplier industry, and, last but not least, the functioning and future functioning of the different supervisory authorities of the country in this area. I stress that with the supervisory authorities – other speakers will come back to it – I mean both the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Directorate of Oil, Petoro, Petroleum Control, etc. The competition between Statoil and Hydro has been a very important source of information for the government. The aggregation may now lead to a reduction in some of the information bases. I would like to remind you that one of the Government's proposals to the revised national budget proposed to lift the ceiling of 60 employees in Petoro. It's a signal to strengthen just these areas, and we'll come back to it further in the process. As far as the supplier industry is concerned, I would like to remind you that I do not see it as dark as some people make it. This is also a rewarding opportunity to be further ‘lifted’ into the world by the new large company. It will mean new challenges for the Norwegian supplier industry, but I think it will have particularly positive ring-effects in getting out. I would also like to underline an important point, namely that the new company, as it stands in the proposal and as they have expressed themselves, is now to bet in renewable energy. They have already done so, but they need to develop it further. It is difficult to address these merger-related challenges without, at the same time, linking any comments to the opposition's proposals in this case. I am not surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party are in favour of massive privatisation and the sale of the Community's natural resources. It's been a policy they've been running all along. There is this well-known policy in the farm. But that the Christian People's Party is involved in this process is a little strange. I think that the Christian People's Party has been a little misled in this context. I note with great satisfaction that the Christian People's Party joins in that we buy up to 67 pst. in the company over time. I would like to remind you that the Christian People's Party has in the past stood strong and has the tradition that the natural resources belong to the community. Let's look at some of the consequences of the opposition's proposals. It involves a large-scale transfer of resources on a Norwegian base from StaoilHydro, which is largely owned by everyone, to private ones, a transfer that must go on its own to weaken the company that we have been building up over decades, all too much to reduce the community's power over Norwegian pedestal. I would like to stress that power lies here, it lies in Stortinget and in Norwegian oil policy. That's how it has been, and so it's going to be in the future. That is why we are now very careful both in the proposition and in the setting that we should follow and implement the necessary measures, based on what I have said earlier, among other things. on the supervisory authorities. Then we also need to put in place the necessary measures. That is why we are not promoting proposals today, nor are we participating in proposals based not on realities and facts, but on short-term populism. The fact that power in Norwegian energy policy is going to be in Norwegian power is the main reason why we are now making sure that the state is increasing its ownership from 62 p.m. to 67 pst. It's in line with the Government's ownership message. We want 2/3 state ownership of the new company. This is also in line with our history and our traditions in this sector. Our natural resources should belong to the entire people and not just to any private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e573	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e576	In the election campaign, the Labour Party was very active in stressing the need for an active industrial policy. The Bondevik II administration was repeatedly pointed out that the toolbox was empty. In this case, however, it does not seem that the government has a toolbox. The only proactive measure developed by the Government to ensure the diversity of the socket, in order to ensure research and the supply industry, has been an increase in the ceiling of 60 employees in Petoro. In all other areas, the government says that one should engage in dialogue, and that one should follow closely what is happening, but one therefore does not indicate any concrete direction. Where has it become of the Government's toolbox in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e581	The government is pursuing an active enterprise policy. Why is this case in this room today? Well, that's an initiative on the part of companies, of course, but here we have an industrial policy in which we actually signal clearly what we want with this company in the future, how much ownership we want in the company, and what should be the company's visions both nationally and internationally. We're not in jail with our hands. We also continued this in the ownership message, which Stortinget has previously dealt with. There we clearly say from which institutions we're dealing with here, which we're all so happy with, and which we're going to be involved in and further develop. We're not passive, we're taking the measures. We're also saying in relation to what the replicator is asking about now, that these are things that we're concerned about. We'll follow up on exactly this supervised thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e586	There has been a long tradition in Norwegian oil policy with broad political consensus. It has been through regular consultations between the government and the opposition as far back as the representative Nordtun was concerned in his intervention, in important petroleum tax issues and in other important oil policy issues. But then not in this case. Here the opposition was informed of the conclusion as a fact via the morning news. There has been no consultation on compensatory measures. The Competition Authority's report has been tried to prevent the public, and therefore also the Stortinget, and the Stortinget was not informed of the matter. My question is whether the representative Nordtun has such contact with the head of the Government, the Prime Minister, that he could reflect a little on whether this is an accident at work, in this, as he called, historic decision, or whether it is a new line from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e593	I think Per-Kristian Foss addresses very important questions. I referred to what happened in 1972, etc., and since then success has followed Norwegian oil policy. We have had a rather robust majority in this Chamber, and the leaders of the framework conditions have been firm and firm over time. I get to hope that it will still do so in the future. I just note that with regard to the matter at stake today, namely the merger, there was also a right early in the day and said yes to this merger. What contacts it has been, I do not express myself. I'm not in that position here. I have found out how we have dealt with the matter in the committee – and we have had certain contacts – but what we are considering today is, after all, the main thing, namely yes or no to the merger and possibly to buy up from 62 to 67 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e600	I expect that there has been a dialogue between the big business groups and the government in the process of this expansion proposition. My simple question is: Did the Nordtun representative know about the Competition Authority's report when this dialogue took place?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e607	We have been familiar with the various dialogues that have taken place in the matter since it came to Stortinget, and the correspondence that has been between the Council of State and the members of the Committee. With regard to the supervision of competition and to what has been done with procedures in advance before the case was brought up, I have to show to the greatest extent that the supervisory bodies that the EEA and EU have on these issues have made a very thorough assessment of the case. I just note that they have concluded that it is in good order for these companies to merge, and it does not conflict with the supervisory authorities according to what the EU has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e614	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e618	It's with mixed feelings I'm standing here today when we're going to deal with a case as important as the merger between Statoil and the oil part of Hydro. The Progress Party has been in favour of a merger between these two companies for a long time – long before this became a theme for the Stortinget and this government. Former party president of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, aired the idea years ago. He did not receive any support, but now it is a unanimous growth saying that this is a sensible thing to do. At the same time, I note that the political action needed for the oil policy as a whole, which was expected of an overall increase, was not delivered in this case. From the collapse proposition, we see very clearly that the government is carefully observing what is going to happen in the future, and is going to engage in dialogue with the parties. On the other hand, the opposition has presented a comprehensive policy to safeguard value creation in addition to the interests of StatoilHydro. And the article by the spokesman from the red-green parties, Tore Nordtun, reinforces this feeling, for his posts, and not least his answer to my question about what the Government has done in terms of the value creation of the socket, that is, the active business policy, was answered with clear reflections about StatoilHydro as a company. But Norwegian capital and Norwegian value creation are much more than StatoilHydro. It should at least be much more than StatoilHydro. On the basis of the general policy presented by the opposition, the Progress Party will wholeheartedly support the merger, but we should have wished that we could contribute to a more active policy being pursued by the majority on the Stortinget. The merger is undoubtedly positive for StatoilHydro. We believe that the company will stand together better than what they would do separately, at least in most areas. The companies will be able to obtain synergies, and the government will mention that a forecast of a saving of about $4 billion a year through synergies. One will be able to save money on the operation of fields by seeing things in a complete way when making purchases and new investments. When attempting to obtain activity abroad, one could avoid unnecessary competition between themselves on something that would be completely unnecessary from a Norwegian perspective to compete. The new company is technologically strong. It's used to solving major challenges, as we see in Worm Lange, on Snow White, and not least in many of the older areas in the North Sea. There is an important enterprise in many parts of the country, and therefore it is good that some clarifications have been made about the location of the headquarters and part of the activity that is going to take place around it. We're missing out a little bit more weight on what's going to happen in the northern regions, but a lot is well explained. That's good. I don't think there's so much disagreement in this room either. So what is going on is not what is going on in the future about StatoilHydro's operations, but it is going on with the oil policy leaders, that is, what this room was actually most concerned about, namely the policy to be pursued. For the purpose of the merger, one of the largest and most important changes to Norwegian oil activities will ever result. It was the opposition to point out very early, even though some media say it hasn't happened before the last few weeks. If you look at the minutes of the Question Time on 10 January this year, you will see that the merger was taken up as a topic. Erna Solberg from the Right and the undersigned expressed joy over the merger in isolation, but pointed out that we feared that the new company would become an enormous giant who would dictate what is happening on the base, with the concerns it means for the total value creation, for the supplier industry, for the research activity, etc. It is also interesting to note that the Minister of Oil and Energy confirms in his reply that StatoilHydro is a dominant player on Norwegian pedestal, and I thought that dominant actors we wanted to avoid, that this was something that was actually perceived as negative. Thus, everyone in this room — at least from the opposition — assumed that the political craftsmanship led from the Government until the proposition was presented took the challenges seriously and promoted measures that were actually in line with the size of the merger. When we got the proposition a few months later, it was just to say that it was a big disappointment. The government is good at describing the challenges and the existing situation, but it is very poor to turn this into political action. The government does not deliver the political craftsmanship that many expect, and the solution, as I have mentioned, is that one should follow closely and engage in dialogue. But then, after the proposition's presentation, there has been one proactive grip, and that's that one removes the roof of 60 employees in Petoro. So Petoro is the only proactive approach of importance presented by the Government in the greatest change in Norwegian oil activity of the time. This passivity can cost society dearly, because even if one can enjoy billions of dividends from StatoilHydro every year, then only a marginal decrease in the value creation of the base overall will have a much larger figure than the one that can get increased dividends from StatoilHydro's foreign investment. Then you have to ask the question: what should one do with an active enterprise policy when the government lacks direction? On the other hand, the opposition has been active and points to a number of key success factors for the good value creation of the socket. We have pointed out the importance of competition and diversity, of the importance of competing oil companies, and not just that the State should be a dominant owner or dominant in the company. We have highlighted the importance of a wide range of research work, a vital supplier industry and administrative competence and capacity. We've said that it's important to maintain the near-success factors. We have therefore promoted a number of measures that the Government itself should have promoted in the proposition, because it is quite obvious that they are being implemented. They shouldn't be controversial either. But we notice that the government has nevertheless not done so. This applies to requirements such as: reduces the dominant market situation of StatoilHydro on the base, by laying down some principles for granting new licences, such as: had asked StatoilHydro to reduce ownership interests in marginal fields, so that one gets more operators that could be competitors, both to stimulate research and to stimulate the supply industry. We have specifically asked for the strengthening of the Petoro and the Oil Directorate. We have asked that at least an evaluation of the situation for the supplier industry and the research situation be submitted. Not even that, an evaluation, the red-green parties manage to say that they want to support. No, the government parties do not actually support any of the opposition's proposals. With the promise of an active industrial policy, it is quite alarming. This matter could have been a signature matter for the Government to show what they believe in practice both with an active industrial policy and active ownership. Instead, we end up with active observation. Where the Red-Green accused the Bondevik II government of having an empty toolbox, the Stoltenberg II government is standing again without a toolbox. While the government – with the Prime Minister at its head – has stood outside the Director's office with pompong and cheerleader-facts, so red-green deposit representatives have stood outside the same offices and asked people to walk the plank, or at least they need to survive as mailmen. The only thing that has contributed to a fierce commitment to the debate in the Red-Green Camp has been the discussion about what the name of the company should be. So what the child's name is, it's been the most attractive thing to debate. As soon as the landfill proposal was presented and this was decided, it has been silent as in the grave. That is symbolically correct, because it is also in the grave the active industrial policy has ended. This was not unexpected when one has seen how the red-greens have behaved on the Stortinget after the election, and seen in the light of the other promises they have made about an active industrial policy and an active ownership. It was promised that you would save the Union. That farm is in the grave. The industrial power regime was first promised before Christmas last year, so in revised this year, and it has still not been submitted. Active grip was promised to fulfill the promise of gas pipes to Grenland. So far we have seen that it has been postponed by two years, without the government having promoted any new measures that the Bondevik II government has not already taken. It was also a promise that one would save the petrochemical industry from being sold abroad. The last company was sold last week. However, what is most critical here, from the point of view of the Storting, is not that the Government is breaking its promises of an active industrial policy or an active ownership. It is not really that the government is in danger of shoving away great values on the base, and that one destroys competition and only tries to compensate for it by increasing its ownership. What's most critical here is the piece of information, which many people feel has been bad. The government has a majority on the Biggest – they obviously know that, and it makes a difference. On the part of the government parties, one does not try to make a broad settlement in such an important matter as this. You also take the flow of information very easily. In such a heavy matter as this one should have done its utmost to ensure a broad compromise that goes across government constellations in the future. Here we are talking about an important issue that has such a huge impact on the value creation and income of the Norwegian state for a long time to come that one should be sure that the decisions that are now being made are robust, whether or not one receives a government change in 2009 or perhaps before that time, so that it does not become an incentive in itself for new party constellations to try to make changes. It hasn't happened. The red-greens act as if they are going to be governing for the future, while the gallupes show that much indicates that it can change in 2009. When we see what kind of demands are made by some red-green representatives in climate policy, there is a lot of evidence that you don't have to wait until 2009 before changes happen. With regard to the oil industry and the oil policy, where one has had a long-term objective of ensuring long-term, long-term, predictable framework conditions, and where one has tried to achieve the broad compromises in the Storting, it is sad to note that the time has passed, that one now has a narrow majority, and that we are experiencing two very strong fronts in the committee. The opposition parties have been very willing to compromise to get the long-term lines, but the government parties have had nothing to give. This is probably because we are seeing today that oil policy is shaped by the two largest counterpoles historically, the Workers' Party and SV. When they finally agree, anything that reminds of a compromise with another lot will mean that one moves the fragile balance point, so that the least common multiple becomes inconvenient to one of the lots. When we look at the position today, we see that the opposition actually has eleven joint proposals on such an important issue – eleven joint proposals in oil policy. There are, in fact, eleven more common proposals than the red-green parties were able to agree throughout the previous period when dealing with the two major oil policy messages. It says a little about how the opposition wants to cooperate today, where the Workers' Party and SV were unable to cooperate in the previous period. As for the information flow and the report of the Competition Authority, which the representative Foss had in mind, it becomes to me a bismach in my mouth when one indicates that the Competition Authority's report could get a few hold of it, because it was, after all, on a mailing list inside the Government. It is possible that the Progress Party, with our 38 representatives and some dozen advisers and consultants, had had time to mess through all the mailing lists that float in the government apparatus at all times, but I don't think, for example, that. The Left and Christian People's Party would have that capacity. When one sees what kind of work pressure the government pushes on the opposition in the last weeks of the session, one should not expect the opposition to have time to look through all sorts of internal procedures in the Government. One must expect the Stortinget to actually receive the documents relevant to this matter. Then the opposition and the parties on the Storting themselves decide whether this is of importance to the matter, or whether to take it easy. It gets to be the opposition parties, or we're going to say all of the big parties, choices and nothing the government sits and evaluates on its own behalf and likes to filter out the documents that it doesn't see as very beneficial for its own proceedings. So I hope that the Council of State will come into this quite thoroughly and explain why the Stortinget did not receive the Competition Authority's report immediately, and how he will avoid this happening in the future, and that one would like to have a clear excuse for this happening. It's the Storting one's relationship, and not just four opposition parties that sit in minority. Finally, I want to join the representative Nordtun, who accuses the Right Party and the Advance Party of selling natural resources. If I don't remember correctly, the representative Nordtun himself was involved in part-privatizing Statoil a few years ago. That's fine. There was no talk of losing control of natural resources at the time. The natural resources belong to the community and are therefore managed by the government. So it's the state by the big business and government that licenses individual companies or a consortium of companies to extract these. But control and ownership are still with the state and thus the most people. Nordtun gives the impression that by selling down to a smaller percentage of the ownership interest in the country, it loses control of this. It's putting this completely on your head. It shows how a person tries to remove the focus from what is important in this case – unfortunately. I address the proposals to which the Progress Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e665	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has drawn up the proposals he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e670	The Progress Party believes that the State is a bad owner, among other things: because the State does not at all times maximise the values of the companies. In connection with the merger case of StatoilHydro, there is reason to assume that this programme formulation and attitude are not neglected, because in a proposal in the setting says, among other things. Progress Party: ‘The decision asks the Government to require StatoilHydro to contribute to the acquisition of an adequate holding by the new operators by also transferring appropriate holdings in fields and licences within a specified time limit.’ It is a proposal which will undoubtedly weaken the company's values, i.e. not what the Progress Party believes must be, namely the company's value maximisation. Does the representative believe that the Progress Party in this case supports its own programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e682	No, by no means. I think the representative Pedersen here is trying to draw parallels that can't be drawn in this context. What one believes with the proposal is that we want to ensure the maximum value of the community, by reducing a very dominant owner and thus ensuring competition on the base. The Progress Party has great faith that competition brings out good things in the actors who contribute to it, given that you have a good code at the bottom and not just run anarchy. But by getting a better competition, you're increasing the value creation. When we say that one of the requirements to allow such a merger should be that one also looked at the portfolio of StatoilHydro, StatoilHydro himself could say that it would be acceptable to continue the merger, or if they would not think it was. Note that the Progress Party and the opposition parties do not say that one should take large holdings from the large operator companies. But in some small areas where one can actually get other companies into a simple way, and would like to transfer the operator too, that would make sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e691	The Party of Progress and the Right is aware that ‘the State, as a joint owner of an listed and commercial Statoil, is aware of its responsibilities’. There's something that the Center Party agrees with. At the same time, they are concerned that political uncertainty is unfortunate. It is also a signal that can reduce the value of the company. Then we are surprised to note that they are making a whole series of proposals that are being made in the media as a warning about rematching important areas after the 2009 elections, about whether one comes in position. Isn't it just spreading political uncertainty, giving a signal that can reduce the company's value?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e698	I would like to make it clear on behalf of the opposition that we are not warning about the merger itself. It goes its way, and those who are private owners should know that a new government, from the opposition parties, will not try to destroy those values – they're stuck. You can also question why the government thinks this is important, and use it as the only argument to buy up to two-thirds of the ownership of StatoilHydro that you will avoid that the minority can prevent changes to the statutes. What we're warning you is a change of heart about oil policy. If no opposition party, or any party, should be able to warn you that you want to run a different political line than the government that is sitting there, you can just stop election fighting. That is precisely the point, one fights in election campaigns – and to the day-to-day on the Stortinget – about influencing the direction of that policy. Of course, other parties in the government will influence the direction, and then the voters themselves will choose whether they want a new direction, or whether they want to continue the course of the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e705	The Progress Party wants primarily a government sale in StatoilHydro to 34 p.m., and after the Progress Party's own figures, this will amount to about SEK 150 to 180 billion. It would be nice to know if the representative can elaborate on what the purpose is. Is it to weaken the State's ownership role and thus influence the company, which the Progress Party itself refers to as a 'dominant' giant, or is it in order to fulfil the party programme, which determines that such sales are to be a transfer of shares to Norwegian citizens, free of charge? Why is this programme item not now being promoted? It could also be interesting to know. This magnification has shown that the Progress Party has promoted program formulation after program formulation, but not exactly this point. Is it because there are one of the very many program formulations in the programme of the Progress Party that are unrealistic?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e712	The programme formulations of the Progress Party programme are very realistic, and if the representative of Terje Aasland misses some of the proposals on the Stortinget, he will have to take them up himself, and we shall be happy to support them. When the Progress Party is talking about the sale of StatoilHydro, it's because we believe that the capital invested by the state in StatoilHydro could have been better used for most people for other purposes. StatoilHydro will survive as a company, and all the experience of the sale that has already taken place suggests that Statoil has come off well and not lost as a company – on the contrary, it has probably strengthened it, because it has gained more transparency in what is happening, increased the dynamics of the company and stimulated it in many other ways. The question that also needs to be asked is: What is the political significance of the state's ownership of 34 pst? or 67 pst.? In particular from the policy that the Government has now pursued, what significance would that difference have? All you do in this merger is you want to increase ownership, but you don't tell me what to use it for. Actually, it's pointless to sit with big capital tied up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e721	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e724	The case-rapporteur, Tore Nordtun, presented it in the line-and-line shift after his statement as a gesture to Stortinget that we have the matter of the merger between Statoil and Hydro's oil and gas division for treatment. This is actually symptomatic of the self-conscious attitude of the red-greens in this area as well. Tore Nordtun knows very well that although we have a majority government, this matter must be formally presented to the Stortinget. However, as has been said in the debate, there has been no in-depth contact between the Government – none of the members of the Government – and the opposition before the matter became known, or during the proceedings in Stortinget. The State Council of Enoxens had a promise of compensatory measures when the merger became known. It's not fulfilled at all. And to all intents and purposes, it has been decided not to inform the Storting properly about the competitive implications and statements that have come along. From the Right we took note of the merger when Prime Minister Stoltenberg presented it just before Christmas. We see that this is an industrially initiated merger, and that there are good arguments that these two companies together can do it better internationally than today. But as we said, the company becomes too dominant on the Norwegian base. It weakens competition on a Norwegian base, so that we assumed and assume that adequate compensatory measures need to be implemented. In 1984 Gro Harlem Brundtland contacted Kåre Willoch to find a solution for Norwegian pedestal that could be predictable for many years to come. This government has chosen to totally ignore the opposition and the aspects of competition. What we see in the Storting today is, in fact, an overall non-socialist opposition that has promoted eleven concrete proposals for compensatory measures. It is, in fact, a rather harsh judgment on bad political craftsmanship from the Red-Green Government. It's also pretty tough that the red-green parts of the Stortinget haven't got a millimeter's chance to move in the Stortinget. And why does this matter? In fact, there is no strength for Norway that an overall opposition must promote eleven measures. Had it been possible to have a dialogue both in advance and in the course of the process, it would actually have been possible for us to have a broad national compromise on Norwegian oil and gas policy in the future, if the arrogance and self-confidence had not been so high. What if you could have predictability in the years to come? But now everyone in Norwegian politics knows that until the 2009 Grand Prix, there is an overall opposition that has had different views with regard to the Government on the need for compensatory measures, and that when one company dominates more than 80 pst. by the operator's responsibility on a Norwegian base, that's not good. It's said that competition works. There is no disagreement about the functioning of competition. But why is it that competition should not work on the base? Of course, competition also works on the base. We know that competition between Hydro and Statoil has developed different technological solutions. Take, for example: The troll field, where one of the companies thought you should take the oil out first. The second thought you should start with the gas. Fortunately, the oil was taken first, so that you could use the gas for pressure support to get the oil up, and Norwegian taxpayers had the pleasure of getting many millions of dollars in additional tax revenue because there has been a proper resource disposal. Of course, there may also be questions in the future where the interests of the company are not necessarily entirely consistent with the interests of the Norwegian State. Who will see the company in the cards? There is, of course, a need to strengthen competition on a Norwegian base. The institutions that lie there must also be strengthened. So, in a line change with one of the representatives, the case rapporteur says that there is «short-term populism» when, among other things, you know. put forward a proposal to strengthen Petoro. I had hoped that today we could have a broad consensus on this, with some compensatory measures, so that there would have been predictability around Norwegian oil and gas policy in the years to come. But it is the government that has to take responsibility for the total failure of the opposition and that this has become a poor solution for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e742	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e745	I use the replica of a never-ending philosophy over the article of the Right Chief Speaker in energy matters. It was an intervention that was out of the question of industrial policy, why we are making this merger, and why Right supported the merger. It was a five-minute tirate on why you should not support the merger – and then you vote for it! In addition, he said that we should have predictability in Norwegian oil policy over time. Of course we should. There was one of the pillars in my main post. But predictability was not much present in Børge Burnde's articles. I have to ask Børge Brende: Should Børge Brende now be warning about Norwegian oil policy – because this is about it – in 2009, if we were to be so unhappy to get another government? Where is the industrial policy aspect of Brande's articles?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e754	I think there's every reason to sharpen my ears when Tore Nordtun is talking about a lack of industrial policy ambitions. It's an area his party has quite a lot to do. So I think that Tore Nordtun must have had a pre-written manuscript on his line that wasn't exactly adapted to the post I made. If the representative Tore Nordtun had taken the trouble to hear what I said, he would have heard that I began by saying that there were clear advantages for these two companies with a merger, internationally. Therefore, the Right also took note of the merger. Many were surprised. But we assumed that there had to be compensatory measures. Where did the compensatory measures come from? They're not here. If it is the case that the representative of Nordtun is now concerned that proposals for changes to the oil policy may be made later, he should have thought about it when we had the matter under consideration in the committee. It should also have thought in advance, so that there could have been a dialogue with the opposition. But the government has to take responsibility for the fact that there has been zero dialogue, zero initiative and not the state-run effort that former governments have shown in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e763	I must be allowed to say in the introduction that it has been interesting to follow the person Børge Burnde in different roles – as Minister of Environment, as Minister of Industry and now in the tasks he has in Stortinget. I would like to give him the right right to have a merger in isolation towards less competition, but at the same time it will open up a room for new policies, for better supervision and for active organisation for new and smaller players. Based on his experience as Minister of Industry, my question is: When can the State best value its interests – when selling in the new company, or buying up to a multiple of two-thirds in the long term?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e770	First: It is nice that the representative Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa has followed my political work. When it comes to Statoil and Hydro, in various debates, I have had the feeling that the Central Party has actually had some sense of the arguments that, among other things, have. The right has promoted the need for compensatory measures, so that in the future there will also be competition on the base. That's why I think it's really a shame that we haven't come a little bit further into being able to reach an agreement on this. I think you've actually missed an historic chance because the government hasn't been in it. So to the issue of ownership. The right view is that it holds that the State owns half of the merged company, 51 pst. Today, the state owns under 50 pst. in Hydro. It's also been a quite straightforward owner's seat. The problem is that too much state ownership can actually lead to companies ruling the state, not vice versa. We have to make sure that it's not the tail waving the dog.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e779	When I hear the representative Mr. Børge Brende say, I must first say that the Right does not only have an honorable history of oil policy – even though the then Minister of Finance Foss, a few years ago, stood up in a priceless way against the oil companies' raw rides for lower taxes. If it were the case that the Right Oil Policy from the 1970s had been in force, the State Treasury would have been slimmer and the transfers to the districts would have been smaller. I would also believe that Norwegian oil policy had looked a little different. Now the Right and Advance Party use the opportunity to try to weaken the state ownership of StatoilHydro. Then my question is: What action will the Right take to ensure that the Stortinget and the Government have the necessary influence over Norwegian petroleum policy, with a weakened ownership role in StatoilHydro?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e788	Before the representative Mr Børge Brende responds, the President will ask the representative to assess whether proposal No. 13 to be recited?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e791	Thank you for that. In doing so, I promote on behalf of the Right Amendment No. 13th@item: inlistbox Then to the representative of Kristoffersen. I heard no evidence of the claim that – allegedly – the state treasury had been slimmer with our oil and gas policy from the 1970s. On the contrary, I believe that we have been a guarantor that there will be competition on the base. We had Saga in our time. They disappeared, and now we're left with one merged company. I believe that we should all be able to address the challenge it poses on the Norwegian pedestal, and that is, in fact, what the Government is proposing, but no concrete action is proposed to respond to this. In terms of ownership, I think you can achieve absolutely everything you want, by the fact that the state owns more than half of the company. But there should be no indication that the company should start to be run in detail, on the contrary – if that is the purpose of ownership for the red-green side.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e800	The representative Børge Brende has drawn up the proposal he referred to. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e805	I'm sorry that I've spent some time taking down the pulpit, but there have been tall dark men in front of me on the pulpit today. Let me start by saying that I share the rapporteur's opinion when he says in the introduction that what we are doing today is a historic decision. Norwegian oil history is almost 40 years old, and we have gone through many epochs since when we created Statoil in 1972. We had back in time a situation where we had three oil companies – a state, a semi-state and a private one. So the private disappeared into Hydro, and we got two companies. Then we got partial privatization of Statoil, and today we're going to make a decision that we're going to have one big oil company in Norway. You can never make historical decisions and be absolutely certain of the outcome. Historical decisions are characterised by the fact that there is some uncertainty attached to them, as is the case with this Decision. In fact, it is today an overall committee that supports the merger. If you go back in time, you'll see that this is the widest majority of Norwegian oil history ever – even though the debate may not have been marked by it so far. The main rationale for the merger has been the industrial perspective of the two companies, both internationally and in Norway. There is an overall committee that believes that the merger represents net benefits for the shareholders of the two companies, compared to not doing anything. These benefits are closely linked to the international activities of companies. The benefits of the merger by the State are increased profits from growth and, where appropriate, higher earnings. But it is also right to say that these values are marginal in relation to the income the country has from Norwegian pedestal, and so it will continue to be in the years that come. The merger will have a positive impact on parts of the industrialisation potential of the Norwegian supplier industry, but only if they are able to maintain their technological leadership. The Committee is also united in the view that the benefits of the merger related to internationalisation must be weighed against some of the disadvantages that would be faced in Norwegian soil due to the loss of diversity and the loss of competition. However, the Committee takes the view that, in the case of the merger, the State must take a broader view of society, in particular when the merger leads to an increase in market power and loss of diversity. It will also have an important and more important role to play in the future, both in the Ministry of the Environment and in the Ministry of Oil and Energy. In this way, in our view, it is necessary to envisage a strengthening of both State pollution control and Petroleum monitoring in the future. I would also like to say that it is gratifying that a unanimous committee emphasises that we are pleased that the new company will be an energy company that will have a large involvement in the field of new renewable energy and will be one of the most important actors we have in terms of developments related to CO2 deposition and capture. These are important tasks for this field. In the debate today, I have heard the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right talk about these eleven compensatory measures which are intended to offset the negative effects of the merger. Yeah, it sounds impressive. But there's been little about the content of them. I'm not as impressed with all of those measures. Let me refer some of them. Proposal 1 is merely to adopt a criticism that the report of the Competition Authority was not submitted to the Stortinget. Proposal 8 is that the Storting should ask the Government for a big deal on how the merger has been carried out. Proposal 9 is to ask for a notification on petroleum policy. Proposal 10 is to ask for an evaluation of the situation of the supplier industry. Proposal 11 is to ask for the Petroleum Control to have a district office in Harstad. At least none of the five proposals would be in the vicinity of being compensatory in relation to the negative consequences of any merger. Finally, let me say, there have been many people who have been involved in the debate. Here one Sunday morning I even heard that the Language Council had pointed out that the spelling of StatoilHydro was wrong. You don't have the form in Norway, you should have a hyphen. We have not taken a decision on this, but we feel comfortable supporting the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e844	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e848	The representative Sørensen reviewed the list of eleven opposition proposals and said that it is not all she is equally impressed with. The suggestions she didn't mention, I guess she's impressed. In this case, there is something that the government should notice – that the opposition has come up with several proposals that SV would also appear to be important to ensure that the oil policy in Norway takes account of a completely new situation on the base. One is given a dominant actor, in order to use the oil minister's own words, and then a new policy should also be adopted that takes into account the fact that one has one dominant player instead of two major competing players. The only thing the Government has presented with concrete proactive measures is to raise the ceiling on the number of employees in Petoro. Or can the representative Sørensen refer to other concrete actions by the Government, since she is not so impressed with the opposition proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e855	Let me make it clear that there's probably none of the suggestions I'm very impressed with. In this way, I would have no need to vote for any of those proposals. On the other hand, I do not think that the proposals are at all proportionate to the criticisms raised against the Statoil-Hydro merger. If that criticism is so fundamental, it is as fundamental as both the representative Burnde from the Right and the representative Solvik-Olsen say in their speeches, I think the natural conclusion would have been to vote against. And that's an honest position, we can respect that. But to claim that these really relatively small measures that the opposition is promoting jointly are going to be able to mitigate the enormous negative consequences that the opposition describes, I don't think that's right. I also don't share the description of how negative these consequences are going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e860	SV writes in the statement that the party agrees with the boards of Statoil and Hydro when the main reason for the merger is to strengthen the company’s future international role. Now I have the impression that the enthusiasm may have lost its way in the fate of Statoil in Venezuela at the moment, but the question is – after we heard the news the other day that Statoil is planning to set up in Iraq: is it that this SV believes when they are so enthusiastic about strengthening the international role of the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e865	The representative Ivar Kristiansen knows very well that over many, many years SV has represented an alternative voice by being critical of Statoil's international commitment, and for many years we have addressed human rights issues, environmental issues and other ethical issues related to the company's activities outside. We've seen that this development is going to continue. There's going to be more internationalisation — it's going to be one of the important strategies of the new company. For us, it has been important that this should be done in as good an environmentally good way as possible and with as high ethical standards as possible. And we're going to be careful, especially when we're going into conflict areas, and especially when we're going into countries that are known to be too much corruption. Oil companies operate in many of the most contentious parts of the world, and being a strong oil company with great attention to these issues is extremely important also to be involved in setting a better standard internationally. Therefore, internationalisation is also one of the main reasons for this consolidation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e874	The representative Sørensen began his speech by referring to history, and that's what I want to grasp, in relation to the experience we have in having relatively equivalent companies. Does the representative Sørensen agree that we have had technological development, research development and also increased values just because we have had quite equivalent companies? Does the representative share such an assessment – that this has been positive?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e879	It has obviously been positive on Norwegian soil that we have had several companies to play between, because there has been a competition on Norwegian soil. What we see now is an increasingly international competition, and the questions you have to ask yourself are: Will what was right in the last 30 years be what's most technology-driven, research-driven, the next 30? You can also look at other sectors. It's not like that if there had been two mobile companies in Finland and not just one, Nokia, they would have driven better? If Sweden had three Ericsson companies, would it have been better than one? It's not given that what was right in the last 30 years is going to be right in the future. I don't think Finland would have had a stronger mobile company if they had had two Nokias. This may also be the case with Norway when we are going into an international market. It's hard to explain if you're going to build up under the commitment of the state, that you're going to argue for two Norwegian companies, both mainly owned by the state, instead of being out there fighting for one. That's one of the most important reasons for the aggregation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e888	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e891	Today, Stortinget deals with a very important issue for Norway. Statoil and Hydro are two major and important companies in Norwegian business, and both have a large-scale business both in Norway and internationally. Companies are important instruments for achieving key objectives in the field of petroleum policy as well as key economic, employment, research and environment policies. Since the publication of the draft terms of merger, the Christian People's Party has supported them. There are three crucial reasons for: It is industrially right to make better use of the skills and resources of Statoil and Hydro.It improves the position of companies in international competition.It increases the economic value of owners. At the same time, we believe that the Government must assess the impact of the merger on Norwegian petroleum policy. This merger results in substantial changes which have consequences in a number of areas. We therefore need to consider key instruments and a conscious competition policy to safeguard the values of the community. This concerns the management of oil and gas resources, but also the framework conditions for other oil companies and the supply industry. We feel that the government has so far not gone into these questions. The government occupies a waiting and seeing attitude in many ways. For us, the Government's document shows the need for a new expansion message on the petroleum policy. We are also proposing this today. StatoilHydro will have a very dominant position on the Norwegian base. 68 pst. of the company's reserves are here. On an international scale, the company will continue to be a medium-sized company. But the main reason for the merger is to increase the competitiveness of the company internationally, and we have to expect increased activity in the years to come. Nevertheless, the company’s activities on Norwegian soil will be extensive. And here lies the political challenge for Norwegian pedestal. The merger challenges the diversity and competition of the Norwegian petroleum sector in a number of areas. It may have implications for the supplier industry, technology development, research and the exercise of authority — to mention something. In total, it concerns the possibility of maximising the resources and values of the community. Against this background, the Christian People's Party has found it necessary to be involved as proposers on several proposals to ensure diversity and competition in the sector. We believe it is necessary to provide government agencies such as the Oil Directorate and the SFT with increased resources, and we believe that Petoro AS needs more resources and more staffing. In the debate, much of the focus has been on the name, head office, functional distribution in the company and state ownership. All of these matters are important, but there have also been a lot of symbolic discussions. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to insist that the company's registered office remains in Stavanger. We agree that the professional environments that companies have currently distributed throughout the country should be safeguarded and further developed, and that the main areas of business and activity should be operated from Stavanger, Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim. The Christian People's Party also expects North Norway to have more jobs and jobs as oil and gas activities increase in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. In the Christian People's Party, we are very pleased that a joint committee believes that the merged company should be defined as an energy company. This means that the company has a broader activity than oil and gas, e.g. on renewable energy. This is important in the long term. The Christian People's Party also agrees that the state buys up to 67 pst. of the shares in the merged company. The Christian People's Party believes that the government's handling of this matter in relation to important information to the Storting is critical. An assessment of the competitive situation resulting from the merger is relevant to the design of the oil and gas policy. When this information was not considered important in the start-up phase, it tells a lot about the focus on the merger and not the implications of the petroleum policy. But Storting's task is to assess all relevant matters in every case, and the Government has an information obligation towards Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e925	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e928	Sometimes it's hard to understand what the Christian People's Party really means by its policy. Today's case concerns the Christian People's Party's attitude to state ownership. The Christian People's Party wants, as we do, to increase the ownership of StatoilHydro to 67 pst. And it's great that they're in on it. But they do not want to participate in the rest of the comment, which refers to the state's objective of ownership of the merged company. Is it just percent that's important? Does not the Christian People's Party have any opinion about the state's ownership of such a large company? Or is it perhaps a hidden agenda that does not tolerate today's light? Will there be better ownership by participating in eleven proposals that are not adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e933	I'm pleased with this question. The representative, Torny Pedersen, knows well what the Christian People's Party's reason was to be on this very part of the remarks of the government parties. The rest of our reasons for buying-in are related to the ownership message. That's where we have our comments. We don't have any hidden agendas. We have faith in the company, and it's a solid investment. As also the representative Nordtun had in mind, the Christian People's Party insists that we want to care for the community's resources, and Statoil as such is an important company. We don't have any hidden agendas, but we're doing this in full transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e941	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e944	In 1931 a coalition government was formed in the United Kingdom with Labour politician Ramsey MacDonald as Prime Minister. One of the first things the government did was to leave the gold standard. The value of pound sterling should no longer be associated with gold. A former government council under MacDonald, Sidney Webb, then said: «Nobody ever customs us we could do that!» The policy shift was so radical, so contrary to normal thinking and so quickly implemented that it was almost impossible to believe. This policy change changed mental maps; other countries followed. Discussions about economic policy were changed after this, the change of words had to take place within a new paradigm, a new way of thinking. The merger of Statoil and Hydro's petroleum industry is not about leaving the gold standard. It can and should nevertheless be seen as a radical change. Merging has come about quickly. It will change debates on oil, gas and energy policy in the future. So this is a paradigm shift. Today, the Storting will make decisions that will be standing, which will lead to major changes that will be researched and given a place in Norwegian history, networks such as the creation of Statoil in its time, networks like the broad compromise The Stortinget will gather in 1984, then to limit Statoil's power and influence in Norwegian society. The creation of DIEE and the debate on Statoil's role in Norwegian society in 1984 are both instructive and thought-provoking today. StatoilHydro becomes a large company, definitely a giant embellished with other Norwegian companies and not least evaluated in relation to the Norwegian political system. This is a challenge, both in terms of use and distribution of power. The central party is, of course, particularly satisfied that in the future the state will have 67 pst. of the axes of the new company. This is about democracy, about democratically based power to meet the challenges of this merger. National, democratic power and ownership go like a red thread through Norwegian oil and gas history. This is what it is supposed to say: the people, their citizens' elected representatives, are the ones who place the leadership on what this company should be, how it should be, and how it should behave, both in Norwegian society and internationally. Merging will change a lot. Something is fixed: the head office should be in Stavanger. Stavanger shall continue as a geographical centre of gravity and as a starting point for future activity in the south and north. Equally important is this: an offensive, active policy towards the new company to ensure the best possible resource management and increase the value creation from the petroleum industry. Previously, strong and intense competition between Statoil and Hydro is involved. A combination draws in isolation in the direction of a less healthy cape. But it also opens up a room for new policies, for better supervision, for active organisation for new, smaller players, precisely because Norwegian Socket will continue to be decisive in the future for revenues from petroleum industry and the financing of public good and well-being. The basic motives behind this merger and the deep arguments for this merger lie in visions of large-scale international bets, not only in well-functioning democratic countries with robust institutions, such as the United States and Canada. The company will also engage more ambitiously in countries where rich natural resources – historically – have been a curse like a benevolence, countries where resources have not simply led to increased well-being for broad layers, and wars and destructive corruption and mismanagement. Ethics, fair and legitimate behaviour and open processes will therefore increasingly be required and represent hard values that StatoilHydro must live and operate in accordance with, not least because of the majority owner of the company. Indirectly, this is about Norway's reputation. The center party is pleased that the Stortinget is behind the merger. This is a historic day. In this room we should live up to it: an honest, critical debate and then a worthy conclusion – decisions that lead us, Statoil and Hydro into a new future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e961	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e964	It's a little eye-catching to record that all the red-green politicians so far have talked a lot about StatoilHydro and how great this merger is, but focuses very little on the oil policy aspects of the case. It is precisely that the Storting could now have had an impact on oil policy, so that one can avoid the negative aspects of the merger for the total value creation. The representative was also involved in this in her post, where she showed that this is about power, and that StatoilHydro will have great power. So the only concrete thing you're referring to from the red-green side is that you're going to buy yourself into the company at 67 pst. ownership. It will cost 25 to 30 billion kroner, but the economic sense in it will depend on what kind of dividends you expect to get from the company in relation to alternative investments of the same capital. The question will then be political: what does the government believe and the red-green parties you can achieve by owning 67 pst. relative to owning only 62 pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e969	I'm surprised that it seems that such a well-informed representative as Ketil Solvik-Olsen has not read the proposition more thoroughly than he now expresses. He repeats once that the only government has done is to lift the roof of Petoro's add-on. It is true that an assessment of a competitive situation which is important to follow closely, both in relation to petroleum monitoring, to Petoro, to SFT and to the Oil Directorate is given here. But those are budgetary questions. So the question of having 67 pst. or 62 pst. The one that owned 67 pst. of the axes, also has control of the statutes, which is actually very important in a large company like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e976	As I have understood it, there has been a debate in the Central Party on this merger, and not least on the need for compensatory measures. The representative for Storting Per Olaf Lundtigen has, among other things, Reportedly, it is completely wrong that such an important decision for industry and Norway comes without a fundamental and open debate, and that there will be dramatic consequences for Norwegian industry supplying the oil company when there is only one buyer in the Norwegian market – dramatic consequences. Now that the Government has painted itself into a corner and an overall opposition now promotes eleven proposals for compensatory measures and alternative measures in relation to what the Government has come up with, does the parliamentary leader in the Central Party see that it might have been an advantage for Norway in the future too if one had sat down and at least had a dialogue with the opposition, and tried to reach agreement here? For so far away from each other, you haven't, after all, been.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e985	What dialogues have been and are not, I naturally know little more. I can confirm that it has our debate in the Central Party. Otherwise, it would just be missing in such a big and important thing. When it comes to having big and open debates on this matter, I believe the representative Mr. Børge Burnde knows more than anyone that there is something called market-sensitive consideration, and that has seen limits to it. But then to the eleven suggestions. I must say, in fact, that I am very surprised – yes, I think it is alarming – that the opposition has been so little constructive and has gathered here on eleven proposals, which must be seen as the pure demonstration, bearing in mind that today the whole of the Great Britain is in common with this merger, and that many of the proposals that are being made are also mentioned in the proposal as measures by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e994	In 2003, the Stortinge dealt with our control function, and an overall committee says that it is difficult to make demands in relation to government information, but that it is important that demands are made. And then there are three requirements that they set out, namely that the Government has the «right of counsel of the public investigative apparatus», and that it thus has «a special responsibility to ensure that the Stortinget is given a sound decision-making basis», and the Committee points out that «the obligation to provide information is an important criterion for subsequent control by the Stortinget», and stresses that «the detail of the information submitted must be required». My question is: Does the representative believe that this has happened in this case in full?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1003	I see that there is a suggestion in this setting that mentions it. I agree that the three points referred to here by the representative Holten Hemdal must follow as far as possible. I also have to say that this is a matter of competition. It is therefore appropriate that Norwegian Governing Authorities have acted correctly in relation to the EEA Agreement and that the EU Commission did not see any competition concerns in the merger. Then we can equal or not equal that it is also an important aspect of the assessment of competitive relationships. But so it is now determined, without my cork or Holten Hemdal's involvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1012	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1015	The left responded positively to the notification of a merger between Statoil and Hydro. But clearer than any other party, it might have been the Left who emphasized the counter-representation. It appeared as a manifest problem that two competing companies joined together, two competing companies that have contributed to creating large values for the community, also because they have competed with each other. We assumed that the Government would take seriously the challenges of the merger and take compensatory measures. Today we know that this was not the case. It also means that we, who had this expectation, should have been more reserved before we concluded, than was the case. We should have waited for the government's proposals before we concluded. The left vote today for merger. The merger between Statoil and Hydro is well justified by industry. It appears as an obvious advantage internationally that these two companies can work together. But the left will also stress that the new company is well equipped to address the challenges associated with Norwegian pedestal – I would also like to emphasise well-armed, if one so wishes, to engage in a broad energy perspective that goes beyond what has traditionally been the main focus of the company. I am disappointed and surprised that a red-green government has not been more concerned with the competition situation on a Norwegian base, for the competitive situation on a Norwegian base determines the income flow to the state. It should be a red-green government occupied. In addition to focusing too little on the competitive situation and the value creation associated with it, it is evident that the Government took too lightly on the competitive situation also in a broader perspective. I am also disappointed that the Government is so little obliged to strengthen the Oil Directorate and Petoro. It may seem that the Government has intended that with a strong state ownership most things take place. One sees that the government has acted more as the owner than as the authority. It was a jubilee on the merger day, and then it was pretty much done. It is very well illustrated by the way in which the merger has been dealt with by competition issues. It should have been like this that the government was actively inciting to clarify these questions in order to inform the Storting about what has been done in this area. So it hasn't happened. We know that the Ministry of Renewal and Administration has prepared a draft response to the Committee's questions on the competitive situation and that this draft response has been amended and reworked in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, so that the content became misleading. So it might seem like it's not a glitch, but something that's happened over the top. It was presented as a majority government with greater predictability, strengthening democracy and processes that were beneficial to the community. I dare say that a minority government had not dared to come to Stortinget and taken so lightly into the competitive situation relating to the Norwegian sector and the role of the competition authority as the current government has done. I think, on the contrary, that it is that we have a majority government, which has enabled it to get to the Storting with such an easy way of dealing with these questions as is the case. Finally, I want to emphasise the same thing as the representative of the Christian People's Party did, that we now have a company that should be more than an oil and gas company. It shall be an energy company, with all the challenges associated with such broad engagement. I would also like to stress the importance of clarifying the position that the company's business and headquarters should be in Stavanger, and that this should be the starting point for the company's further operations, along with the other premises that the company has. It is important to play on resources throughout the country in order for this company to be able to perform the important functions it has.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1039	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1042	The left is currently involved in a number of the above-mentioned proposals that weaken the role of the state in the management of Norwegian pedestals, among others. by trying to shear StatoilHydro. With regard to the possibilities of governing, there are several sides here. One is to secure the future income of the state, which the Left really wants to weaken by saying in a rather disrespectful way that increasing ownership is only symbolism. Another thing is the state's ability to impose environmental standards through, for example: development of technology in the company. This requires both long-termity, strategy and clear ownership. Action requires the possibility of political governance. The question is then: does Left believe that it is best for the environment that the state, through StatoilHydro, acquires a weakened ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1051	It would be interesting to ask the Council of State if he believes that the difference between the holdings left goes in for, at 62.5 pst. and 67 pst., have a strong influence on the company's environmental standards. In this case, you should buy up immediately and not over time, as the government says. I exclude that the difference between the two holdings has anything to do with the company's environmental standards. With that question, we were given a good illustration that the Government is linked to the government's task as owner and not as a facilitator of activities to provide income to the community. The fact that the State has to deal with such a large player and less competition when operating on a Norwegian base may, according to many who have looked at this, reduce the income of the community. There is a much greater concern than the alleged concern related to the difference in ownership of 62.5 pst., and one of 67 pst., which the questioner emphasizes in his question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1058	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1061	I am pleased that a joint committee has endorsed the Government's proposal to go in for the merger of Statoil and Hydro's petroleum activities. Global assumptions for oil and gas activities are changing at an ever-increasing pace. Similarly, operators must make the necessary adjustments to maintain and strengthen their competitiveness. The merger will, in the Government’s view, provide a competitive energy company that provides the basis for industrial development both in Norway and internationally. The company will be world leader in parts of its business, especially in operations on deep water. It's a historic decision The Storting takes today that there's reason to be proud of. The decision is of great importance not only to the two companies, but also to the Norwegian community. The merger enables us to meet the future challenges facing oil and gas activities in a better way. Norway has significant technological competence in the oil and gas industry. The Norwegian supplier industry shall have a large share of the credit for the technology development that has taken place. The industry has gone from being national to becoming one of our most competitive industries internationally. In ten years, the supplier industry has tripled its international turnover and is now active worldwide. I have recorded that the Committee's minority is sceptical as to whether the merged company will be able to contribute to further value creation on Norwegian base. The government has a much more positive approach to this. The government assumes that the merger will have significant positive effects on the oil and gas activities and the value creation of the industry in the coming years. We have concluded that the merger will not lead to a reduction in value creation on Norwegian base, but we see, of course, that the merger raises several challenges both for resource management and for commercial operators in the petroleum industry. These are given a broad review of the landfill proposal. This also applies to the supplier industry. In the future, the Ministry of Oil and Energy will follow developments in this industry closely. The authorities will strengthen the dialogue with oil companies and the supplier industry on the issues of contract strategy, procurement policy and research focus. It is essential for me that there should continue to be strong competition and diversity among suppliers in order to ensure the best tecological solutions. The merged company will also have a strong self-interest in ensuring efficient exploration, deployment and operation and maintaining a strong and diverse supplier industry. The government will ensure that the administration apparatus has the necessary competence and capacity to properly monitor the petroleum activity. Any proposals for increased appropriations will be made in the ordinary budgetary procedure. In the context of the listing of Statoil in 2001, it was decided that the State should have no less than two-thirds ownership of Statoil. The government is concerned with strong state ownership and believes it is natural to continue this policy also for the merged company. I am also pleased that this view is supported by the Christian People's Party. In granting extraction permits, Norway is obliged to comply with the procedures resulting from the EU concession directive. Allocations shall be made in accordance with the basic principles of non-discrimination. This means that the Ministry of Oil and Energy will not be able to fail to award shares in the extraction permits to StatoilHydro on the grounds that the company is large or has a strong position on Norwegian pedestal. I want to add that not least Statoil and Hydro have been responsible for a large part of the monitoring and operations in the Barents Sea and in the Norwegian Sea. Today's diversity and competition on the pedestal will also be safeguarded after the merger, among others. by the other established actors, the increased activity of the new actors, the concession works and the voting rules of the extractive consent. Statoil and Hydro are currently operating 80 pst. the production of the socket, but in the years to come, a number of other actors will strengthen their position in the establishment. The four main findings planned to be expanded are operated by companies other than Statoil and Hydro – Shell on Onyx, BP on Skarv and Idun, Total on Victoria, Gaz de France on Gjøa and Eni on Goliath. In addition, Shell takes over the Worm Lange operatorship until the fall. In addition, I would like to mention that new actors, i.e. actors that have entered the Norwegian capital after 2000 have become increasingly important in the concession rounds. In the last concession round, TFO 2006, Statoil and Hydro were allocated only 18 pst. by the operators, and in 73 pst. of the extraction permits, neither Statoil nor Hydro participated. Our oil and gas policy should be long-term and recognisable. It shall facilitate growth and further development. Today's decision strengthens the basis for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1089	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1092	New StatoilHydro is becoming a very dominant player on Norwegian pedestal. And precisely in such cases, it is absolutely essential that the decision-making basis put before the Storting is correct and sufficient. In this case, the State Council of Enoxen has emphatically demonstrated the ability to misinform the Storting, and he has failed to provide sufficient and necessary information on the decision-making basis to be put before the Storting. We see in more and more cases that the sitting government fails to comply with its information obligation to the Storting, and is acting more and more arrogantly by having a majority. The type of light dealing with the national Parliament of the country should be reconsidered twice before it continues to hold. My question to the Council of State is: Does he take self-criticism for a lack of handling towards Stortinget, and is he now willing to complain about the handling that has been done by the Government in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1101	First, let me be allowed to say that what I was concerned about, and tried to answer the Storting, was the reality of the matter, namely that the Norwegian authorities had seen no reason to comment to the EU competition authorities in connection with the merger, and that the Government and my intention were, of course, to highlight the consequences of the merger. The problem, however, was that this was not what Stortinget asked for. The Storting asked for something else. Therefore, there is no reason to say anything other than that this was not handled as it should have been from my side. I am concerned that the Storting should have all the information that the Storting should have in order to do the best possible job. After 12 years in this house, I have great respect for the role of the Stortinge and for the Stortinge to have a right and to have all the necessary information. This does not mean, of course, that all the supporting material is immediately sent to Stortinget, but when Stortinget asks about it, Stortinget will of course receive the information. It didn't happen in this context. I'll do my best to avoid such cases occurring in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1108	Let me just start by stating that this government has a majority to act arrogantly. The government has a majority of the Biggest to let go of any dialogue with the Biggest. But it will have consequences for policy, and it is not in line with the ever-increasing desire of the Centre Party over three to four decades in the United Kingdom to establish a broad political basis for an oil policy, on which we are all so dependent, under changing governments. Let me remind you that the last time we had a majority government – and there put the Central Party as a member – that government actually entered into dialogue with the Stortinge to change its own proposition in order to get broader solutions with the then opposition party, the Labour Party. The Council of State now said that he has not dealt with it the way it should have been – the question of information on the opinions of the Competition Surveillance Authority and the relationship with the EU and Norwegian competition authorities. Does that mean that the Council of State has now complained that he has misinformed the Storting, or does that not mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1117	I would like to emphasise once again that I have neither tried nor believed to have misinformed the Stortinget. I have not answered the question from Stortinget as I should have done, because the Storting actually asked for something other than what it got an answer to. I should of course have answered yes, the government has asked the Competition Authority to assess this case, and that it has been part of the ordinary proceedings of the Government. It should have been answered this way already on the first question. I believe the representative Foss with it understands that I would like to see it answered in a different way, and as it should have been answered. With regard to the government's failure to cooperate on this matter, I must say that of the proposals made by the opposition, there are basically two proposals that should have been adopted today if they could be implemented. It is the proposals for the obligation to sell holdings and it is the transfer of ownership. Both proposals disagree with the Government. Other proposals will give us plenty of opportunity to come back to other contexts. And of course I'm concerned about cooperation with the opposition as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1124	On the news yesterday, we heard that Statoil is considering establishing itself in Iraq. The representative Sørensen earlier had an exciting answer in this debate. Three of the points she drew out were human rights, the environment and corruption. Does the Council of State consider these areas to be important? If he does so, what significance does this have for the Council of State in this specific matter, and in other general matters? We're going to adopt a merger, we're going to go into the world, and we're going to be strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1132	The answer to the question if I share the views of the representative Sørensen on this is short and well yes. It is necessary for Norwegian companies operating out of the country to comply with the guidelines we have nationally, to operate under Norwegian law and international law, and to exhibit a high standard on ethical and environmental issues in the same way as at home. With regard to Iraq, the Norwegian authorities support the reconstruction of a unified Iraq. Norwegian authorities contribute as much as we can in many areas. That Norwegian companies are going to get out and establish themselves, yes, it's going to be the situation in the future. It also unfortunately means that Norwegian companies from time to time will both prove to be inside, and will go into, areas that are complicated. It requires the more stringent attention given to ethics, the environment, etc., which has been sought by companies. As an owner, we are also concerned about making sure that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1139	It appeared in the Official Journal of Bergen earlier this week that the reply to the Stortinget, which the Council of State today says should have been handled differently, has been reworked in his own department in relation to the draft by the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, in the sense that it had become misleading. The content was altered and misleading. Can the Council confirm that the answer was adjusted, so that we are now in a situation where the Storting is misinformed? The Council of State is in the situation that he has in this case a proposal from a scarce minority in this room, which says that it is highly critical that the Government did not inform the Stortinget. When the Council of State was in the spontaneous question hour in Stortinget a short time ago, he went so far as to say that, unfortunately, he was injured not to provide the correct information. He didn't say that today. He has said that it is not handled as it should have been. Is it to be understood that, when the Council of State has used the word ‘unfortunately’ to answer this question, he can stand by the answer today and confirm it, and is it to believe that the Council of State has actually regretted it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1150	Once again, I would like to stress that I would certainly claim that I have not misinformed the Stortinget. I have unfortunately not answered the question asked by Stortinget. I should have. It is common practice for several departments to cooperate in questions relating to the work of several departments. It is not always that the draft coming from a department is used exactly as the draft comes from. The representative of Sponheim knows all about this from his many years in government. It is my ministry that formulates the final answer – and – yes, it is right that the draft from the Ministry of Renewal and Administration was not fully used as the draft provided by them. I have now in three lines replied that I would like to see that I answered the question that was asked, and that I had already said in my first answer that the Competition Authority had of course been involved. In it it is that I maintain the answer that I have given earlier, to what the representative Sponheim asks about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1157	It is relatively obvious that the Council of State does not take seriously this matter. There have therefore been very strong comments from an overall opposition in the position of this case, where the opposition strongly criticises the Council of State's handling of the case. I record that, in response to all the questions that the Council of State has now received in the change of line, he avoids answering the questions. He answered something else. That's why I'm going to give the Council the opportunity once more to respond. Does the Council of State, or does the Council of State not regret the way he has dealt with this matter against Stortinget? It's a simple question, and it deserves a proper answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1166	The representative, Jensen, will get a proper answer. I take this matter very seriously. As I said, after 12 years in Stortinget, and having worked in opposition most of the time, I am both fully aware of and fully aware of the importance of the Government providing the information requested by the Stortinget, and which the Stortinget needs in order to do a proper job. Therefore, I have repeatedly said that the answer I gave to this question should have been designed in a completely different way, because the question was not answered. I was busy answering what I thought was the facts in the matter, but that was not what the Stortinget asked for. Therefore, it should have been answered in a completely different way. I take seriously myself, and I think I have so emphatically said that this should have been handled in another way, that the representative Jensen cannot be in doubt if I take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1178	On 18 December 2006, Norway had a trade mark day. Then the controllers of Statoil ASA and Norsk Hydro ASA reported that they agreed to recommend a merger between Hydros petroleum activity and Statoil. The political discussions are many and questionable, but there is no doubt that the merger will create a strong and viable Norwegian player in the global oil and gas industry. Other issues concern the strong dominance of the merged company. This has been taken into account in the Committee's opinion. The bourgeois parties have a number of proposals in this way, proposals that bear more impact on the fact that they would disagree than on the facts of the case. We will follow the situation closely, and any action will be taken if required. The red-green parties will continue to work to preserve diversity and competition on the base, and to that we have a good tool, namely to exercise strong ownership. Citizens can think of that in their privatisation tool. I am of the opinion that today's diversity and competition will be maintained by the other established actors, new actors, the concession agency and the voting rules of the extraction permits. The four main findings, which were also addressed by the Council of State, which are planned to be expanded, are operated by companies other than Statoil and Hydro. I mention Shell, BP, Total and Gaz de France. Eni is the operator of Goliath, and Shell assumes the operator's responsibility at Worm Lange until the fall. Statoil and Hydro are companies that are at the forefront of offshore technology, and they will be well aware when oil and gas developments move northwards. We know that the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea have some more challenges than the North Sea, especially in terms of environment and climate. This was taken into account when we considered the management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea, and I expect the environmental challenges to be reviewed and the answers to be available by 2010. Among other things, Statoil has so far been very interested in Northland VII and Troms II, and I take for granted that the interest is not less after the merger. The merged company will be even stronger for future bets and participation in the northern regions, and I will talk about the Norwegian Sea north and the Barents Sea with the Russian part. Chief Helge Lund in Statoil announced, in an article in Nordlys on 31 May 2007, that there will be more exploration outside North Norway, saying that there is no reason to believe that the bet on StatoilHydro in the north will be dampened when you become one merged company. He also says that the search environment in Harstad is being strengthened as a consequence of the merger. I think it is absolutely necessary that Harstad as a competence environment be strengthened in relation to increased activity in the north. This is in accordance with the opinion of the Committee as a whole, where both the company and the authorities are required to do so. Local value creation must be required already when approving future development plans, and the activity in the north must have consequences for future development, value creation and employment on land under the direction of the company. We have three base organizations in the north. These, I believe, have been forgotten by the civilians in their criticisms. Their names are Brønnøysund, Sandnessjön and Hammerfest. They shall also be used actively for new extensions on the base. They should also be developed by the company, while developing supervisory tasks as activities are strengthened. Most people in the north, not least in the north, are optimistic about the future. Through the management plan and through the leadership of the Stortingen, the new company is now contributing to activities on land, and the diversity we are still to have, this goes straight into the Government's long-term strategy for the north, where research, development and knowledge are also key factors.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1201	I also think this matter, if not in any good way, illustrates the majority of today and the government's line of dealing with the Storting. Rather, there is a lack of will and line on this issue, and it stands in stark contrast to the argument and the statements heard before the elections, about the need for a majority government in Norway that could contribute to the creation of stability, which could contribute to the creation of long-term sustainability. Then, in this big case, you go back on track, when the opposition asks necessary and critical questions. This is answered in the form of purely symbolic policies on the need for social governance, the need for state ownership, as if there is any role in this context if the state is the owner of 50 pst. or 67 pst. Or around there. Then you simulate that you're surprised that someone allows themselves to ask critical questions about the establishment of a company that's not just big in Norway. It's going to be the Nordic's most sovereign enterprise. It is a company to be traded annually for about one quarter of Norway's gross domestic product. At that time, there would be no question of whether it is not the role of the opposition to ask the critical questions, as is the case in this case, because of the importance of the company nationally and internationally. In a period when we see that production on a Norwegian base falls, while it is developing internationally, we also depend on our having a basis here at home, so that the concept that has been the success factor of both of these companies in the past is to stand by. We have to ask ourselves the question: Why have we succeeded in Norwegian oil and gas policy, as we have done? Well, that's of course because we've had faith in diversity. We've cultivated the concept of diversity. We've had an open line to be internationally oriented. I would also like to stress that through political consensus, we have also been able to establish the huge cluster we have in the Stavanger region, which has enabled us to build a knowledge base in important areas, which beats everyone in international competition. Therefore, it is necessary for a company to continue to play the major key role in Norwegian oil policy on a Norwegian base. We fear from the opposition that the dynamics we see today in the form of diversity, in the form of competition, in the form of risk willingness and efficiency will be a little lost on the road with the dominance of the new structure on the Norwegian pedestal. It is therefore not surprising that in this debate, some people ask questions about the potential impact of this merger on Norwegian or Norwegian business. I assume that the position has not prevented me from noticing the fears and critical questions that have arisen, among other things. from the Norwegian and international supplier industries. That is why it is important to get involved in this kind of debate and not just in the form of purely symbolic policies. So a little visit to the previous speaker. I just have to say that I am disappointed with both the Government's, but also the functional protocol, the approach to what becomes the future in many ways in the further engagement in exploration and development, namely the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea. It still seems that the concept of ‘north-to-north’, both by Statoil and by Hydro, is a concept that is not yet sufficiently serious. With history in mind, none of those two companies that are now merging have taken the initiative to propose on their own initiative the establishment of whether there is a supply, helicopter or operating organisation in the north. I would just like to say that if you take the Tribune in the north and are left with the risk factor in the further operation, you will also see in this case that the leading followers of where we're going to be in place in the future will be able to quickly become the foremost opponents if you're going to be left in the Tribune and with the risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1214	The merger of Hydros and Statoil's petroleum activities creates a strong oil and gas company. It is therefore quite natural that this is what is at the heart of the debate here. This is also good from the state's point of view as the dominant owner of Norsk Hydro. From this point of view, I want to draw up another important aspect of this aggregation, and it's also mentioned in the proposition. Hydro now goes on as an aluminium company. With a turnover above NOK 100 billion, it will therefore be among the largest companies in Oslo Børs. It will be the third largest listed aluminium company in the world. The company will have approx. 25 000 employees, and 7 000 of them have their business in Norway. It is a large company, both according to Norwegian and international standards. And so it's the company that's going to carry the Hydro name on. In the ownership notification, the Government stated that the State should continue as a long-term owner and maintain the state holding in Hydro. We do this in order to take care of the model that has given Hydro success, which has helped build up industrial skills, further processing, jobs and good management of large Norwegian natural resources. State ownership ensures the long-term stability of the company on the ownership side and that head office functions remain in Norway. I note that the Storting joins in. I expect that the reindeer cultivation of the aluminium industry will strengthen the company, that it can help secure jobs in Norway, and that Norsk Hydro will further develop its activities in Norway in line with the good traditions of the company. A good interaction between management and employees and the willingness to carry out shifts in teams has been behind the industrial development that Hydro has shown us. Hydro is now becoming a focused aluminium company. As owner, we must help to ensure that the company continues to carry with it the ability to develop new forward-looking activities. On the part of the Government, we are particularly concerned that, in parallel with the development of the business at international level, it also facilitates increased further processing and development in Norway. The dominant ownership of the State shall contribute to ensuring that Hydro has a long-term perspective on its activities, which is necessary to build strong industrial structures. Also in the future, Hydro, like other companies, will convert and renew its business and products. Good adaptability depends on good cooperation with the company's employees, trust-elected and affected communities. Only through such cooperation can security be created even during conversion. Whether Stortinget now accepts the Government's proposal in St.prp. No 60, we will create a strong petroleum company in StatoilHydro, which with the increasing global competition for oil and gas resources will be far better rusted than the companies would have done separately. But in addition, out of Hydro, two other solid international companies that are world leaders in their fields have also come. Yara continues the fertilising activity of the old Hydro and has soon become a leading company in Norway and internationally within its sector. Now we create an aluminium company that should have the same ambitions. Only the value of this aluminium company itself could be of the same size as a total of Norwegian Hydro was at the turn of the millennium. This should clearly illustrate that state ownership does not prevent companies from developing with the dynamics that the environment and development require and allow. Hydro’s development shows that state ownership can contribute to the development of high values both for shareholders and for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1235	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1238	The council talked a little about making StatoilHydro a strong company. Increasing the state's ownership of the company has been the most offensive attempt by the red-green parties to show that they are active in this case. The representative Kristoffersen, from the Workers' Party, was concerned that the state had to have a strong holding, 2/3, to ensure that StatoilHydro took environmental considerations and worked actively in that area. Then the question is: does the Council believe that StatoilHydro will act more environmentally friendly if the state owns 67 pst. by the company instead of e.g. current share of the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1246	As the proposition suggests, it is not least the possibility – in addition to individual themes about what we expect from our companies – to have control of the statutes of such a central company in the future of Norwegian business, which is the reason why we want to maintain the two thirds share, as we previously said about the former Statoil, according to the importance of the company alone. Now, when a new company becomes even heavier, even more important, and gets even more influence on business policy, it should be lacking that we do not have the same ambition for the state ownership that we had for Statoil alone, before the two companies were merged. It gives, as I said, the possibility of having full control, if we want, of changes to the statutes whenever necessary. But it also underlines, of course, our ability to get the sense of what is mentioned in the ownership announcement, both in terms of general expectations of companies in which the state owns, and specifically for Statoil, as the large and important company it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1255	It is interesting to hear the Minister of Industry stress that it is essential that the State owns 2/3 of a company that is so central in Norway. We have a government that will use political governance when it is not necessary, such as. by purchasing up to 67 pst. ownership of the merged company, but which fails at the same time when political governance is needed, when politicians are to interfere by ensuring competition in the market. If you want to follow the Minister of Industry's reasoning that it is necessary in central companies to own 2/3 if you want to ensure political governance, then the question is: Does the Minister of Industry also plan to increase the country's share in excess of the 43 pst? that the State owns in Hydro, to ensure political governance? If not, what's the difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1264	An obvious difference is the size and area where StatoilHydro is going to work. We have, as I said earlier, been clear on the central role Statoil has in oil and gas operations, and the importance of managing important natural resources in Norway through the concessions it has received. It goes without saying that once we have managed this as a policy for Statoil, it becomes even more important in itself by now merging Statoil's oil and gas activities with Hydro's oil and gas activities – simply because the new company is growing and gaining greater importance. With regard to the competitive conditions of the supply industry, which I am also concerned about, the Minister for Oil and Energy has responded very carefully to this earlier in this debate. Let me just underline that the new company, through its international competitiveness this year, opens up new opportunities for the Norwegian supplier industry, which we can lead to the positive side in terms of development also for the surrounding part of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1277	The plans for the establishment of StatoilHydro have caused considerable concern in the supplier industry. It's not that hard to understand, because fewer contractors for the supplier industry mean a poorer competitive situation. When we also get a company as large as StatoilHydro, it can easily happen that the supplier industry becomes more dependent on one company. Even if this company were to take the supplier industry abroad, there is still a lot of scepticism. It is, as I said, a major concern in the supply industry, in the communities, in families and in individuals. My question then is: does the Minister of Industry understand this turmoil, and does he think about this, in addition to following developments and being in dialogue with the parties involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1286	The answer to the first question is yes. The answer to the second question is yes. The Minister of Oil and Energy has already, both in the proposal and in the debate here, and through the lifting of the ceiling on the number of employees in Petoro, as presented by the revised national budget, underlined the need to follow up on this, and how we can do so. In the case of any action in the Directorate of Oil and other matters, it is a budgetary question. It will be assessed when examining the budget. In addition to this, there is no doubt that the uncertainty that some parts of the supply industry may have felt will be greatly affected by what the Minister for Oil and Energy has been experiencing, that one has seen an increasing number of international actors through the last allocations. There are more actors in the North Sea now than it was before. It contributes to a diversity that gives the supplier industry an opportunity. Let me stress that the opportunity we have internationally will also create new industrial opportunities for the Norwegian supplier industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1299	2/3, or 67 pst., holding, which will be the result of the new company after today, gives the owner, in my opinion, one single operating act, namely the power to propose changes to the statutes when you wish. If someone at all had managed to gather all the other shareholders to agree to be against it, it wouldn't have been enough. Question 1: Can the State Council confirm that it is the only operational intervention of importance in going up to 67 pst. ownership? StatoilHydro gets one marshy soil from Stortinget today, and that's: Go out and make the world! The state owns 2/3. It won't surprise me if at some point we wake up to a news that Statoil has found a new partner somewhere out in the world, and will be even bigger. Question 2 is, does that mean 67 pst? will be a limitation on the possibilities of the new StatoilHydros, for example. merging with an oil company and really making the world, which is today the March order from the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1308	To the first question, it is clear that it can be formulated so that it has 2/3, and thus could change the statutes if one wants it – active – is the operational goal and the security we are after, by getting the Storting's permission to buy us up to 67 pst over time. But there are many assessments. It leads to the second question asked by the representative Sponheim. What is certain, at least, is that with the ownership power that we now receive in the new company, we have full control if the owner in the future would have to assess the kind of issues that are hypothetical at the time. The fact that we want a large proportion of ownership is a signal of how important we think it is to have the governance of having a 2/3 majority. It is also the answer to why it is so important even if there should be discussion of other industrial cooperation – but that is, in this context, only hypotheses.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1317	The Council of State is very offensive and tells us everything that can be done if one only owns 2/3 of the company. In Venezuela, Statoil is now subject to a nationalisation process. The company, together with many other non-resident oil companies, has forced the negotiating table to talk about a so-called compensation for the Venezuelan State taking over the ownership of some of the facilities. Analysts suggest that Statoil will have a loss of at least DKK 1 billion – they have invested approximately. One billion dollars in Venezuela. Then my question is, what does the state have – that will get 2/3 ownership of StatoilHydro, or 62.5 pst. – done as an active owner to ensure the values of the country’s ownership in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1324	I am afraid that the representative Solvik-Olsen now blends the role of authority and ownership. The sitting government is just busy not mixing these roles. What is done in Venezuela and other countries are, of course, business assessments. It comes from the new form of company that Statoil has. It is not that we are in the business and quality assurance of that type of agreement. Now it can well be said that when we talk about active state ownership, I think that the representative Solvik-Olsen has come to realize that it has some other shades and denominations than the theme of active ownership and industrial policy in Venezuela. So we believe that the possibility of having a strong ownership in Statoil has proved to be right, and will be right in the new company. But I note that there is a fundamental disagreement between our two parties. The progress party will sell out. They will reduce the income of the company. So we don't want to. We want control.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1333	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1338	There is now a major industrial decision to be taken. It is about facilitating a new company that can acquire margins, win competition and take a better and stronger position, primarily internationally. The dimensions are in a way underlined by the opposition, which despite its criticism chooses not to vote against. I have a great deal of understanding that the merger can bring about challenges that cause concern, but it is mainly positive reactions that have occurred in the cold water, after the merger was announced. The challenges associated with the company’s dominance on Norwegian soil, the relationship with the supplier industry, questions about research and development efforts in the future and the value maximisation of natural resources are all highly justified. Treatment has identified these challenges as very important. There can now be no doubt as to what the government parties are doing for their views, when we are giving authority today to carry out the merger. The majority state in the preamble that the company should have the objective of ensuring industrial competence, jobs and the management of large Norwegian natural resources. At the same time, the majority emphasises the importance of maintaining research and development tasks at a level at least equivalent to the overall level of merging companies prior to the merger. It is difficult to explain more clearly the basis of the merger. I want to elaborate on a few things that are not directly affected, which matter. The ideological governance of companies, with a focus on ‘core business’ or the reindeer cultivation of core activities, has been highly debated. Let me take a few examples: Statoil's sale of Borealis in Bamble a few years ago, and now Hydro's sale of Hydro Polymers, is a pure cultivation of the core business. Despite these stories, we expect the new company to have important additional functions, including: in the field of renewable energy and CO2 management. Thus, if these areas, which are not allocated to core enterprises, are not followed up by bets, this is not in line with the basis of the Stortingen merger. Although ownership is not exercised by Stortinget, I would like to substantiate the following: On the part of the opposition, it has been said that this merger is a major change in Norwegian petroleum policy. My definition is that Norwegian petroleum policy is not exercised through ownership, either by the company, but by the Stortinget. It is, and must be, such that it is the Storting that provides the basis for the petroleum policy. The fact that some people are concerned and sometimes disappointed that oil companies have a strong influence on Norwegian petroleum policy can be understandable, but we must not undermine the role of Storting. It is Stortinget and not StatoilHydro or other oil companies that determine the basis of the company's framework conditions and operating situation. It is the Stortinget that lays the foundation and premise of oil and petroleum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1359	This is a big deal. The merger of Statoil and Hydro petroleum activities has a significant industrial perspective. It is about the management of oil and gas resources in Norway. It is about the fact that the merged company will be even stronger and more competitive internationally, and not least about getting a new company to develop to become an even wider energy company with a renewable energy commitment. To date, we have both professional competence, financial resources and not least a commitment. Therefore, CO2 management and the development of new renewable energy, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, must be important areas of activity for the new merged company. As said earlier in this debate, the Christian People's Party is concerned that one thinks carefully through all the consequences of this merger. It is about securing the community's values and taking responsibility for global environmental challenges. The Christian People's Party agrees that over time, the state increases its ownership of StatoilHydro to 67 p.m., so that state ownership and governance can be guaranteed. I am pleased that a joint committee stresses that the head office of the new company should be in Stavanger, as Statoil's head office is today. It is important to take care of and further develop the amazing environment and competences built up in the Stavanger region. We must not make the serious mistake of undermining Stavanger as Europe's oil capital. Norway has a unique position here, and a move of Statoil will break it up. It's losing Stavanger. But first and foremost Norway is losing as a nation on it. We can look at what happened in Scotland. The Scottish oil town of Aberdeen was long regarded as – exactly – Europe’s oil town number one. Aberdeen and the United Kingdom lost their position in Stavanger and Norway, when BP established its headquarters outside London. Furthermore, I believe that if one had moved the headquarters function from Stavanger to Oslo, it would be a reverse district policy. Stavanger now has the head office of the oil companies, the Oil Directorate and the Petroleum Authority, as well as a unique industrial cluster built up by large and small suppliers. It is important to maintain and further develop the professional environments that companies currently have along the whole coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1379	The activities related to the petroleum activity are one of the most important for employment and well-being throughout the country, and the potential for increased activity is high. That is why there is so much interest in this case in the whole country. I do not see the position that a joint committee refers to the northern areas, and it indicates that the merged company StatoilHydro prioritises the northern areas highly. It is reassuring that an overall committee is concerned about this and that they have this view of the company's future plans for the northern regions. However, I would like to add that the company's future plans need not simply be linked to extracting the resources. We are many who imagine a large amount of oil and gas activity in the north, but the companies should be aware that the inhabitants of the continent expect a significant business in the region to follow. StatoilHydro shall be aware that signals of stepping down important functions in the north may have a negative effect on the attitude of the inhabitants to the extraction and opening of new areas in the rural area. We need support and involvement from the inhabitants of the north in order to open up new areas and thus increase extraction there. I record these days that there have been signs that StatoilHydro will move important functions from his office in Harstad. I just want to add that it is very unfortunate if important functions and competences are removed from the very well-functioning environment of competence built up in Harstad. I hope that these signals are exaggerated, but there is a sceptical attitude in all those who have fresh memories that Hydro, a few years ago with a pen stroke, dropped almost all of his activity in Harstad and moved it to Oslo. This was not exactly a source of enthusiasm for the population. We are many who ask ourselves why no longer can be led from the north, when there is so much good competence in place there already. I am very pleased that an overall committee believes that there is a need to impose strict requirements on local value creation when approving future development plans. This must be so clearly stated that it cannot be misunderstood by companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1394	The biggest deal today is perhaps the most important case of Norwegian petroleum policy of 35 years. Not since the establishment of Statoil in 1972 has the government taken a more important strategic decision for Norwegian petroleum development. There is now the possibility for the authorities and the Storting to be involved in the merger of StatoilHydro. Therefore, it was a huge disappointment for the whole of North Norway when the red-green government presented the merger case, with some general comments about the northern regions, and without Harstad – with Statoil’s solid environment of competence – being mentioned at all. This is alarming, and the government, which almost claims to own the Northern Region policy, has been revealed. North Norway is on track and driven by the load. The West and Middle Norway have been designated strategic bridgeheads for the petroleum industry. However, in the case of North Norway and the northern regions, designated as future oil and gas provinces of the country, neither the Government nor the government parties have been able to renew Harstad’s status as a northern oil capital, as the Right has been called for – despite the fact that the North’s petroleum environment is much more mature today than when the 1970s Stortingen designated Harstad as the main centre of petroleum activity in the north, and despite the fact that Statoil in Harstad has built up a solid environment of competence with nearly 300 employees, the company’s spearhead for exploration and production in northern sea areas. How is it possible that the red-green government parties, with an oil and energy minister from the part of the country, could fail so fatally when it was the most applicable? All red-green talk about the north areas just gets hollower and hollower. The right is calling for the content of the Northern Region policy. Government parties are talking about building skills jobs and realising opportunities in the north, but are repeatedly failing in the hour of the decision. In the StatoilHydro case, government parties had a golden chance to prove that they actually mean serious with their many honorary words in the north. It was a lost man. My colleague from Troms, Bendiks Harald Arnesen from the Workers' Party, has on several occasions asked me to take it easy, implicitly: Only the government parties got a little time on themselves, things would fall into place. So wrong Bendiks Harald Arnesen could take. It borders on the unreal that two Nordic state councils, one newly elected Vice-Chairman of the Workers' Party, and 13 red-green magnates have accepted that the government has put a bomb on Harstad as a northern strategic bridgehead on StatoilHydro's Norway map. Red-green representatives from the north face a challenge in explaining how this could happen. It merged StatoilHydro with a State holding of 70 p.m. becomes one of the main tools of the authorities in the further development of the petroleum industry. As the second largest owner, the State has a decisive influence over the composition of its governing bodies. I would therefore strongly appeal to the Government that we now find room for people from the north of the company's board of directors and business meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1411	I noticed that the representative Børge Burnde referred to the film "Wag the Dog". May I remind you that the plot in this political thriller is that a war was started to cover over other questionable political affairs. Perhaps this image might have greater relevance in this particular matter than the Burning obviously itself was aware of. There is a mixture of expectation and skepticism that I meet the establishment of StatoilHydro – expectation because the merger of Statoil and Hydro's petroleum activity gives the new company enormous industrial opportunities, scepticism because the behaviour of the two companies may raise doubts over the last few years about StatoilHydro will become the industrial engine here to countries that many of us believe the company should and should be. I record, of course, that the two companies justify the merger agreement with their international ambitions. Nevertheless, Norway and Norwegian continental shelf will continue to be the main area of activity of the company. When we know the possibilities that the processing of gas and wet gas that petrochemical raw materials will create in Norway, it is a little strange that this does not have a greater place in the agreement that Stortinget is dealing with today. In fact, Statoil’s sale of Borealis in 2005 and Hydro’s recent sale of Polymers may indicate that companies are not particularly interested in downstream activities. If they take this attitude into account in the new company, it may mean that Norwegian industry is actually deprived of the opportunity to participate in this part of the oil adventure. Here it shall be immediately added that British owned Ineos, who bought Polymers, and who recently also took over Borealis, later to have industrial ambitions in Norway and want to develop the companies. It's as you know, far better to have owners who want to bet than owners who don't. At an industrial seminar in Stortinget last night, Director Kjell Skjeggerud in Norcem said: «I am about to convince the guys sitting on the money bag somewhere down in Germany that it may be worth spending a few dollars in Norway – not just in the East and China.» If the main players in the Norwegian industry sell out in important areas, it is a powerful signal to our surroundings. Let me end by saying that I fully support the comitology that the majority have made, saying that the boards should have a normal term of office, and that the board of the new company should be assessed according to their actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1424	This is a sad day for Stortinget and a sad day for Norwegian oil policy. In this matter, the government has deliberately chosen to break a 30-year tradition with broad compromises in terms of major changes in the nation's oil policy. In all these compromises, the Workers' Party, Right and Christian People's Party have always been involved. The Government has now chosen to build Norway’s new oil policy on the support of SV, a party that has consistently opposed these compromises, and on the Central Party, which itself chose to sign up to the last oil compromise in 2001. What we now see is that we have a government that places emphasis on the interests of the company before the interests of the community. The ownership has not become an instrument of Community interest but an instrument of Community interest. The best illustration of that is the way the government in this case has handled the information of Stortinget. Here in Stortinget, we have taken a round with the responsible state council today, and an overall opposition has come up with a strong, united criticism. The Council of State deliberately failed to use the word ‘complaint’ and consistently said that he took the matter with the utmost seriousness. Well, the seriousness was like a blow from the face when the Council of State sat down and smiled with its colleague the Minister of Industry and the Chairman of the board of the new company. It was actually the only time during the whole thing that the three have smiled at each other. The seriousness was gone. It shows the arrogance this government has towards Stortingen in this matter. I also believe that the company should take on board that we now have a government that strives to be the company's best friends, but that these so-called friends can actually become the company's worst enemies in view of the reputation that the company depends on, both to the outside world, to competitors and to suppliers, because a government that is able to deal with a case in such an arrogant and clumsy way can become a burden for the company that has such a main owner. In its opinion, the Committee has strong leadership in terms of Stavanger as the European Capital of Oil. It's not a negative thing to say about those leaders, but they're not worth the paper they're written on, unless the government follows them up in practical politics and in their leadership towards the new government. To date, the Government has not shown the will to follow that policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1437	Tord Lien's next speaker. Tord Lien's not here. Then we go to the next speaker, Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1442	This is probably the main industrial policy issue of the Storing Session, and the Government delivers nothing but rhetoric at all. In the absence of other terms, one can say that the government has become a nod doll for the industry itself, or at least a tailhang, because StatoilHydro will become an extremely dominant actor. The company will be operator for 80 pst. of today's oil and gas production on the Norwegian base and it will, together with the EEAS, dispose of about two thirds of the remaining resources on the base. I understand that both from the Norwegian supplier industry, from other oil companies and from research communities there has been both scepticism and concern about the company's new position. Indeed, the Competition Authority has identified several areas where the merger may have a negative impact, through its report, a report which the Government has otherwise failed to inform the Storting. The government's indiscriminateness with regard to involving the Storting is problematic and arrogant. While the opposition has stretched out a hand and wants a broad settlement, the government has replied no, and you don't want dialogue. Strict requirements must be laid down for the merger in order to be acceptable. StatoilHydro must reduce its operatorship on a Norwegian base, and the same must apply to its overall market position in fields that are under development or in the late planning phase, not least in the case of light licences. The government alone must ensure that the most active number. The 2 companies receive a larger allocation of fishing area. Petoro and the Oil Directorate need to be strengthened, both in terms of knowledge and staffing. It will then be particularly important for the State to exercise its ownership to promote competition and diversity on Norwegian soil and in Norwegian society as a whole. So far, the Government has not proposed a single compensatory measure. This could have dramatic consequences for the whole of Norway, but especially for the Norwegian supplier industry and Norwegian petroleum research. It is problematic to look at the government’s history in the field of competition and on a case-by-case basis where the Competition Authority’s supervision has been outrun for purely political and tactical reasons. It is also problematic that the Government does not seem to be able to distinguish its role of authority from its role of ownership. While on the one hand you have no scruples about using the power of ownership, the supervisory authority and the role of authority are completely absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1453	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen said in the debate that he could not see the importance of owning 67 pst. in relation to 34 p.m., which the Progress Party believes is sufficient for the State to own in StatoilHydro. In addition to the statutory protection, the answer is that it depends on who owns the remaining 66 pst. If these shares, or more than 50 pst. of the company's shares, are at the hands of another owner, this owner will direct the policy of dividends. Because of that, you can do a lot of wrong things with a company. You can, among other things: drain it for resources, not to say empty it. Nor did Solvik-Olsen understand why the state should have such large values located in StatoilHydro. Why not as much in this company as in other companies through the Pension Fund? The return is good, and the prospects for capital appreciation are at least as good as in other location options. Why should the State not choose this company for capital position when the shares are so coveted? That's the question that Solvik-Olsen should have asked himself, not the opposite. Or is it that the Progress Party imagines that those billions of sales would release will be used to finance the precious promises of the Advance Party? The representative Børge Burnde withdrew the lines to 1984 and the Statoil deal. Per-Kristian Foss said in a question to the Council of State that the government was then in dialogue with the largest opposition party, the Workers' Party. This is not a precise description of the background of the enquiry Gro Harlem Brundtland made to then Prime Minister Kåre Willoch. It was the Workers' Party that, in a letter to the government, took the initiative of a broad agreement on the role of Statoil in the development of Norwegian oil industry. It was done because the Willoch government was well-starting with Right's political goals, to wing clip Statoil. Through the initiative of the Workers' Party at the time, the Workers' Party supported the position of Right-wing Government Partners, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party to Statoil's important role in Norwegian oil policy. Together, we managed to stop Right ambitions about reducing Statoil's role and opportunities. I think everyone should be happy about that today. The joy is that today a unanimous increase supports the merger and sees the value and necessity of having a strong company to build on the impressive history of the development of Norwegian oil industry – which Statoil and Hydro have actually stood for. It is important to bring together the forces to meet the challenges of the future. I am also pleased that, both in the position and in the debate, the main focus has been on what the Storting should care about in connection with this merger, and not on the aspects of the new company that it is wisest that the company's governing bodies take care of themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1473	What made me speak in the debate now was the exchange of lines between the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen and the Minister of Industry for Venezuela. I now see that the Minister of Economic Affairs is not present in the Chamber – the Progress Party is too used to the fact that the Minister of Economic Affairs is not present – but it would have been nice if he could at least follow this debate. What is a little bit important for us to clarify is the fate of Statoil in Venezuela. We have no doubt that the investments made by Statoil have been in good faith and seem to be reasonable investments. That as the political rules of Venezuela change is what concerns the Advance Party. In the course of the debate, I expect the Government to clarify and provide information on what the Government has done to defend Norwegian interests in Venezuela. This applies not only to Statoil but also to how the Norwegian authorities of the Government act to defend Norwegian companies that are abroad. This applies, for example: within farming in Chile. Telenor has a great commitment in Russia, and then it might be interesting to get some consideration about that. It can also be noted that Statoil is considering investing in Iraq. It might be a risk sport with political uncertainty, and then it might be interesting to hear how the government intends to deal with it at political level. Then there's been a lot of talk about the active business policy. In this case, I believe that the only thing that has been activated is the machines in the Government Quartet regarding the Competition Authority's report. Overrun of the Competition Authority is nothing new from this government. It's actually more of a habit to do it. There are a number of examples in that way. You have Statkraft and Trondheim Energie, you have Gilde/Prior, etc. So there's obviously a red thread in what the government does in that way. But what might be new now is that you just don't inform Storting about the recordings that are coming, and I think that's a very unfortunate thing to say. In conclusion, I think it is sad that the majority, in other words the government parties, cannot agree to give any positive signals northward. It's probably in line with the Northern Territory Strategy of the Government. That is, it is completely absent.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1488	Norwegian oil policy has to a large extent been a consensus policy, in fact also with regard to the large partial privatisations that have taken place in large national companies. Therefore, it is sad that the Government will not engage in dialogue with Storting's opposition in this matter either. This was a golden opportunity to put realities behind the rhetoric of dialogue. At that time, there might be consensus solutions on compensatory measures, which would have had an impact on the gap now emerging in diversity and competition in the Norwegian sector, especially in the supply industry. Anyone who has been close to the Norwegian supplier industry knows that the large national oil companies are fear-provoking customers, but they have at least been two. The rapporteur of the case and the position stress the importance of the follow-up of the authorities and the continuing dialogue between the Department and the supplier industry. But some dialogue with the opposition to create more predictable conditions for the supplier industry keeps the position far away. There is therefore reason to put a major question mark on the authenticity of the position in relation to crocodile tears in the comments on the supplier industry. The passive attitude towards compensatory measures is one of the final proofs that active ownership policies are and remain unsubstantiated rhetoric and free of intention to content. Not only has the government abdicated in relation to being active as owner, but it has also made the Competition Authority a competition regulator by means of the nearest procuracies, as well as subsequent misinformation of the Storting. The Minister of Industry, we have heard here today, has praised the association with references to internationalisation, market shares and competitiveness – yes, it was like hearing any private capitalist owner say that there was more room in the market. But the Minister of Industry is not any private capitalist owner. He owns on behalf of the state. All the tens of thousands of employees around the supplier industry and in the hundreds of companies who have been waiting for the active business policy, and who have been waiting for the grips to be taken when the opportunity arose, I believe that after the Minister of Industry's speeches today, the final proof that active business policy was empty words in the election campaign, and that there are still empty words. The Minister of Economic Affairs will never be able to fill it with content, nor does it look like he will.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1504	The Minister of Economic Affairs had some comments about the relationship between the state's ownership role and the state's executive role that I found remarkable, because it seems that the Minister of Industry does not see any problem in the relationship between the two roles, but assumes that they go hand in hand almost per. definition. It's alarming. Because if the Minister of Industry does not see that there is a built-in structural tension, perhaps even a contradiction, between the two roles, when the State invests heavier and heavier in a dominant actor in an area where there are Norwegian authorities exercising control, one should, after all, be blind not to see that the more the State assumes its ownership role, the less will the ability to fill the role of authority in a credible way, simply because the interests of ownership will weigh much more than the interest in maintaining equal competition. That's what has obviously happened in this case, that the role of authority has become uninteresting, because the role of ownership is so interesting right now. Then there is another aspect that is even more serious, because when this company is going to grow, and when the country's dominant ownership role is also going to grow, it is in an international perspective. It is not primarily with regard to Norwegian waters. Then a new mix of roles occurs, which is much more dangerous. A few weeks ago, Iran’s foreign minister visited Norway. He came traveling hand in hand with the oil and energy minister and met his respective counterparts in the Norwegian government quarter. It tells me one thing: when the state increases its already dominant ownership role in relation to an international company that bears the name of the Norwegian state, Statoil, it has a long way to ‘outsourced’ Norwegian foreign policy through its ownership interests. The risk of future compromises with Norway’s foreign policy interests in favour of ownership interests is increasing dramatically. Already today, Statoil is identified, when the company operates in different parts of the world, with the Norwegian state, because not everyone knows the details of Norwegian stock law out there. What you're doing now is inviting the whole world to do just that misunderstanding – to draw a line between the Kingdom of Norway and the economic interests of the Kingdom of Norway in the oil market.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1511	I want to speak because of this competition policy, and this is a very important matter for the nation. Although one is from Hedmark, and perhaps not the most pronounced debater in the oil industry, I take the floor anyway. Ensuring competition and competition in all markets is one of the key factors in ensuring good resource management and efficient resource use in the future. In the same way as the representative, I note that the Government is moving over to managing the dominant operator rather than being the regulator and manager of the competitive conditions. It has been quite a long time since it was said in the United States that ‘what’s good for GM is good for the U.S.’. It has been left a long time ago, but I feel that we are perhaps going to go into some of the same problem. I see very clearly that there may be good arguments for StatoilHydro to work up international competitiveness, but I'm quite surprised that you don't problem it any more. It's clear that here we're going into regimes and parts of the world where both risk and many other elements should have been discussed quite thoroughly. Nationally, it is definitely a challenge because it is actually the whole oil environment that needs to develop international competitiveness. It includes the supplier industry, and it includes, as I said earlier, resource management. There, such a market concentration as StatoilHydro now gets with 80 pst. market share, become quite so scary. I took note that the representative Sørensen was not particularly impressed with the proposals requiring action by the opposition. I would just like to point out that they want to reduce the operatorship of the fields over time, to demand that the active numbers. the two companies must receive a larger allocation of exploration land. The strengthening of Petoro and the Oil Directorate requires that StatoilHydro contribute to the adequate ownership of the new operators by also transferring appropriate holdings in fields and licences within a specified time limit. The opposition also requires the Government to exercise its ownership to promote competition and diversity both in the Norwegian sector and in the Norwegian society as a whole. We demand that the Government ensure that in future concession awards, special attention should be paid in the case of equal qualifications to the dissemination of operator responsibilities. There are no small demands, and they are quite demanding to fill, but it is all the more important for the management of Norwegian oil wealth in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1526	I'll follow up a little bit where the previous speaker left off. The opposition proposals have been described by the position. Among other things, the representative Meltveit Kleppa said that they had to be seen as a demonstration proposal. I don't know if it's because of power arrogance from Meltveit Kleppa, or whether one is close when other parties have different opinions than the Center Party. Government and government parties should take this as a strong signal that the overall opposition believes that there is a lack of political intervention and that there is a great deal of concern about future value creation for the oil industry. The representative Sørensen, on the other hand, said that the proposals are relatively insignificant, and therefore she really does not care about them. It should be very easy for the government parties to support these proposals and to ensure that there is a complete and robust treatment and unanimous decision in this matter. We see that it doesn't happen. So I think it's the arrogance of power that strikes. Then there has been a lot of debate about ownership. There have been very few from the red-greens who have tried to say what they specifically want to do to increase ownership to 67 pst., and how it will add signals, resources and competences to the company that no other owner could do. The representative, Kristoffersen, said that it was important to increase ownership in order to ensure that Statoil and Hydro operated environmentally friendly. What does it say about the belief in the authorities that legislate and follow up on the law? Is it not the case that it is expected that all oil companies, irrespective of the State's ownership, actually comply with the laws and regulations adopted. If one is not satisfied with the environmental friendliness of StatoilHydro, should one not have raised the general environmental requirements for all companies? The representative Pedersen said that state ownership is an instrument of increased competition. Yeah, how? What will the Government impose on StatoilHydro in terms of competition, by owning 67 pst., which they could not do as much as today's ownership, or by 51 pst., or for that matter by 34 pst. ? The representative Svein Roald Hansen mentioned the protection of the statutes as important for owning 67 pst. Yes, one-third of the articles of association are maintained. As the Progress Party says, the only thing you can achieve by owning 67 pst. is that you can overrun the other owners when you have to make changes to the statutes. What respect does this show for other owners of StatoilHydro? The only economic gain of increasing ownership is that you get an increased share of the dividends that come anyway. The possible loss of this merger will be reduced value creation on the entire base. It'll get the state 100 pst. the effect on. It's probably much bigger than the small profit you can get from increasing profits by getting StatoilHydro involved in the rest of the world to a greater extent than today. It should be a greater concern for the red-green government and the red-green parties, especially then for the red-green parties who were at the hearing of the Energy and Environment Committee and were told what Professor and researcher Osmundsen said on this very topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1543	I am not going to extend this debate, but the representative Aspaker is, as usual, strong in his statements – as well as from the Stortinge pulpit today. When we see her statement on this matter in the press and in the many essays in the Harstad magazine, one would expect something more from the Right and from her side of the handcuffs. I notice that a joint committee, including the Right, says that they register that the merged company prioritises the northern areas high. At the same time, the representative Aspaker is very disappointed, and the representative has also expressed it in many issues of the Harstad Official Journal in recent times. She's disappointed in the lack of bet. What is the Right View actually in this context? Are you disappointed, or are you satisfied, as it says in a joint committee statement? Neither do I think that the Right and the Aspaker have anything to do with the establishment of a department of Petroleum Control in Harstad. I look at the attitude that the opposition will again investigate a branch office of the Petroleum Control in Harstad, and that is added ‘or otherwise’. It might be interesting to know what this 'other way' means. I wonder why the Right wasn't as active in that matter while they were in the government offices, but it became immediately after they had left the government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1552	There are many paradoxes in this matter. One of them is that there has been a lot of talk about the merger of the two companies, the merger between Statoil and Hydro, but there has been little talk about the competition conditions on the base. All the time it is known that most of the revenue of the state from the petroleum activity in Norway is not derived from the yields of Hydro and Statoil, but from taxes and taxes and rents, this is a paradox. It's also a paradox – well, not a paradox, but not surprising at all – that the Workers' Party has tried to put all the emphasis on getting the focus off this particular relationship and will only talk about the merger between Hydro and Statoil, because the Government delivers nothing in relation to these things. For me, there is reason to point out that the story of Statoil and Hydro is a success story. The history of Hydro, Statoil and Saga is a success story. Storing and government supported the establishment of the companies and facilitated the growth of all three companies. Competition on the base was the goal. One actor would not become too dominant. This meant the Workers' Party in the old days, while now the representative Torny Pedersen from the Workers' Party says that a large player promotes competition. It promotes competition in the management of natural resources oil and gas in Norway. Then we come to paradox number three or four – that's what the record will show. Just a week ago, we decided that in the case of the other large natural resource harvested along the coast of Norway, namely fish, an operator should be allowed to own only 25 pst. In Norwegian breeding, an operator shall only own 25 pst. In the case of oil and gas, an operator shall be able to own 80 pst. I hope someone can explain why that makes sense. So we all agree that the merger is good because of international competition. It's useful for Hydro and Statoil to merge. Hopefully – what I think we all agree on – is useful for Norwegian government finances. Today's big negotiations began with the Minister of Development being here. In view of what he talked about, I hope we agree that StatoilHydro as an actor abroad must also be useful for the host country. If they're not useful for the host country, maybe we should consider whether we should be involved. Then we have to ask ourselves: if we assume that StatoilHydro is an actor abroad, is it not useful that foreign players are given the opportunity to grow in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1565	It is an important matter that we are debating today because it is important players who are going to merge. These companies also have an important role to play in achieving the objectives of a large majority of political life. Last week we had an exciting debate in this room on senior policy, it is desirable that we have a senior policy that enables people to stand longer in work, and then there are unfortunate signals the newly merged company adds, where we see one going in the opposite direction. The company's use of final packages for older workers is quite old-fashioned staff policy. I expect the state to criticise such a senior policy at the general meeting of the company, because this personnel policy violates the majority – and indeed a total increase – of its desire in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1572	I took the floor because I received a direct referral from two right-wing representatives. First, to the representative, the salary that must have misunderstood my line somewhat seriously, because I just underlined the need to distinguish between the role of the owner and the role of the authority. So it wasn't the other way around that the post from the payroll could give the impression. It's hard to see why it should have 67 pst. in an important oil, gas and energy company, there should be some major problem, for example: So, in relation to external policy independence, when we own 70,9 p.m. until today. of the largest oil and gas company in Norway. It makes me turn to the Secretary-General of the Fleet's contributions on industrial policy in general linked to the active ownership. When it is claimed that nothing has happened, I wonder: Where in the world was the representative fleet when business neutrality was replaced with a targeted industrial policy, which is followed up by shipping policy both with net wage schemes, increased appropriations for research on environmentally friendly shipping, new actions in both research funds and innovation Norway? Or – when we do the same in the marine sector, set up fresh fish strategies, stop illegal fishing? Or – when we are betting on the energy sector on a far wider front than the previous government was able to, both in terms of the feed-in system, the investment in Enova, etc.? Or – are we spending billions in the environmental sector on developing clean technologies in Mongstad? Or – do we reach in the tourism sector, because we are focused, have the appropriations from the previous government doubled? Or – in the case of other parts of the active business policy, where we could say yesterday that we have finally established a trade agreement with Canada, which has been in the dead water as long as the previous government was in place, which is also good for Norwegian business? It's our third largest trading partner if we count the EU as a unit. Or – when we present a serving law to build up in the serious business world? Or – when, through ownership policy, both in relation to the Great Norwegian Spitsbergen Kullkompani are now being revised, or formerly NAMMO, or Bane Tele, showing active ownership, or when we are increasing the GIEK framework? Before the Right-wing Representatives can ask questions from Stortinget, the matter is settled. We have provided much clearer signals to our owners, because we want to be tidy owners through a professional ownership policy, which is going to be underlined when I am going to present on the stock exchange the first ownership document on 13 June. Or where was he when we now make sure to get a new equity instrument for businesses in the growth phase? I wonder: Where in the world was Svein Fletten when all this happened, when he has not realised that there is a new industrial policy, a new active industrial policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1585	There are two issues that are often mentioned in this debate. One is the report of the Competition Authority. However, the content of the report is not mentioned, nor has anyone expressed any concern about anything other than the proposition regarding the Competition Authority’s report. That's the one. The second concerns the holding – whether it should be 67 pst, less than 67 pst, or whether it should be 34 pst. I think it is quite essential in relation to such an important company that manages the natural resources, not only on behalf of the company, but also on behalf of the Norwegian State, that an effective statutory audit is carried out, because it is such that the company will manage the provision of its petroleum. In addition, concerns have been expressed by Bent Höie regarding the conversion of the registered office into the head office. Among other things, he prays: The government will make sure the head office stays in Stavanger. The second relationship expressed by Gunnar Kvassheim's representative is that the company should be an energy company. I expect Gunnar Kvassheim to add that the company will invest in new renewable energy, CO2 management, etc. It is not entirely irrelevant, then, to have statutory control in the company if one wishes to achieve what the concern is expressed, in the utmost consequence, in terms of what has been said by this pulpit of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1597	I want to start by thanking the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen for marketing in a good way all the good statements that the Right has received in the local press in relation to the StatoilHydro case. I was also quite prepared that the representative would try a new defense speech, because his own government would not take Harstad in its mouth in the really crucial moment. It's simply remarkable that in the 1970s, when we knew very little about what kind of resources existed in the north, the Storting was willing to point to Harstad. In today’s situation – with knowledge that as much as 25 pst. of the world's petroleum reserves are likely to be in the northern regions – so the red-green majority chooses to block a clear signal from the Storting that Harstad is to be the centre of a petroleum industry on the northern marshes. We are witnessing a very sad shift in the line of the Workers' Party's petroleum policy. Right-wing dissents in what is suggested in posts by representatives of the government parties, that it should be to interfere with the company's internal affairs when it is pointed out that the northern part of the country should also have an environment of competence to further develop that industry from a north-norwegian point of view. With inside of 70 pst. ownership and the oil and gas industry identified as a driving force for the realisation of the visions of the Northern Region Strategy, it would be perfectly legitimate that this house also had a clear view of the matter and pointed out some instruments, and the Stanoil competence environment in Harstad is such an instrument. I have great ambitions on behalf of North Norway. It must be raised beyond any doubt that the national community has competent professional environments and candidates when it comes to the time when it is to be put together governing bodies in the company. I hope the Government helps you to reflect the competence that is in the continent when you get to that time. I think it would be valuable for the company to actively attract exchanges on the key competences that exist in the north around the north, in order to best achieve the cross-political objective of increasing activity in the north to produce increased ring-effects in the north. The right has used all possible opportunities to propose how we should achieve increased ring-effects, while the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen and the Workers' Party have used the same opportunities to vote down the good proposals of the Right every time, including the proposal to consider a department of Petroleum Control in the North. So I have expectations for the company, but we also have expectations from the right that the state will be investing more in the Oil Directorate and also bet on the Petroleum Authority's presence in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1610	There may be much more that could be said about both the process, the decision to be made today and the future. Let me just take a few final points. First of all, the signals that the company gives to its senors are eye-catching. They strongly contradict today's official government policy. This is probably also something that state councils who are in contact with different state corporations have to label and follow up. Secondly, what has been said about Stavanger as a European oil capital. There are two important aspects. Now the group functions are distributed. The government in its contact with board members and companies must take care of both the fact that there is no quiet and careful snitching to Oslo of additional functions, and that there is a distribution of ringings northward along the coast. The last citizen to pay for the Northern Territory bet of Regeninga. Then there have been questions here to me and to the Center Party about power arrogance, dialogue and hairstyle when it comes to proposals that are being made in the Chamber. My line is probably more dialogue than hairstyle and arrogance of power, but I'm surprised at some of these proposals – I stand by it – because the proposition also states that the Government is busy with the competition situation on a Norwegian base, that it is busy strengthening supervision, and that one comes back to this in budgetary context. So it will be handed over for many years to secure the development and management of resources on Norwegian pedestal in the best way possible. That's where the main bet is, even if one here is also looking internationally. I think it's funny what we've seen today of commitment and unrest both from the ones we can say are in position, and those who are in opposition, that's the meaning of having a watchful eye on this merger in the future. It's a historic day. I am confident that this government will follow this closely up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1623	I will carefully record the Minister of Industry's very commendable self-certification of the active industrial policy. You should listen carefully, as you know, because it comes from the heart. Let me just point out in general that in terms of this government's use of just the instrument of self-responsiveness, I think it would be wise if it occasionally passed the brain on its way from the heart to the mouth. It couldn't hurt! As for the Minister of Industry's attempt to clarify the relationship between roles, I have to say that I'm just as wise or maybe even a little less wise. I realized that the Minister of Industry said he wanted to separate the two roles. But that's exactly where the problem lies. I have to be allowed to use a picture: it's not that easy when you run into the football field with the attack spike suit on and get engaged too fully in the game, at the same time playing the role of judge and blow in the flute. But that's exactly what the double is about, because the roles have to be played simultaneously, and they have to be far on the road by the same actors. In that case, it is not so difficult to understand that in dealing with this matter with the Norwegian perspective, only the interests have been involved. For this reason you have e.g. administered by the supervisory body established by the State itself, effectively beyond the margin, because the other role did not fit at the moment. So to the international perspective. The Council of State cannot fail to see that when a main motive is to make the company significantly larger than before, and a significantly more powerful player internationally, the ownership role of the Norwegian State will be noticed even more. When you deliberately step up ownership just to make it clear that it is the Norwegian State that is the dominant player, you reinforce the problem that has been there for many years, namely that Norwegian foreign policy is suspected both at home and abroad of being influenced – consciously, semi-consciously, unconsciously – by the commercial considerations of the state that owns. We're going to experience even more often in the future that questions are asked about whether the state is going on rubber soles in relation to certain regimes, because the economic interests outweigh the interest in the principles that we otherwise profess.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1633	It has been a strength for our country that we have been able to find common solutions in many of the major and very important issues. After the war, we agreed on the main lines of the country's security policy. At the latest this spring, we agreed on a pension settlement to ensure predictability for future and current pensioners. We also hope for a climate settlement when Stortinget gets the climate announcement from the Government. Perhaps the best example in areas where we have succeeded in getting broad solutions in Stortinget has been in the field of oil and gas policy. It was a long-standing agreement that we had to have three Norwegian oil companies competing with each other, Saga, Hydro and Statoil. Then there were two companies, because Saga was incorporated into Hydro, and now we have one company that will get more than 80 pst. by the operator’s responsibility on Norwegian pedestal – and we hear very few concerns from the red-green in Stortinget. Of course, it's been a point that securing competition on the pedestal, not least so that the Norwegian State will get the most tax revenue back for that exposure. Competition gives it to us, and competition also benefits suppliers. So I had hoped that this time we too could get a pass on for the necessary compensatory measures, but we have not. Otherwise, there has also been some confusion about what to use the increased state ownership of StatoilHydro for. Representatives have been present here and said that this should be done, among other things. use to impose stricter environmental requirements on the company and to be good in the environment. But then I think this is, like some misunderstandings in the government, a symptom that you haven't quite understood what the role of the owner is and what the role of the government is. We have the world's most stringent environmental requirements for the oil and gas industry in Norway, but this has been imposed by the State pollution authorities. The authorities may then decide whether the company is State owned or not. It is the task of the State to ensure that there is competition in the market, but in that area Stortinget did not even know that the Competition Authority had views. The council has chosen not to repeat what he said in Stortingen's spontaneous question time, that it was regrettable that you did not get that information from Stortinget. I wish the Council of State had done this today, so that you could have also looked at the proposal that is there. But, of course, you don't have to do that either when you're in majority rule. Otherwise I noticed the Prime Minister's election here. I have understood that we are now pursuing an active industrial policy in the country. The Minister of Industry can prove this by presenting a food law today. The active food policy boiled down to a food law. That's interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1646	I could understand from the Minister of Industry's comments that it touched on strings in his memory around this with active industrial policy that he did not like. The reflection is, as always, two answers from the Minister of Industry. One is nutrition neutrality, for which he accuses the Right – a term introduced by Jens Stoltenberg in this room, as far as I remember – and the other he seeks refuge is the subsidies to the ferry companies. In addition to this, the Council of State has continuously given some attention to all the issues that lie on his table of small and large, and we expect that there will be a lot after two years of high pressure in Norwegian business – a high pressure created by the previous government through a policy that brought interest down, not least in relation to the growth-enhancing tax reliefs that were granted. I got no answer from the Minister of Industry about the active state ownership, which I requested in my post. I want to give advice to the Minister of Industry, because this is something I think is expected from a supplier industry of small and large enterprises. I saw in a local newspaper in Larvik that the Minister of Industry a few days ago laid the foundation for Color Lines' new ferry dock in Larvik. I recommend that the Council of State lay the foundation for active industrial policy. A lot of people are waiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1655	I'm going to try to answer some of the things that have been addressed in the course of the debate. Tord Lien asked the question: Isn't it natural for foreign companies to grow in Norway when we expect StatoilHydro to grow out? Yes, foreign companies are welcome on a Norwegian base. They have been from the very beginning of the Norwegian oil age, and they will also be in the future. But as I said in my main post, we are obliged to comply with the EU concession directive when granting extraction permits. The award shall be made in accordance with the principle of non-discrimination. This means that the Ministry of Oil and Energy cannot fail to award shares in the extraction permits to StatoilHydro on the grounds that the company is large or has a strong position on Norwegian pedestal. That said, however, it is as I also said in my main post, that the four greatest findings that are now planned to be developed are to be operated by companies other than Statoil and Hydro. In addition, during the 2006 TFO, Statoil and Hydro were allocated only 18 pst in the last round of allocation. by the operators. For the whole of 73 p.m. of the extraction permits, neither Statoil nor Hydro participated. What does this show? Well, it shows that we are moving towards a development in which the new companies and other companies on the pedestal in the future get a greater share of the activity. This has happened not least because of the policies of the previous government, where new companies were opened on a Norwegian base, which means that today we have almost 50 companies that are prequalified for participation on a Norwegian base. Elisabeth Aspaker is disappointed with activity in the north. Through the management plan, the government has established a predictable framework for activity in the north. We've opened up large, new areas. There have been new findings. We have launched both geological and environmental studies in new areas that have not been surveyed for 10 years, in order to carry out an evaluation of the management plan in 2010. Let there be no doubt that the Government's will to bet in the north is absolutely present. It also means activity in Harstad, which has been – and will be – the capital of North Norway. Then several have claimed that the Government has shackled the Competition Authority, and that the Competition Authority has not played the role they should. That's wrong. It has also repeatedly underlined the Minister of Renewal. The Competition Authority has been asked to make its views known on the merger in an ordinary way. They do not address the question that we have raised earlier in the debate. However, according to the EEA Agreement, Norway is subject to EU/EEA competition rules. Therefore, the EU competition authorities are appropriate. Competition supervision is an underlying body of the Ministry of Renewal and thus a level of administration of the Ministry of Renewal and has regularly addressed competition issues. I see that time is up. Then I might as well draw myself a new three-minute article.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1672	State councillor Andersen said that Inge Wohnning had not followed in the debate. I feel that the wages answered that well. Then Terje Aasland came up to the pulpit. Then I think I have to say that Terje Aasland could not have attended the debate to any particular extent. He still believes – and so does all the Labour Party representatives in the debate, paradoxically – that this debate is about a report that no one has seen before, and whether we should own 62 pst. or 67 pst. of Statoil. But that is not what this debate should have been about. If that's how it actually did it, it's a shame. This debate should have been about how Stortinget, the legislative and admissibility body in that country, can ensure that the conditions of competition for the value creation of the Norwegian base are as good after the Hydro-Statoil merger as it was before. In the past, it has been an objective to have strong and large actors in the Norwegian oil sector. It is true that the representatives of the Labour Party today are not so important. I recall that in 2006, the petroleum tax amounted to NOK 184 billion. Statoil's dividend was NOK 12 billion. Of course, this is a significant amount, but not much in relation to the petroleum tax – during a tenth of the petroleum tax. So it's a little sweet when everyone's talking about Stavanger. It almost sounds as if we can decide, or not adopt, that Stavanger is Europe's oil capital. When oil developments began in Norway, visionary politicians in the Rogaland area and the Stortinget made Stavanger Europe's oil capital. It is today. The simplest and most important step the Stortinget can take to ensure that Stavanger will continue to be Europe’s and one of the world’s leading oil capitals in the future is to ensure increased activity on Norwegian soil, which will result in increased competition and more actors on the road. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa was concerned that the opposition is almost unprofessional, and that the proposals we are promoting should not have been promoted, because they are demonstration proposals. So she says that the government is busy stimulating competition, and that it's in the proposition. It is quite obvious that there are several places in the proposition that the Government is committed to stimulating competition. But the government is busy with a lot of strange things. They are concerned with green certificates, industrial power regimes, they are to combat poverty, and they are to provide a shining care for the elderly. All of this they're busy, but they don't deliver results. Therefore, I would have been much safer and would have slept much better tonight if the Stortinget had been allowed to make any decisions that ensured competition and value creation on the Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1683	I would like to make a few comments on some of the issues that have emerged in the debate, which I have to say makes me a bit worried. This applies primarily to the views of representatives of the government parties on the minorities of such a company. Whatever the outcome of the proposals that are on the table, what we know is that the state itself is 67 pst. ownership shall have private owners who are confident that the State is acting orderly and solely for the purposes of the company’s own best interests. Opinions have been received today, for example: from Svein Roald Hansen, who suggested that if you didn't own 67 p.m., the owners could go to waste the company for resources. Terje Aasland's view is that so much ownership is needed to ensure that it becomes an energy company or that it gets CO2 management. And Asmund Kristoffersen says that it was necessary to implement environmental standards. This is, at my discretion, a hopeless view of minority owners and all owners' responsibility for putting the company's best interests first. It creates a political uncertainty, created by the majority of governments in this Chamber in this debate, which I must say is very worrying. Now I know that the department holds its tongue more straight in its mouth than the statements from the government's foundation here in the Stortinge suggest that they do, but nevertheless it sends dangerous signals to minority owners. To the extent that you can say that you can send stock exchanges from this room, I think it is important to ask all the minorities to filter out all these attempts to attach this new ownership to political motives and intentions with their ownership. The other thing that is regrettable is that today we are going to leave this room with a less broad basis for both oil policy and base for this company than what should be necessary. Unfortunately, it also creates an unnecessary uncertainty for the future. Finally, after having had this – we shall say – the parallel, but nevertheless not unimportant course related to the reality of the matter around the Council of State that has not provided the necessary information to the Stortinget and has granted it, we are leaving this hall today with a weakened Council of State, weakened in dealing with this big field. The council said earlier in Stortinget in a spontaneous questioning time that he unfortunately was injured not to give the Storting this necessary information. I think the Council of State should repeat it today. I think it would strengthen and not weaken the Council of State, because the Council of State in any case needs to repair its relationship with the Storting after this day.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1699	In fact, I have problems understanding those who say that the broad agreement in the petroleum policy is broken by the decision that the Storting is making today. In fact, there is a unanimous collapse that joins the merger between Statoil and Hydro’s oil and gas activities. Then there are a number of proposals from the opposition in addition to the decision to be made, but in the case of a couple of these proposals, the government parties directly disagree. If we were to order StatoilHydro to sell in shares so that it would affect the balance of the Norwegian base in the short term, we would have to sell ourselves in fields of significant size. Some of these are given on page 44 of the proposal, left column: transfer of fields such as: Veslefrik, Brage and Heidrun to other operators will only reduce the company's production today, from 80 p.m. to 76 pst. So it's a relatively modest reduction of significant fields, which nevertheless will have so little significance. Transfer of carriership is a complex matter, as explained quite thoroughly in the proposition. In the case of other proposals, I have to say that there can be scope for cooperation, and not least you can come back to some of the things that the opposition has addressed, among other things. at a later date come back with a case concerning the conduct of the merger. Spring 2008 may be a little early, but let's discuss it. I am confident that the Stortinge will consider the operation of the merger in a sensible way. The staging will be presented with a major communication on petroleum policy. I will also present a case on the evaluation of the situation in the supplier industry. It's one of the themes that I've addressed before. But when the position, the majority, does not vote for this, it blends into a good tradition where the majority of the population has no need to instruct the government. With this, I would like to make it possible to meet the opposition and the position. Then it is a unanimous increase – that is, all parties – that underlines the need for diversity and competition. There's nothing special for either the majority or the minority in this room. All lots also underline the importance of high value creation on the base. So it's not like we've broken the line that you've been following for years. The majority agrees to give a broad agreement to the merger between these two companies. That's the most important question we're dealing with today. A number of the other proposals we will have the opportunity to come back to in future cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1712	There's a big one today because we finally got something we've all been waiting for: we've got a new serving law, and the government's really speeded up the active business policy. I must say that law I have waited for as long as I have waited for waiters occasionally. I guess it's just to say that the toolbox it's been talking about in the past is gone, and the jewelry box for the former State Council Odd Eriksen is gone, but now finally the serving board has come. It'll be nice to get a new concept to deal with. Otherwise, in the case of active industrial policy, I record that it has been totally absent in a number of other cases, the last concerning Hydro Polymer, which was sold out without intervention by the Council of State. It is possible that he sat at a restaurant and hatched the new food law, just as Stoltenberg put on Bali and hatched the climate policy. In my previous post, I presented a challenge to the state councils to learn a little more about the situation in Venezuela, not in the form of the investments Statoil has made there, but simply how the Norwegian interests in Venezuela have been managed by the Government. So Venezuela has changed the rules of the game. Great values are at stake for Statoil, and also for the Norwegian government and the Norwegian people. I think it's kind of arrogant that you don't come up and comment on the direct challenges you get in this room. Now, I think you can expect a certain arrogance from this government in the future, but I think it's unfortunate that you, on the part of the Government, ignore the challenges you're facing, and rather almost drive election propaganda from this pulpit. So I want to challenge both state councils again to come up and tell you how the government has handled the situation that is in Venezuela. It is probably also interesting for the rest of the business to know how the government handles unforeseen things that happen in other countries, and where there is great political uncertainty. I think that's a requirement that should be reasonable, so I expect the councils to come up and comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1723	Mr. Brende has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1726	I noticed that the Council of State, Mr Enoksen, concluded that the opposition had a number of constructive proposals – with two exceptions – that one would look at more closely by the Government. Interestingly, earlier in the debate, the Central Party parliamentary leader claimed that these opposition proposals were purely demonstration proposals, and that Tore Nordtun believed that short-term populism was among others. in the proposal relating to Petoro. The fact that the Council of State has now come to realize that these are constructive proposals is of course all right, but it would have been an idea if he had come up with it before. Now I see that the Council of State is asking for the word, and that's okay – he's probably got the impression that this is the last post I can keep in the Chamber today. But I would also say that it would have dressed the council if he could have at least stretched so far, when he has not informed the Storting properly, that he repeated his regret at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1733	The Council of State – the Minister of Oil and Energy – did not understand that the broad agreement in the petroleum policy was broken in this case, because everyone supported the merger. Yes, everyone supports the merger, but what the opposition has been trying to focus on all day is that the petroleum policy has not been amended accordingly. The fact that we have had differences in petroleum policy in 2002, 2004 and 2005 – and also in the management plan, if one says it was a kerosene message – was based on completely different premises as to how competition and diversity on the base are. Now we've gone from having two big companies that have taken the petroleum policy into account, to having one big company. So you get a completely different situation, and then you ask, what kind of leaders is the government going to have? What kind of concrete action will there be? What kind of strengthening will be provided by the Oil Directorate and Petroleum Control, among others, to ensure that the new situation is taken care of? There, the Government has done nothing but say yes, they will assess the situation continuously, one will have ongoing dialogue. But one has also promised quite a long time now that there would be an industrial power regime quite soon. And one promised that the time would come to focus on renewable energy. For the energy and environmental committee, so many promises have been broken that it is not only useful to say that one should follow the situation in the petroleum industry very closely, and thus the Committee should, as well, settle that, ok, this matter is also resolved. Experience shows that the cases are not resolved simply by the Government ‘following the case closely’. So the policy taken by the Stortinget in the past, on compromise, is not adequate for the current situation. Therefore, the Council of State should understand that it is not enough for the Stortinget to support the merger – because we have faith in it – for StatoilHydro. However, we lack faith that the Government will follow up on policies, that is oil policy, which ensure value creation, diversity, research, employment, the supply industry and – almost – the management stages of this matter. It's not enough to say that Petoro will be allowed to hire anyone more. When the income of society from the petroleum industry, i.e. the income of the state, is over DKK 300 billion, and an increase in the ownership share of StatoilHydro with today's dividends would like to increase half a billion dollars a year, the half a billion is not particularly large compared to over DKK 300 billion for total activity. That's why it's important that there's a policy here that should be settled, and not just boasted that one should spend 25-30 billion kroner on buying up in ownership, and that one is very happy with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1750	It's probably toward the end of the debate in this matter, but at least at one point some of us feel that there's still an insecurity in the air. If we go back to Storting's treatment of Storting's control function, which was the recording of the Constitutional Bill on the obligation to provide information, it is said very clearly in the comment, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Committee would argue that the government must be obliged to make serious professional counter-representations appear in the case even if they are contrary to the Government’s proposal.’ And that's what part of this case is about: serious counter-representations that haven't been announced to the Stortinget. Now the state council has said several times today that he means the same thing as he meant in spontaneous questioning on 30 May this year. He has also said that he would like to see that the letter had been answered in another way, and he says that it was not treated as it should have been on his part. But if we go back to May 30, there's two statements I'd like to be allowed to refer. First, the Council of State said: ‘Unfortunately, my answer to that point was unpresist.’ Erna Solberg had his challenge, where she said: ‘I think the Council of State should regret this from this pulpit.’ On the Black Councils: ‘No, I don’t see any reason for that.’ On the basis of this, it would have been possible for the Council of State to clear aside the uncertainty that is still present at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1777	Let me just briefly stress that the competitive conditions on the Norwegian base, not least for the supplier industry, and a number of these issues have been addressed and discussed in detail in the proposal. I have to tell Ketil Solvik-Olsen that there is a change going on. There are very many new companies that have entered the Norwegian base and that have the opportunity to participate in the Norwegian base. There is a greater interest from the international companies than it has been in a relatively long time, to participate now and have activity on Norwegian pedestal. It is positive, and there is a development I hope to continue, and for which the Government will facilitate, in order to have maximum value creation and also to contribute to the creation of competition on a Norwegian base. The opposition's proposal implies that StatoilHydro's holdings should be reduced and that the new company should be taken into account. That is what the Government and the majority consider not to be an appropriate and targeted policy to meet the challenge on Norwegian soil. This does not mean, of course, that the Government will not both follow up, take other measures and also take compensatory measures over time if competition would be weakened as a result of our becoming a single company. So it's neither necessary nor the time to do it today. What we are considering today is merger. I recognise that the two proposals put forward by the opposition to reduce ownership interests and to remove operatorship are relevant in this context. But the majority disagree. Then I have to say that I have made an attempt to meet a number of the proposals made by the opposition. I had not so far thought that it would be misunderstood in any way. It is simply an outstretched hand to facilitate cooperation on these issues too, where we have the opportunity to pursue jointly the policies of a broad majority in the United Kingdom for many years and which have created the success of the Norwegian petroleum industry today – not only the oil company but also the supplier industry. And so briefly to Øyvind Korsberg – in order to answer that this time: Well, that's of course the way both Øyvind Korsberg and Inge Wohnning have been in, that greater activity outside and great state ownership in a company does things complicated when you're going into areas where you have regimes that we don't always like to relate to. There is some risk when we also know that resources are collected in many of these countries. But that is also something that we must therefore be aware of, and that we must take care of with care both as authorities and as owners, and that companies also have a special responsibility to deal with in the best possible way. What I spend the most time promoting on my many trips is not actually the oil companies, but it's the supplier industry, which is gradually playing a very big role out there. And also to Øyvind Korsberg: Venezuela is unfortunately not the simplest country at the moment to try to influence developments in. We also see that through what oil companies are now exposed to, not only the Norwegians, but also many other oil companies. But also to Venezuela, we work as long-term authorities to try to contribute to better development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1792	It is quite interesting to follow the approach of the Minister of Industry to a diversion in this important debate, by including the concept of ‘active enterprise policy’. I think in particular that one of LO's foremost men, Leif Sande, has described the government's industrial policy in an excellent way, or, in fact, in stronger words than what I would have chosen, when he said that the government has six in rhetoric, but zero in content. I think it was relatively strong, I would at least give it a two. Otherwise, I also register that Enoch says that the competitive aspects of the merger have been assessed. Appraised by who? Who has assessed the competitive situation and concluded that there is no need for compensatory measures? Yes, it is obvious that the government has assessed, and it is the government that has concluded, but you were not willing to listen to the competition authorities. The Enoch said that the Competition Authority had not been manipulated. But that's not true. It was not chosen to send the letter that the Competition Authority had even prepared in English, to the Commission. The choice could have been made to facilitate a national assessment of the competitive conditions of the socket through the Competition Authority. You didn't choose to do that. And of course you should have informed the Storting in the usual way. They chose not to do that either. A majority government may choose to act so arrogantly towards the Storting, but wisely it is not. I might say that a majority government should be extra careful about acting so arrogantly towards Stortinget as what you have chosen in this matter. Instead of going up to the pulpit and complaining, as Enoxen would have done if he had been in a minority government, he chose to humiliate the entire government. What Enoch does with his actions is to humiliate the entire government because it is made clear to Stortinget that the type of work that Enoxsen has chosen in this matter is a form of work that the government feels comfortable with. So I think that both the Enoch and the Government would have insisted that they complain to Stortinget that they had not been properly informed, and then we could discuss what this matter really applies, namely how to secure the value creation on the base and the well-being of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1803	Øyvind Korsberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1806	I want to thank the State Council for taking 20 seconds to give me an answer about Venezuela. But it really wasn't an answer, because what I asked questions about was, in fact, what has the government done? What has happened in Venezuela has not happened overnight, since it has been notified for a long time. I fully agree that this is not easy with Venezuela. But the government said that they had worked “long-term”, and then I would like to know what is in the long-term job that has been done, and what has been done in terms of the question of Venezuela. Or is it that you have to go through the mailing lists in the department to find out what has been done or not done? Or is it that you don't answer that kind of questions in the main hall? I hope that the media will be able to ask the same questions, because when it comes to getting up to date with what is happening within the Ministry of the Council of State of Enoksen, you have to keep up to date both in today's business and in other media. So I would encourage the Council of State to come up and be much more specific about what the Government has done to defend Norwegian interests in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1813	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The President will then propose that we call voting to decide whether we should proceed with the proceedings of the Financial Committee after consideration of case No. 3, from the Energy and Environment Committee, or whether we should postpone – that is possible – the matters of the Financial Committee until Tuesday. [[See page 3425]] – No objections have been raised, and voting will be called. After it had been called to vote, said
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1825	The President has called to decide whether we should continue to deal with the remaining issues, i.e.: the cases in which there is an attitude on the part of the financial committee or whether we are going to postpone their examination. It is then time to treat them on Tuesday. It'll take at least two hours to deal with these issues, so it's possible to do it another day. The president's proposal is that we do the last thing, that we postpone the matter. 4, 5, 6 and 7 and treat them on Tuesday, but that we deal with case no. 3, which won't take very long. It's up to the Storting to decide what to do, but it's the president's proposal. Does anyone want the word? – Can the President then assume that the Storting wishes to postpone the matter no. 4, 5, 6 and 7, and finalise case No. 3 now? – It shall be deemed to have been adopted unanimously. It doesn't take very long to debate case no. 3, and there's going to be voting in case No. 1-3 immediately after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1849	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1858	I refer you to Document No. 8:72 and the proposal put forward by the proposers, where they ask the Government to re-examine the adopted protection of the river Åbodal in Saudi. I would also like to refer to a letter from the Ministry of Oil and Energy dated 21 May 2007 and to highlight the following: During the concession treatment of the Sauda extension in 2003, several watercourses took place, among others. The Ombudsman Watercourse, taken out of the project under consideration, including: due to the cultural landscape of the area and the environmental quality of the watercourse. In connection with the supplementation of the protection plan, the watercourse was not subject to consultation, but I would add that the watercourse was, however, extensively reviewed and investigated at the front of the protection issue. In addition, the case has been subject to several subsequent assessments. On this basis, the majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Advance Party, does not find the basis for doubt as to the adoption of the previous decision and therefore sees no basis for re-examination. The Committee's position is therefore that the proposal is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1871	This case is not about being in favour of or against the protection of the Turkutal watercourse in Saudi. On the other hand, it is about how the central authorities treat local communities and about the democratic rules of the game. The public watercourse was protected during the work on supplementing the protection plan, as the case-law rapporteur had stated. What is special is that a non-executed ordinary procedure. It admits the councils in the letter to the committee, where he writes that there was no thorough examination. The impact was not sufficiently established and interested parties were not heard in advance of the protection. Several of these still express frustration that no one would have listened to their description of reality. So they feel really outrun by the big community. Although the purpose of protection may have been good, it is not to treat local communities — large or small. The matter is particularly topical since the watercourse is well suited for small-scale power projects. One knows how the power balance is in many parts of the country. The Sauda area is not very well placed in sight when a take with the Haugaland area. The majority of the Stortinget was, in fact, opposed to the protection, at least if we were to believe what they said in the media, both from the Workers' Party and the Center Party. The Labour Party Rolf Terje Klungland, who was then on the Energy and Environment Committee, even said at Stortinget: ‘We note that the government parties’ – as was then the Bondevik II parties – ‘will not carry out an ordinary treatment of the watercourses Vaulo m/Langfossen and Saltåna as well as the Åbodal watercourse before a protective decision is taken, but we take note of this. However, we need to point out that this is wrong, and that some parties in this context must have conscientious qualms in relation to the principle of local democracy and local participation.» This with conscientious qualms must also apply to both the Central Party and the Workers' Party, which thus voted for this protection, despite the fact that they saw that the process here was completely galimatia. Now the Center Party and the Workers' Party have the chance to ease their bad conscience and get rid of the problem. Then it is very sad to note that the Workers' Party and the Centre here just put the matter in a drawer, forgets old sins and goes on in the hope that people won't remember it. But people remember such things, because they believe – at least they are proud of it so far – that when the Stortinge adopts democratic rules, they must also be followed. It is very sad to record that it does not happen in this case. I would therefore like to refer to the motion by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1895	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1898	I do not intend to contribute to any further extension of the debate in Stortinget this Friday afternoon. But I feel the need to link some comments to both the Progress Party's presentation and the Committee's consideration of this matter. The Stortinget makes final decisions on the protection of watercourses. Different considerations mean that it should be difficult to re-take a protective matter. When you do it today, a lot can be said associated with it. When it comes to the preparation of the case, I think it is correct that the Åbodal River and the distributions that were there raised questions about development more than questions of protection. This was the case, for example: These 18 landowners who had applied literally to borrow the water in a jewel that no one sees, and then to let it go out into the Saudi center, no more hearing than their application, which was inside, was treated. Therefore, it is also such that the municipality of Sauda was not heard in relation to protection. They expressed their opinion on expansion. It is my favorite for the posterity that both municipalities and landowners should be heard in a different and better way than was the case when the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in its time are dealing with this matter. Now the large watercourses are over. Nevertheless, the issue of small-scale power plants has been more topical in many rivers. It is also the case that there are many local discussions in the relationship between landowners and municipalities and local communities versus large communities. I have no other suggestion to make. I'm going to support the recommendation from the committee. But I think this is a reminder that we need to be much more careful about handling different issues. And I actually thought that the committee in its handling of this matter might have written a little bit more about what kind of arrangement was put forward here, so that not these landowners of posterity, a municipality, either, are left with the impression that they weren't heard. It has been said in letters from the Council of State, and it has been followed up by the Committee, that there have been different distributions and clarifications in advance. But it's a fact that there wasn't any protection Sauda municipality said.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1911	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3426]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1919	The increase shall now be added to the case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1927	In the course of the debate, 13 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-11, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 12, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and in particular Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 13, from Børge Burnde on behalf of Right That will be a reason for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1942	In the light of the last two articles of the Council of State, proposals are made No. 8 to 10 on transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1947	Proposals Nos. 8-10, from the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, have thus been converted into transmission proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e1986	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to open more attractive areas for exploration to stimulate several companies to compete for search areas on a Norwegian base.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e2001	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–7 and 11, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e2055	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Commission finds it highly critical that the Government did not inform the Stortinget about the treatment of the Statoil/Hydro case by the Competition Authority.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e2100	The President assumes that the Party of Progress, the Right and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e2117	During the debate, Mr Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to re-examine the adopted protection of the River Åbodal in Saudi and to ensure that fundamental democratic governance principles are applied, so that all parties concerned are consulted before final decisions are taken.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-08.ana.ud2025e2146	There is no record.
