ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e26	The chairman of the Russian Federation Council, Sergey Mironov, is here today with his delegation. The delegation is on an official visit to Norway. We hope that the delegation will have a good stay here and that it will contribute to an even better relationship with Norway and between our two parliaments. - Welcome, please. [[Applause from the Chamber]] The representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund and Ulf Leirstein, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Before considering the issues on today’s map, the President will propose that the morning meeting – if necessary – continue beyond the regulatory time, at 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. No objections have been raised against the President's proposal. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Because of the large absence of the Røre Grandningsgruppe in connection with Petter Løvik's funeral, the President will propose that the votes in the case on today's map be postponed until Thursday morning. No objections have been raised against the President's proposals. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e56	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate on the budgetary position be divided into two parts, so as to deal first with the framework area 3, the Ministry of Culture, and then with the framework area 2, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that each of the debates be limited to 65 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality and the Minister for Knowledge should be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each during the treatment of Framework Area 2 and that the Minister for Culture and the Church should be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes during the examination of the first framework area. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Here the President may state that there will be an opportunity for a three-minute round after each of the two debates. No objections have been raised against this. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e69	For the very first time, we're increasing the cultural budget by over half a billion dollars. 540 million. kr in growth until next year is historical. Never has culture grown more. We're on track for what we promised. We're following up, as we've said. In the two years we've run, we've increased our cultural effort by over $1 billion. We think it's important because culture is important in itself, but also because it makes us richer in experiences, safer on ourselves and creates the necessary debate – in the whole propensity for development that we can't do without. Those who once criticized the government party for our willingness to bet on culture were just talking, that we weren't going to deliver, now have to find other ways to criticise. We can live well with that, it does not sound very daunting. We are safe on the project we have seen. We'll follow up in the years that come. For the Workers' Party and the Government Party, Kulturlöftet is a project and a program. We both allow more money for the cultural field and we lift different parts of the culture, as we have formulated in the Cultural Promise. It is a systematic and planned work, in response to the wishes and needs of Culture-Noreg for many years. Culture is not a balancing item for us, it's a growth business. This year too, as in previous years, we are consistent with the 15 points of the cultural promise. In the Kulturlöftet we say that we should bet on Norwegian music. In the budget we follow up. Next year, the music field will grow by over 60 million. kr. We're saying we should bet on stage art. In the budget, we are increasing the investment by over 100 new million. kr for opera, theatre and dance. We say that volunteering is a pillar of our society, and follows up in the budget with nearly 30 million new dollars and nearly 40 million. kr in voluntary teams and organisations charging fees. And that's how I could keep going. These are some examples of how we follow what we've been told to do – in areas by area. Others from the Labour Party will be more closely involved in the debate on different parts of the budget. 2008 should be a year of cultural diversity. That's why we're increasing the deficit in the budget by tens of millions of dollars. We want a year to put track after track in such a way that even more people have the opportunity to experience, participate in, a larger range of cultural activities and expressions. The aim is to make cultural life more accessible, more equivalent and democratic for both actors and audiences. We therefore need both structural changes and other measures to achieve this. We have expectations, and we are looking forward to the results – not just for 2008, but the lasting changes that give us a more diverse cultural life. I am sure that it will be a success – because it is a conscious political commitment, but also because it is a great will and interest from cultural life itself. There are several thousand projects and actions planned, all of which in one form or another will set track after track in Culture-Noreg in the form of more gaps, greater width. A more diverse cultural life, both in the form of participation and expression, is one of the measures we have taken in the cultural promise, which is therefore followed up. I see that the Progress Party believes it is a threat to our Norwegian cultural heritage. No, that's not it. Threats to culture and cultural heritage are when one is self enough, when one only chooses the simple and popular, when one limits the lack, participation and involvement. Then the cultural heritage also becomes poor and sluggish. That's the threat. The working party wants a strong cultural heritage, a stronger cultural life. A missing year is a means of getting it done. We're following our plan, we're following our promises, and we're following the line we've put in. There's a thread in what we're doing. It cannot be said to be the case when it relates to the opposition. It's hard to see what their common projects are, and it's hard to see what they want in cultural policy. The whole willingness to bet on culture is perhaps the most obvious – the Progress Party wants to cut in the budget with almost $1 billion overnight, which frameworks theatre, pop and rock, festivals, movies and a whole series of other actions. The same is true in media policy, where the Progress Party and the Right are drastically setting the media gap, not least in the districts, with their proposals for cutting the press gap, while the others want to continue it. Similarly, in gambling politics, the Christian People's Party actually sees the volunteering in a billion-dollar pinch, while the others follow the politics of government parties in all material matters. The party of progress proposes drastic cuts when it comes to the Council of Culture, while the other opposition party of the Council of Culture is important and follows the line of government parties. We see that the Left wants to cut the cultural supply of the elderly, while the others are some with the government party. It's the whole thing that the opposition doesn't even want to get involved in an option. That clarification is very clear in this setting. The budget we are about to adopt today will give a diverse and strong cultural life in 2008. It's worth a cultural nation. I'm glad we're as well on track with what's the cultural effort of the times in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e107	First I want to go a little bit beyond the script. We heard the representative Johnsen criticise the cut Progress Party is doing on the cultural budget – and I know that there will be more people afterwards who will do the same. We could put it a little bit into perspective. If we ignore the press release, which is 200 million. kr, kutter The Progress Party in the budget for 2008 corresponds to the increase from the Government. It's no more than that. In 2007, 2006 and 2005, cultural life lived well. We have a different turn on it, but to say that we're outraging cultural life, that's what I think I'm talking to, well, big letters, especially when we're looking at this in perspective. We're going to reverse what the government has added to -- it's not. I don't have to say that the Progress Party has a cultural policy. If the other parties haven't discovered it now, they can't charge us for it. Our cultural policy differs from that of the others, yes it does, and as the representative Johnsen was in, we cannot unite on a cultural budget. But as in all negotiations, this too can be part of the debate when we come to a different position, perhaps in 2009. Our cultural policy differs from everyone else – it does – and we probably have a different approach to most cultural tasks than the other parties. And well it is, otherwise we would have spent time in the budget debate boasting of each other's cultural budgets and politics, and not discussing. It could quickly become a little inspiring debate. For the Progress Party, it is still important that cultural life is free and independent of political governance. Unfortunately, it seems to us that political governance is getting stronger and stronger, and that it is becoming increasingly important where the various cultural actions that are being supported by resources are located. In addition, in line with what was previously announced, the Council of State now chooses to determine, politically, how much the various genres will get within the framework of the Council of Culture, including within films. This is not near what I would call a free and independent cultural life. For a representative from the opposition, it is also sad to see how cultural life sometimes lodges with the cultural promise and the sitting red-green government. It is not particularly stimulating to sit at hearings where some organisations and cultural activities spend their time praising the Government. There are many, both in this hall and in cultural life, who seem to have forgotten that it was actually the proposals of the Advance Party that for some years back resulted in 400 million dollars of fresh money for culture and sport as we changed the key. This brings me to the first topic I want to talk about. This concerns Norsk Tipping and the lack of an overview of how the profits from there are distributed. The distribution that is now is to a great extent for me, but I was of the opinion that the profits from Norwegian Typing would go unabated to culture and sport. We did not talk about heavy reserves before the surplus was to be distributed and calculated. Norwegian Typing has such a large fund that they can without a doubt give 1 billion dollars to the voluntary Norway, which is, to a large extent, entirely in place when they now also receive incomes that the volunteers had in the past, but which do not entirely match the opinion of any of us, on how to distribute this surplus. In addition, they have spent NOK 1 billion from their investment fund buying vending machines for. There will be millions of dollars that could go to the voluntary teams and organizations, which will instead go into the Norwegian Typing fund reserve. The second point that I would like to hear from the Council of State is sports. The sport manages incredible resources every year without the Storting getting to know what the distribution is, and how much of these funds goes to children and young people. I have previously requested a sports message, and then, as far as I remember, the Council of State was in favour of it. But it may be that my memory is playing me a little fun, so I hope the council says something about this in its contribution, because it's about a lot of money and that we're going to get a sports policy that embraces everyone. Sport affects hundreds of thousands of people, including participants, supporters, parents, etc. That's why I'm still of the opinion that we needed a sports message, and I hope the council says something about it. It was the things that were not in the budget, so I guess now I should go over to what it's all about, culture. Culture is vital, and it's one of the pillars that gives people quality of life. We're different and have different needs and interests, but nothing works out without culture. The Progress Party does not want a strongly subsidized cultural life, which is quite clear from our budget. We cut, but in order that there should be no doubt: there is no cut that has not been carefully evaluated. Where we believe that we should not touch posts, we do not. The Progress Party also wants a clear profile on the cultural budget. For some, or for all other batches, this can seem obviously ridiculous and unprofessional. But believe me, we have a thought with everything. That we want as many cultural crowns as possible to benefit, is probably no secret. And that we want to signal cultural life that they should think new and creatively about where to get the income from is what we've been saying for many years. But it looks as if the cultural life of Norway wants to be ‘eid’ and funded by the state, and that we, as users of culture, are to a lesser extent allowed to choose what we want to see, hear and read. I don't think this is a good situation for cultural life in the long term, and not for us as users either. Cultural life loses its credibility with the audience when the state has to choose for us, and the audience loses interest. That is why this year, as we have done in previous years, we have cut into concrete posts, but we have created funds to stimulate performers in all genres to both market themselves and at the same time try to turn the pendulum from state "employees" artists, to more stand-alone artists who, hopefully, will have time to be even more creative, and not least to be self-employed. The Progress Party believes that cultural policy should be structured in such a way that cultural activities are more widely perceived and treated as cultural enterprises. In this way, the potential of the cultural sector can be identified both in terms of cultural policy objectives and in terms of value creation. There is no intrinsic contradiction between culture and industrial policy objectives; they actually move in the same direction. Culture and value-creating activities both contribute to the diversity and benefit of society. Claiming that cultural policy is not a matter of industrial policy is in many ways a fuss from a past when an enlightened elite was supposed to teach people what a good culture was. This is an attitude we have to get away from. People themselves must be allowed to decide what kind and how much culture they want. We believe it is of great value that culture and business meet and learn from each other. It is often through meetings that good ideas for cooperation and new cultural development are explored. Such ideas become practical cooperation and positive experiences and give more culture to people most and economic development to the delight of all. We also want to stimulate children and young people to participate in different activities, and we want the rich and varied people's culture with appeals to the broad population to get better status. That is why we are promoting a proposal for a fund for voluntary and participating cultural activities similar to those for culture and industry. In addition, it is very important for us to take care of our cultural heritage. Unfortunately, now the Storting does not want a cultural canon, which the Progress Party proposed, but we are convinced that it had been adopted, we would both have been given a focus and a debate on what is our cultural heritage. What has happened, on the other hand, is that small and large cannons have appeared in different contexts. People want cultural cannons, but politicians don't want – something that isn't surprising either. I have read that the Mangfold year 2008 has received a total of 36 million. kr. There's a lot of money when we already have a lot of diversity in Norwegian culture. Many may have very high expectations for this year of diversity, which has been widely read in the media. I could be tempted to ask the council what he thinks. Should existing measures be supported? Do you want to create new ones? It's not clear to me at least how you're going to spend these 36 million. kr. I'm just a little concerned that these new fresh funds should be used for existing measures, so that they go ahead of others in the project media queue. I could stand here and discuss individual items in the budget – individual items that the Progress Party would like to raise up and forward, but as long as there is another majority, without the Progress Party, in this Chamber, it seems almost against its purpose, because we will not create expectations in Culture-Norway without being able to carry out the things we promise, so that we get back to the day we get into government. Finally, I would like to address our proposals and inform you that we are voting against the budget position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e160	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e163	This year, too, we have a cultural budget that has the character of being a general promise. This year, as last year, there is a broad consensus on the bet. The main features of the appropriations are to the right. We cut the production support for the newspapers, and I guess we'll spend $30 million. kr for some extra bets. In view of the fact that Norway has adopted the UNESCO Convention on Intangible Cultural Heritage and the general adjustment that is taking place on the cultural budget, we believe it is striking that the population culture has come out so badly. This is a field that has shown a capacity for renewal and which can easily be stimulated by well-integrated organisations. Here are important projects such as Norway’s Young People’s Dances, ‘Building Dances’, Folkelarm and Norse Folkemusikscena – to mention something. Here's the time for a lift beyond what we've seen so far. Another field on which the right will focus more is the ABM field, which is also a recurring theme. In the right, it is now important to increase the attention of the library and archive sections in this area. Together with the Right fraction of the Education Committee, we propose five million. DKr for our budget and the education budget, i.e. $10 million. kr, for a cooperation project between the libraries in the field of education and culture. Here, a number ofcompetences have been developed in experimentation. A practical consolidation could provide a significant upgrade to the library field as a whole. The archives are a field where, unfortunately – I must say – we are concerned. One thing is that digitisation is a demanding task for which there is no special funding beyond the large state institutions. Another and more acute problem is that in many places paper archives are also in very poor condition, and that private archives in many places lack the possibility of landfilling. This applies not least to business archives. The right has proposed an additional allocation to the Landslag for local and private archives, with a view to strengthening this work across the country. A third area where we want a stronger bet is the free field within stage art and music ensembles. Here it has been a positive – I would say very positive – development, in connection with last year’s creation of the ‘subsidy item’ for the free groups of Norwegian cultural funds. A little disappointing is that the item this year has not been followed up with an amount that makes you fill in the purpose of this item. Right-wing think free groups and ensembles are among the most important areas of growth for artistic diversity. On a general basis, we believe that priority should be given to these fields, which we have followed up in our draft budget in various ways. If you read the budget proposal, you'll see that 'diversity' has become a mantra for the Government of Cultural Policy. Basically, this is something that sounds good to the Right's ears. But when we see the policy being pursued, unfortunately, enthusiasm is falling quite quickly, because is the premise for diversity something more than a party formula? On the right, the main prerequisite for diversity is that the breadth of decision-makers and sources of funding in cultural life is the greatest possible. During the annual budgetary debates, the Right has highlighted the importance of keeping state grants to cultural life up against cultural integrity and the need for innovation and diversity. We want more actors and other grips. One operation is the creation of a broad cultural and business organisation, usually based on the Forum for Culture and Business. Unfortunately, we now see a policy by the Government in which political governance becomes increasingly visible. This is expressed in several ways. The desire for less bureaucracy is initially affordable. The question will only be whether rationalisation through aggregation results in concentration of power as a result. Welcome to the Løken Committee. We believe that the desire to spread power must be the task of the sample to evaluate, not just what are the most rational solutions from an economic point of view. The handles that were made through the film message are an example of reflection. The new film fund concentrates power into a small professional environment, where the networks become quite crowded. Nor is there any indication that the regional environments should be built up as a counterweight to the concentration of power in Oslo. The same trend is seen in relation to an increasingly strong political governance of the Norwegian Cultural Fund. The division of the 55th year naturally leads to a more detailed approach, and the somewhat obscured dictatement of the Council of Culture, for example in connection with the Jo Stroemgren post last year, shows a trend in the same direction. Maybe it's time to do something with the Norwegian Cultural Council, but we could maybe wait until the Løken Committee had said theirs, so that this could be handled in a whole way. Now it only gives signals of desire and will to stronger control, not the spread of power, as Right wants. Another increasingly pressing issue in terms of diversity is what the Government puts into concrete terms. Based on the Government's approach through examples and mention of the Year of Manhood, it is clear that the main consideration is how new countrymen, preferably from non-European countries, take part in cultural life, i.e. a clear integration perspective. Integration is important. Contributions from people with a different cultural point of view are an enrichment we're going to bring with us. The question is whether an exclaimed year of diversity is an appropriate approach and whether integration policy-based measures are a matter for the Ministry of Culture. Right-wing think cultures from other celestial strata should find their own ways into the meeting with the Norwegian. We want to build on the initiatives that emerge from the immigrant communities themselves, and will, through positive instruments – not impositions and state instructions – facilitate good meeting places and common venues. The multicultural cultural house in Drammen is a good example of this. Instead, we have been given a little process in which the cultural institutions compromise on solutions – most recently Oslo New Theatre, which is struggling to find qualified actors. But they should put themselves in the harness to deliver, because if we are to believe our own eyes and the interview with the Council of State Giske in the Class struggle, the institutions have to deliver in the repertoire in order not to be punished in the budget of recent years. The Council of State will evaluate the effort – and I'm excited about what criteria. When we dealt with the matter of the year of diversity here in Stortinget, Right warned against the instrumental overtones this matter had. It has since been shown that there was good reason for the warning. The Manifest Year has not been followed up with an economy that is in line with the level of ambition that the Government has put into this project. Instead, the project has been implemented through clear leadership of cultural life to focus on the government’s politically correct integration project. Here, through letters of allocation, meetings, expectations through press and lectures, and clear signals given in this year’s budget, the public-funded cultural life in Norway has been instructed to set up. The effort shall be evaluated and the evaluation shall be remembered in subsequent budgetary proceedings. This is – if the purpose is never so good – purely instrumentalism. The Manifest Year comes as a sort of political conclusion to a development most of us have been in since the 1980s. The organisation of cultural life is, as a result of a wild policy, built up a pyramidal structure with increasingly efficient and streamlined communication channels into the leadership of the Ministry of Culture. The goal has always been to strengthen cultural life. No one imagined that power and influence would also go the other way – from power to cultural life itself. Everything is now in place, so that the state's lukewarm hand can move money and manage contentiously with joint mobilisation on the political priorities of the Government. It is decided that films should be equalised, that a collective cultural life should be integrated, and that voluntary communication should identify how the voluntary can contribute to achieving the objectives of the Government’s various programme areas. In short – we see no one thought, we see clear outlines of a wild instrumental cultural policy. In the view of the Right, this is the opposite of a diversity policy. To stop where I started – there is agreement to bet on an increased cultural budget. The right is behind the government in relation to an increased stake, and we do so in line with the signals we gave in connection with the cultural message a few years ago. But we do not approve of the premises, and we believe that cultural policy must be built after a completely different course than the one we are now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e197	SV is very pleased with Regestinga's historical commitment to culture. No previous government has spent so much money on culture, and this year, for the first time, we have an increase of over SEK 1/2 billion on the state budget. It's just to say hurrah. The foundation of the government's cultural effort has been laid through the cultural promise goal of 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes by 2014. This has been one of the SV's proposals in our alternative cultural budget for many, many years, and it feels good to be involved in getting this promise in place. Action on culture means more jobs, integration, poverty reduction, health, quality of life, learning and business development. But cultural policy must respect the self-esteem of art and culture, while also contributing to other societal goals through a cultural promise. The main task of cultural policy is to facilitate the diversity of cultural offerings and artistic expressions. This will be particularly important as we enter the year of diversity in 2008. A priority objective of cultural policy is to ensure that everyone has access to artistic and cultural experiences, and to ensure that the ability to express themselves through art and culture is not dependent on geographical or social divides. SV will stress that for the future it means that we need to look more closely at the territorial distribution of state cultural resources. There are currently large differences in appropriations per year. the population. This has its natural explanation that some states have more large and heavy institutions than others, but if we're going to get a commitment to culture across the country, it's important that we focus on new establishments and new expressions in those parts of the country that get little cultural crowns per. the population. Another element is the gender perspective of cultural policy. We have come a long way, with a Minister of Culture who has been willing to raise the issue of equality in cultural policy. But we have a long way to go – from admission to studies to roles of older female actors. It is important for diversity, expression and experience that both sexes are represented in Norwegian cultural life, and SV is happy that it is a goal for the Government to ensure equal conditions for women and men also within the cultural field. It is important to create good working conditions for artists and cultural workers. It is necessary for artistic freedom and for diversity to be guaranteed. It also means a lot to the recruitment of young artists. It is also important to ensure the rights of authors and practitioners in the field of culture. National and regional cultural institutions are important cultural intermediaries, but it is also extremely important that the free groups in the field of performing arts are given safe and predictable framework conditions. Norway is a small language area and the Norwegian language is under constant pressure. An offensive language policy is therefore needed, so that Norwegian remains the preferred language in all parts of Norwegian society. The public has a special responsibility to care for cultural areas with values beyond a purely commercial appeal. The market cannot only ensure adequate quality, innovation and diversity within cultural life. Finally, I would like to stress that the focus on children and young people is essential in order to be able to recruit new artists and, in particular, to develop new artistic and cultural expressions in the future. Efforts such as the cultural school and the cultural school system are important in this context. Through these activities, children and young people are trained to become demanding and competent art and cultural users, and not least practitioners. Therefore, it is so important that these offers develop and become an offer to all children. I look forward to the Mangfold Year in 2008 and hope that cultural institutions across the country have the child-and-young perspective in mind in the Year of Mangfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e227	Let me start by saying that the Christian People's Party sees the proposal for the cultural budget for next year as essentially a good budget proposal. Increased appropriations for many good purposes are good. Some measures, must be admitted, are of particular importance for the Christian People's Party. We would have liked to have strengthened these further. That's why we also proposed increasing frame area 3 by 16 million. in addition to the Government's proposals for the consideration of the financial position. In addition, we proposed to increase the funding for cultural actions under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs area by another 10 million. kr, while we suggested 4.5 million. kr extra on frame 16 under the Ministry of Culture and the Church, so that the Church's cultural work could be given a promise – in line with our alternative state budget, which of course did not get a majority. There is no need to ensure that appropriations for the cultural sector are increasing. However, with increased transfers, important issues related to government governance and cultural autonomy are also being raised. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we have a cultural life that stimulates creativity and innovation. Public cultural activities shall contribute to a wide range of services available throughout the country. Adequate public support is necessary to stimulate a vital cultural life. The public cultural debate is therefore characterised by much of what is known as sufficient support. However, it is equally important how this aid is allocated and which leads to transfers by the authorities. In this context, I cannot escape some concern about how transfers of funds are now being used to direct cultural life towards the political objectives of the Government. It has been common to stress that art and culture should be freely and freely exercised, without the need for a dictatorship of authority and political instructions. The task of the state is to be an organizer. This can best safeguard the self-esteem and autonomy of art and culture. A prerequisite for a living cultural life is that institutions and organisations have sufficient freedom to maintain their values and their singing skills. Unfortunately, we have recently attempted an unfortunate exercise of power on the part of the Government. In the context of the Mangfold Year, on which the representative Olemic Thommessen was also strongly involved, the Ministry has granted direct financial support to various institutions, totalling 36 million. kr. Then, in the class struggle on December 4th, the Council of State, Gisk, has said that the institutions will be evaluated after 2008, among other things. on the basis of how they have contributed to the work on cultural diversity in 2008 and the impact on the budgets of 2009 and 2010. The Christian People's Party has nothing against the Mangfold Year 2008, nor does it have any money for this – on the contrary. But as I read this, punishment is almost threatened in the following years with a background in how the institutions contributed to the Year of Manhood, and then it goes too far. We can't have it that way. Authorities must have confidence in institutions that they themselves can use their creativity to design their own programme for the Year of Manpower. Another example of the same is the fact that Trondheim Jazz Orchestra entered permanent posts in the 2007 state budget. According to the Ballade website on 16 November 2007, the Gisk State Council has made clear demands on the orchestra when it achieves stability and predictability of funding. According to Ballade, these requirements concern: ‘overarching objectives of the policy of the red-green government and directly intervene in the crew and programming of the TJO; gender equality and cultural diversity’. Unheard of! In the light of what I have said, I want to innovate the Council of States that, in the time to come, he is taking better care of the autonomy of cultural life and developing its infrastructure. We need strong and vital singer organisations, and we need institutions that generate artistic activity based on their own professional assumptions. As mentioned, the Christian People's Party in its alternative cultural budget has proposed to increase the framework in relation to the Government. In conclusion, I can only mention that within this framework we have prioritised the following: activity support for cows with 1 million. kr. Voluntary activities are strengthened, in particular with regard to children and young people at local level. We're proposing 2.5 million. kr more to Frifond. Support for archive, library and museum purposes is increased by 5.5 million. kr – to mention one of the most important things. The time doesn't allow me to go further on that. I just want to end by addressing the proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the vote both alone and together with other parties, proposals that to date have not been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e258	The representative of Ola T. Loan has taken up the suggestions he made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e261	The centre party has always had high ambitions for cultural policy. With the 2008 cultural budget, the Government is probably setting out an economic exclusivity in its commitment to culture, sport and volunteering. For the cultural sector, reading of the annual budget proposals has often given a feeling that a ‘good talk’ is being held. The volume of honest publicity and the description of the importance of the sector has also rarely been in relation to the actual proposals for allocation. Therefore, an increase in the total 2008 budget of the Ministry of Culture and the Church by more than half a billion dollars is not only historically high, it is also an expression that the three government parties jointly prioritise the cultural field in the budget elite division. This means that one actually follows up on the expectations and obligations defined in the Cultural Promise. With the 2008 budget, the Government is well on track with the follow-up to the Cultural Promise. However, although half a billion dollars are formidable in cultural context, government parties are at the same time aware of the high expectations of the sector for the respective grants and genres. It will therefore not be possible to meet all the wishes and expectations already at the half-life of the grossing-up period. The government itself has stretched the bow high, which I believe in itself seems vital to the sector. And although some have not achieved their hopes for the 2008 budget, I am reasonably sure that understanding of the need to prioritise some areas in front of others in a single financial year. That some institutions and organisations express disappointment, I therefore interpret more as a positive impatience and great expectation of the Government's cultural policy. It is difficult to highlight some measures in front of others in a brief article. Nevertheless, on behalf of the Centre Party, I would like to pay particular attention to the budget's commitment to volunteering. Without pre-empting the next week’s debate on the voluntary notification, it is particularly gratifying that the Government already in the 2008 budget is financially fulfilling several of the measures announced in the communication. The government gives a concrete hand in the budget to the voluntary sector in the form of an increase of just over 24 million. kr over the cultural budget. In addition, the budget also amounts to 40 million. kr. The limit on the amount of the exemption from payroll obligations and advances is doubled, and the lower limit on voluntary organisations' obligations to pay employers' contributions is raised by 50 pst. The last thing is seen as a personal victory for me, because, as political adviser in the Ministry of Local Affairs and Regional Affairs last year, I was one of those who conveyed an example from an organisation in Egersund and exerted pressure on the financial fraction. The scheme was not adjusted in ten years. These are actions that will have an economic impact on each organisation and on the many volunteers who receive a small annual allowance for the thousands of hours spent to the satisfaction of others. However, the adjustments will also bring benefits in terms of reducing red tape within organisations, which in itself is perceived to be burdensome. Grants for the establishment of volunteer centres, the strengthening of the Free Fund, the increase in the subsidy scheme for the purchase of musical instruments for the school corps and the strengthening of grants for training facilities are all examples of the Government’s focus on improving the framework conditions for local volunteering and cultural activities at grassroots level. Strengthening the Norwegian language to cope with external pressure is defined as a separate focus in the Culturallift. Not least this is true of the new Norwegian language and font. It has therefore been important for the Centre Party to address this challenge in the 2008 budget. In concrete terms, this is reflected in a ‘newsman package’ containing a strengthening of institutions that promote and develop the use of newnorms. Not least this applies to the Norwegian Theatre and the Nynorsk Cultural Centre, which will receive fresh money in 2008. In addition, priority is given to increased funding for both the support system for the publication of new Norwegian literature, the Norwegian Goal and the dictionary project, which covers more than 12 volumes. shall document the emergence and development of the newnorth. Concrete promises are followed up by concrete increases in appropriations. Therefore, with the 2008 government budget, this government further strengthens the economic foundation on which cultural policy is based and which will in future provide opportunities for growth on which the cultural sector will grow in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e289	The left believes that the government has made many fine additions to culture that are also widely agreed on. But if we were to make a list of who it is that grants the most to culture, the government is just going to beat the Progress Party, which is at the bottom. I'm not going to stay so much at the sum of left's additions to all budgets, as the Christian People's Party explained when they were involved, but the Left's alternative budget is between 300 and 400 million. kr more on culture. There are three things we've wanted to raise. The first is folk culture, cultural memory protection and that whole subject. We've now got a scene for folk music, but that we've got it doesn't mean that we can relax in all the other areas. On the contrary, it means that priority should be given to all projects from organisational life in the field of folk culture and folk music, but also to our archives and the projects relating to dissemination, such as ‘Building Dances’. In the cultural memory field, the Left considers it important to give priority to small crafts, and has done so in its budget. We're worried that we're getting a cultural memory year that's not really planned, and we're not going to get the effect you want, and we've prioritised it by 4 million. Extra kroner. We've added 200 million. kr extra to the fund in that area. Our second bet goes to the museum, where we have now built up a retreat for a long time, and I really expected that a government with all the world's money had the opportunity to also re-enter the museum sector. This has been done in the alternative budget of the Left. Our third effort is in literature and libraries. We want to expand the purchasing system, we also want to start some projects, and we are very anxious because the Council of State, sail if he has notified a notice of libraries, have also announced that expectations in the library sector are unrealistic. With the Left's budget, we show how we can meet it. On the literature side, we have given priority to the great anniversary of Hamsun and Bjørnson, but we also ensure that we keep the important cultural institutions locally, which are the small, local bookstores, which have been strangled by the Government because of the school book system and other schemes that weaken them very much. But we also think it's important to have ambitions on behalf of the centers we have around. Now the additions were fine, but we're worried about the developments related to the Garborg Center, and I'm also a little anxious because the government parties didn't want to support our remark in that area. Then there's a big difference here in the hall between the instrumental view of culture and the view of free culture. It has come to light very well in this state budget. In particular, it is the governance associated with the Year of Manhood that has frightened us a little. It's actually so that what we thought was the cultural promise, actually turns out to be Mangfold year. It was thought that it was the Cultural Promise that would lead to additions, but according to Regeringa, it is the Year of Mangfold that leads to additions. It'll also be a little daunting for those institutions, because that means they haven't got a promise, but it can look like a one-off grant linked to the Year of Man, and not a general one-off, which is what's wanted, at least by the other parties. The Year of Manifestment believes the Left is important. We believe that it should have been used as an opportunity for us to lift especially the multicultural institutions. We'll do that in our alternative budget by giving $1 million. kr more to You big world!, 1 million. kr more to CAK, 1.5 mill. kr more to Mela, 1.5 million. kr more to Nordic Black Theatre, 1 mill. kr more to Cosmopolite and 1 mill. kr more to Utrop. We believe that there should also be a driving force to get through the «Fast» as a project that could become a real pole after a year of diversity in this particular field. In addition, we go into and support higher education arts. We're supporting 50 new work grants. We also support all the institutions that we see slowly aft, such as the Haugesund Theatre and the classical music field in North Norway. We want to bet on the Kunstbank at Hedmark Kunstsenter and develop it as the performance art arena, and we want to give more support to the free performing arts. We do not support difficult bureaucratic projects, and we were a little frightened when we started to go into the work of the Cultural Spaserstick, where it looks as if a third of what is granted is primarily granted for the bureaucratic handling of applications and the writing of applications for applicants. We want that money out for culture for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e311	Is the representative of the Skei Grande going to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e314	Yes, then I'll take up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e321	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e324	After the government change in 2005, we have had a paradigm shift in the cultural effort in Norway. While the average increase in the cultural budget in the years 2001–2005 was modest, we now have a formidable commitment. But paradigm shifts don't just apply to heads and ears. This clearly also applies to the attitude of the civil parties, minus the Advance Party, towards culture. While culture was not put on while the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left put in government, it is now also in those tones that sound different than then. It's positive. We're going to enjoy that. This means that there is broad support for the government’s formidable commitment to culture – with 40 million. kr more for film, with a huge rocking lift, with a fabulous bet on the opera that next year will open its new building in Bjørvika, strengthening music, strengthening imagery, strengthening literature and libraries. The museums can also be called budget winners this year with 65 million. kr in increase. The government is concerned that the culture should be a joy for everyone. That's why we're also giving money to the cultural spaser stick, an increase of 5 million. kr from last year, so that we ensure that even more older people get a cultural offer that is adapted to them. At the same time, we propose that we strengthen the efforts of children and young people, including: through the cultural school bag. This is not an instrumental approach to cultural policy. This is cultural policy. It is the overall objective that everyone should be able to participate in cultural activities and experiences, which are at the heart of our cultural policy. Saying that this is instrumental thinking is abdicating as cultural politicians. It's saying that we don't care whether or not everyone should be allowed to participate in cultural life. It has nothing to do with instrumental thinking. It has to do with a vision for society, and that vision also includes cultural life. To this extent, one should take it as a joy that the only serious objection you have to the cultural budget is this so-called instrumental grasp or thought that the Government stands for. But in principle it can hardly be called, this criticism. Take the year of Mangfold as an example. Do we, as cultural politicians, as socialists, who were probably the ones who drove us to vote for this Chamber, want us to have a society where everyone can make their cultural expressions, where diversity can unfold, that we should create a society where we appreciate diversity, and not get a reduction? Yes, I think we as cultural politicians should be in favour of that. The question is, shall we, at the same time as cultural politicians, take action to make this a reality? If we're going to use the cultural policy tools we have to achieve it, or we're going to say, no, we're going to send a check, and then we're going to cross our fingers and hope that it goes well. That is what the opposition invites us to do when they say that we should not make demands on institutions that receive firm support, that they should have a diversity perspective. Most eye-catching is when such an experienced cultural politician as Lånke says that it is shocking to hear that the Council of State should evaluate the diversity of institutions. Well, even during the periods when the Christian People's Party had the Minister of Culture, demands were made on children and young people, on audience attendance, on tour activities and a number of other things, which I assume were evaluated every year, and which then in the next row laid the foundation for future appropriations. It must be a kind of system for those who receive support in cultural life. I also think it is a pity that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left do not support what the Government proposes when it comes to converting the budget procedures. When we invite the Stortinget to make the main distribution to the Norwegian Cultural Council, it is a democratization, because it was not done by the Norwegian Cultural Council before. It was done by the Government of the Council of State. It is a move of power from the meeting that takes place at the Castle every Friday, to this hall. That a party that launched the term "All power in this room" goes against it, to me, is alarming. This strengthens the debate on the cultural budget. It strengthens the understanding of the cultural budget. It strengthens the ability of artists and cultural workers to influence the cultural budget, and it strengthens the power of the Storting over the cultural budget. It's very strange that not a co-ordinated magnification joins.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e342	There's a little fuss going down my spine when I hear the argument that the Council of State comes up with to be able to approve in a way of political governance of culture. Politically determine parts of the resources of the Culture Council, politically determine the use of the funds in the new film institute, politically determine, where appropriate also sanctions, parts of cultural life in connection with the use of the resources of the Year of Manpower and not least intervene and also override local measures, such as: The Bergen Opera – does the Council of State think this is a free and independent cultural life?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e349	I believe that a free and independent cultural life is combined very well with the fact that different political parties in government and big business make cultural budgets. The Progress Party also determines in its cultural budget how much to go to music, and how much to go to film, how much to go to orchestra, and how much to go to free groups. Yes, you actually go in quite detail and tell us where to go. It's cultural policy. Therefore, I believe that when the Stortinget is given the opportunity to determine how much of the Council of Culture's money is going to go to music, to visual art or to literature, it is a strengthening of cultural democracy and the opportunity to debate it. This is not about governance of cultural life, it is about governance of cultural policy, and it is principles that the Progress Party also follows in its alternative state budget. But then the Cultural Council will decide which free theatre groups will receive support, which festivals will receive support, and which books will be purchased. This is the artistic beauty to be practiced by the Council of Culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e356	It seems that we have quite different perceptions of where the limit of control goes. I have in front of me the print from the Class struggle, which I referred to in the post, where the Council of State signals evaluation. There is also an interview with Harry Guttormsen, who is Dean at the Faculty of Performing Arts. He is asked if he has any suggestions on how to strengthen diversity. He replies a little differently, but he says, ‘In addition, we should look at how the Norwegian Dramatic Festival can be ordered to look up a textual basis that stimulates and holds cultural diversity as a perspective.’ Does this sound like a good proposal to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e366	That seems to me to be a proposal we should listen to. I believe that all cultural institutions and organisations in Norway should take into account that Norway looks very different today than it did 30 years ago. This doesn't come of itself. No groups in society have been brought in for equivalent treatment without costing labor and effort. And it's hard and we now have to put in to ensure the ethnic and cultural diversity of cultural life. It's not going to happen if we don't add the leads. But putting the leaders of the cultural institutions has been done under all governments and by all cultural ministers. The obvious thing now is that the opposition believes that it is not necessary to evaluate whether or not the leaders you submit are being followed up. That means that it's a clean tombo who's going to get an increase next year. After all, we need to have some success criteria for which the institutions are measured. I thought, for example. It was generally accepted that the cultural institutions that were most innovative, which brought us on, should also be rewarded with increased additions. It is possible that the same agreement is now evaporated.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e375	The Council of State began its contribution by proclaiming a paradigm shift in cultural appropriations after 2005. He made it almost as if it had been stagnation. Governments know very well that year after year, under previous governments, the cultural budget was considerably increased. I'm not going to bring up a discussion about numbers here, but this the Council of State knows very well. I would like to ask the Council of State, in connection with something else, about this with the opera bet. We are all looking forward to the Norwegian opera getting new premises and new houses. When it was decided to build a new opera house, Stortinget also made a different decision. A joint committee said at the time that, in parallel with the construction of a new opera house, opera and ballet environments will also develop in the country, in the different regions, and develop activity accordingly, which will also be part of the ring-effects of the construction of a new opera house. My question to the Council of State is to what extent it has happened. And how does he view the possibility of realizing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e382	First of all. There is no doubt that there has been a formidable shift in the pace of cultural policy, and in some areas the direction has even changed. For example, in the case of films, Cute 17 million. kr in the previous grossing-up period. Now it's increased by 100 million. kr. Then it's not just how big the bet is, which is the difference, then it's actually whether it's bet or whether it's decline. As for the opera, I am of the opinion that the bet we now have in Bjørvika must be matched by a bet in the country. So betting on the district operation is part of the cultural promise. There is also an increase of several million DKK in the 2008 state budget. But now that we have phased into the opera in Bjørvika – 2008 will be an extra big boost, because then the move will also take place – I believe that it must be the turn of the district opera to get a lift. Established permanent institutions such as the Oslo opera around Norway, we may never have, but we should have a strong offer of opera elsewhere than in the capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e390	The Council of State replied to the representative Thommes that it was basically okay to also crash which pieces the theatres were to set up. That's a very different way of governing than what's been done in the past, that you're based on the measure of what you want to have of production, of the money you give. The interesting question of follow-up to this is: when the Council of State has come up with wishes for what the theatres should set up, what they should play, in the coming year of diversity, what does the Council of State think is an appropriate punishment for those institutions that do not follow up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e395	I think that the institutions that follow up on the leadership of the big business, the ministry and the government should be given a boost, and, in some cases, great additions – at least as long as we are in government – and those who do not, should not get so big additions, perhaps cut. It must be a system. We are not going to decide what should be set up in the theatres, as the representative Skei Grande says, but also during her party's reign, for example. called on the institutions and the theatres to be innovative. It means setting up new plays. It's a repertoire choice. A theater that just set up sound of music all year, would probably not have met that criterion, at least not if they did it in a traditional way. So the question is: would Skei Grande take the consequence that the leader wasn't followed up, or would she say, oh yes, you've just set up the Sound of Music all year long. That's great. You're going to get a solid addition next year. It's a pointless way to pursue cultural policy. This approach to instrumental thinking is, of course, completely lacking in a distinction between cultural policy and artistic discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e404	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e407	I too would like to remind this speaker that in this budgetary year we are completing the national opera building in Bjørvika. The completion is in front of the timetable, and we can only congratulate and enjoy the opening in April. Culture has come into the first division of policy — once again a clear budget winner. One billion dollars more, the culture has been satisfied after the red-green government joined. The cultural promise is on track: by 2014 1 pst. of the State budget for cultural purposes. But the cultural promise is about more, on the status of culture, on the recognition of the importance of art for the quality of life of individuals,on the recognition of art and culture as a driver of the critical societal debate and as a driver of urban and regional development,on the recognition of the economic and industrial importance of jobdevelopment As a consequence of long-term hunger feeding of the cultural area, the first year of the cultural promise has led to the necessary strengthening of most areas of cultural life, but nevertheless most of all to those areas that had become mostly dependent on, such as: The dance and the free stage field. But the whole cultural field with all its areas has been significantly strengthened. In the past, this has been criticised by the opposition — no priorities, no line in the Cultural Lift. This year's criticism is the opposite. Uniformity, directives and political governance are the implementing principles. In particular, the criticism is directed against the Year of Mangfold. For, in addition to the appropriations directly devoted to specific projects, all cultural institutions supported by the Ministry have been asked by letters of award to promote cultural diversity in 2008. We want the Mangfold Year to be something more than a happy start to a lasting multicultural cultural life. We believe that such a requirement for the established institutions can contribute to it. The established institutions will see how repertoire and formerly invisible cultural workers can provide vitality and innovation. When cultural policy is promised to be a left-hand job to become an important policy area, cultural policy as other policy areas must be subject to the same objectives and results requirements, not to the artistic content, but to critical analysis, economics, organisation and management requirements. When the increase for film purposes is as large as it is now, a goal and requirement for a rational and appropriate organisation must be defined – therefore review and reorganisation. In such a context, it is also necessary to see the announced review of the functional distribution between Norwegian cultural funds and other budgetary areas and the review of the entire cultural field. When one through the Cultural Promise raises the cultural area to an important policy area, it is also recognised that a good artistic and cultural offer cannot be resolved by the market alone. There is a need for political commitment to ensure breadth and diversity. The political responsibility is contributing to good conditions for creating, disseminating and experiencing merely contributing to the high economic potential of the arts and cultural field, thus contributing to the creation of working conditions and social rights for artists in their work, so that they can live from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e454	The red-green government has ambitions for its cultural policy, and we translate our ambitions into practical action. We are on track with the Cultural Promise, and there are clear priorities. We systematically prioritise the 15 points of the cultural promise. One of them is the investment in language, literature and libraries, where the government proposes a total increase of 28 million. kr. This year's Nobel Prize winner in literature, Doris Lessing, used his Nobel Lecture to talk about the world's poor and their hunger for books. She tells about her visit to Zimbabwe, where everyone she meets at a school, begs for books, and where a man says this, "They taught us to read, but we don't have anything to read in." She goes on to say, "To be able to write, to create literature, you have to be close to the library, with books, with Tradition." Doris Lessing describes why literature is so important to the readership and the ability to acquire new knowledge, but also as an inspiration for new authors. In cultural policy, it is important to provide access to literature through libraries throughout the country, purchasing systems for literature and the organisation of people with reading difficulties, as well as to support authors. Cultural policy was the first area in which we had a common red-green policy. In many ways this paved the way for further cooperation and a red-green government. We can say that this is not the case on the civil side. In a few areas, the parties stand further apart than in cultural policy. The party of progress will rage Culture-Norway by making dramatic cuts, while the Left sets actively on culture. But also internally between the former government parties is breaking up the policy in all directions. Right will cut sharply in the press support, while the Christian People's Party will keep it. The Christian People's Party will have strict restrictions on game policy, while the Left will have a liberal policy. The opposition is now trying to turn the cultural debate into an ideological settlement with the cultural policy of the red-green government. We would like to have an ideological debate. But in addition to tumultuous words and attacks, it is difficult to see what is the ideological alternative to the government's cultural policy. Right criticises the Government for the concentration of power in conjunction with the merger of the institutions of the new film institute. But why on earth do they support this merger? Also in voluntary policy, the Government is accused of having an instrumental approach and of wanting to govern volunteering, which is directly wrong. But where is the alternative policy, and what proposals in the voluntary communication are the instrumental ones? Most of the actions promoted are on the initiative of the voluntary organisations. We would like to have an ideological debate on cultural policy. But the only party that ideologically stands out in cultural policy is the Progress Party. Almost 900 million. kr kutter The Progress Party in its cultural budget. Having an active cultural policy means that the Progress Party creates uniformity and is the same as the policy pursued by the lye-poor totalitarian regime in North Korea. What is the cultural policy of the red-green government comparable to North Korea? With the Advance Party at the rudder, we would have had a poorer cultural life, dominated by a one-sided commercial expression. Because that's not what the Progress Party likes to think, that by cutting it off in the cultural budget, most people can choose what are important cultural arenas for them. Most people get less choice, and in many cases no choice at all. When it's cut in the cultural appropriations, it's the ones with the big resources and the big money in the back that decides what's culture for the most people. When the Progress Party cuts in support of the node institutions within the music field, they hit both the Notodden bluesfestival and the jazz festival in Molde. When the Advance Party cuts in support of language and literature, they hit those who today have the worst access to the written word. Next Browser is searching for a book, deaf-blind and multilingual library actions. When the Progress Party cuts in movies, it means that fewer Norwegian films will be produced. And when the Progress Party cuts in the press support, it means a rage of the locals, the meaningful newspapers, and no. The 2 newspapers in the big cities. This will have serious consequences for the diversity and impact on freedom of expression, legal certainty and a living democracy. We can conclude that with the cultural policy of the Progress Party, we are moving from cultural diversity to cultural simplicity. A cultural life governed by the Advance Party may not be so different from what we saw in the former Communist regimes, but now with a market liberalistic face. When Culture-Norway knows what's the alternative to the red-green government, it might not be so strange that they lodge for the policy of the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e488	Culture is one of the main areas of government activity, and one of the highest priority objectives of the cultural policy of the Red-Greens is to ensure that everyone has access to artistic and cultural experiences, and to ensure that the ability to express themselves through art and culture does not depend on geography or social divides. The government is in the process of realizing the cultural promise by stepping up the cultural effort to 1 pst. by the State budget. We'll follow this cultural promise. Not many people thought we were going to do it. There is a bet that – no matter what is said in this room – no one has ever seen the case, and that bet should continue. Now in 2008, we're going to spend SEK 7.6 billion on culture, and that commitment is going to continue in the coming years. I want to talk about Stavanger European City of Culture 2008. It will receive the last 40 million with this budget. The government has then granted a total of 100 million. kr to the European city of culture, and soon the start of the shot. When you have granted as much as NOK 100 million, it's not because the government wants us living in Stavanger and Rogaland to have so much fun to do, but because Culture City 2008 is a big national and international event. It's Stavanger, it's Liverpool, it's the whole of Europe. On 12 January, the opening ceremony will be broadcast directly to the NRK, with the royal family and state council present. At the same time as the opening of Stavanger in 2008, the Council of State is going to open the Year of Mangfold, which in itself is a very important year. So there's two big events going on in Stavanger on January 12th, and they're going to go on out all year. The focus of 2008 has been on differentiating from other European Capitals of Culture. It's not like we're going to fly in big stars and fly them out again the next day. They kind of come in either way. There are large artistic companies with young, enthusiastic people from Europe and from South Africa, they are local, regional and national forces, they are new productions, and they are new performances. All artists will stay in the country for several weeks, where they will also attend and contribute to seminars, schools and kindergartens, elderly centres and businesses. And all of this takes place in collaboration with festivals and party games and institutions throughout Art and Culture Norway, from Harstad in the north to Kristiansand in the south. It confirms that it is a national event. All the cities supporting Kulturby in 2008 will participate in the opening ceremony in Stavanger. What the other cities and places in Norway get once again is a division of competences, and that's what they want most of all. To achieve this, an evaluation programme has been launched, the first of its kind that is research-based, with a follow-up to Stavanger2008 close on for three years. This makes one to discover and learn and document how the different activities of the cultural city year affect people, and that's how you can use it afterwards. The 2008 cultural city year is going to be amazing. It's a huge bet on children and young people. One uses entire landscapes out like the arena, like the stage and as an art expression, and it's in a way that's never been done before. I have to be told that if someone is flying to Stavanger, you have to look out the window during the approach. Then a few will see or read something beautiful by Garborg. I'm not saying more than that. 2008 becomes a year full of culture and art throughout the country under the direction of Stavanger 2008. But just as important as what I was into is what comes next. Now it's like 80 pst. of the established new cooperation relations within and outside cultural life wish to continue after the cultural urban year. Networks have been established between culture, school, kindergarten, seniority and business in the whole country, and it will continue at the end of the cultural year. The culture shall be incorporated into all thought. For this 100 million. kr will be a colorful cultural diversity, which will be preserved afterwards and which will increase its significance. When the president was prime minister, he said we should not just have something to live with, but it's just as important to have something to live for. All those who are in this room, and everyone else interested in art, culture and diversity, are cordially welcome to participate in all events to be held in the context of 2008 – at least it means that we get a much richer life. Think how poor we would have been without the cultural effort that this government has, and that this government will continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e507	The speakers who now have the floor have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e510	It is with great satisfaction that I record that the red-green government does what it promised it would do. So far, we've actually allocated over $1 billion to culture. I'll go into the economics later. Now just a little bit to the debate on instrumental thinking in cultural policy. I must say that I support the Council of State Giske. As the term is used here today, instrumental thinking will affect all kinds of political appropriations. At the same time, I am pleased with all the guards here, because these are important principles. What has not been mentioned here today, and which I believe must be governing, is the arm's length distance principle. It interferes with each other – but there is a difference between shaving and cutting off the chin, as it is called. I feel like we need that debate. I also think it is entirely right that a critical view is being taken of the policy pursued by the Government, but we must keep the course and not throw out the child with the bath water. With regard to appropriations, it is strange to look back at the comments that came from the launch of the Culture Communication. After all, we said that we were going to conduct the policy we are pursuing today. And it's funny when the representative Trine Skei Grande almost gawks over that it's just the Progress Party that's worse than this government in terms of cultural policy. Then the memory is short. The government fulfills what it said it should do. When we launched the Cultural Promise, Trine Skei Grande referred to it as a bit of a pathetic populist surrender policy. After all, Trine Skei Grande will soon have to decide whether what we're doing is a pathetic populist overbidder policy, or whether it's realistic politics. When Trine Skei Grande now has the money to go over that budget, there might be other comments for that. Our advantage is that we have a unified government that is behind cultural policy. The previous Minister of Culture thanked us in this Chamber for helping them to pull up the cultural budget. At that time there was no general understanding within the government of the importance of culture. Ola T. Loan wouldn't mention any number, and I won't bother Ola T. Loan to say what kind of appropriations were given in the last period, but it can't be compared to what's given now. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left participated in a fiscal policy of 12 billion dollars a year in the previous period. These billions are now better applied to, for example: on culture. They do not find that tax relief is the right policy today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e523	The representative Gjul was unable to see that there were some ideological differences over and above those facing the Progress Party. I think that this debate has really shown that there is an ideological difference. There's an ideological difference between those who represent an instrumental approach, and those who are based on the fact that culture has self-value, and that it's kind of leading. Then the Council of State will have the honor of having him stand by, because it gives an opportunity to discuss this properly. It is then shown that in the past you have also been involved in granting to children and young people and various other relationships. For me, there's a big difference between the situations where one actually comes with fresh money to something, and where a system, for example. is described in the direction of something. But just to have said it, from the Right side, we've had concerns about this ever since Langslet's time. In every budget we have raised the issue of whether large state resources for culture are the leaders of cultural life. I have drawn it out in every post I've had. After all, when we have gone too far in government grants, it is because we see that the market is not enough to safeguard the diversity and quality that we want. But when Valgerd Svarstad Haugland's cultural message began with culture having a value in itself, there is also a programme statement in it. And when the Council of State in reply to me in the change of line says that no change in relation to equality or integration or some other such developments comes about by itself, here there has to be a force and a will for it, there has to be political effort and political leadership, so he well describes what is his own position, namely that cultural life is one of the most common instruments, but at least it is an instrument to achieve this political objective. It's not to keep the arm's length distance – as Lund Bergo talked about – it's to lie up against clear leaderships. And then it's just a matter of time before you actually intervene in programming, just because you put a lead on how programming is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e535	I would like to return to the fundamental debate, because it is – next to additions, etc. – which is really the most interesting thing now. In the setting, the Right Party of the Christian People's Party and the Left, that we are now dividing the appropriations for the Cultural Council into major genre posts, ‘represents a significant weakening of the independence of the Norwegian Cultural Council’, and that this ‘centralises power to political bodies, which is unfortunate in relation to the need for a free and independent cultural life’. So it's the general idea that we decide how much we're going to go to literature and how much we're going to go to music. But when you get to the sections of the different appropriations, it says, among other things. that the member of the Committee from the Left also ‘want to extend the purchasing system for literature, in particular with regard to the school libraries’. And on the other hand, ‘Practice-procedure mechanism was established in 2005 [[...]] Under the chapter on music, the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left promote the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to assess a purchasing system for Norwegian children’s music’, etc. The Committee continues under the chapter on music, ‘satisfaction with the continuation of support for the professionalisation of the choir field’, but the members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left ‘consider a further increase in funding for the project for the professionalisation of choirs’. Not enough – The Right Christian People’s Party and the Left believe that the Norwegian Soloist Choir should be ‘lifted out of the grant scheme to free ensembles’ and entered into a permanent post. It is believed that it is a violation of cultural life that the Stortinget determines the distribution between literature and music. That's 100 million. kr should go to literature, and maybe 120 million. kr should go to music, so is an intervention in cultural life. But that the Stortinget decides that the Norwegian Solistkor should be lifted out of the grant scheme for free ensembles, and that the Stortinget should decide that this choir should receive a fixed grant, on the other hand, is a free cultural life – that is completely incomprehensible! I hope the Left, Right and Christian People's Party from this pulpit explains in detail, with concrete sums, how the music support schemes under the Council of Culture should be designed, while, in their opinion, it is wrong for the Storting to decide how much music the Council of Culture should spend on music, generally speaking. It's out of context! And not enough with that: on page 96 of the vote, the majority of the committee – all parties except the Advance Party – is in favour of the establishment of a ski museum in Rindal in More and Romesdal. It is probably very good with a ski museum in Rindal – we are for it, too – but it must be detailed management from Stortinget, to a much greater extent than that of determining the main distribution to the Norwegian Cultural Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e567	It's always fun to hear the rhetoric of the Council of State. Calling it intervention when the Stortinges chooses to give priority differently from what the Government has done is not entirely related – not in my head at least. But that's not why I asked for the word – it was to the representative Gjul, who obviously could not have been present in the hall when I started my post instead. There I explained in detail that the Advance Party does not frustrate cultural life. As long as culture in 2007 goes so far as to laugh and we stay at the 2007 level in the cultural budget, you would probably have the same freedom of choice in 2008 as what you have today, if our alternative budget had been adopted. One shouts wolf, but it is with respect not to report unexpectedly from the government parties in respect of the judgements of the Progress Party. As I also said, all our cuts have been carefully evaluated. When the representative Gjul says that the locals are closed, she assumes that it is the press support for the locals we intend to remove. We're not zeroing the post office for press support. If she had read our alternative budget, she would have seen that we were there cutting 200 million. kr. It's left at approx. 60 million. kr. This means – as the representative Gjul is probably also familiar with – that it is the nationally inclusive newspapers that run away with about. 80 pst. of this pot, which we want to take away press support, so that they have to compete on equal terms with other newspapers that are nationwide and that are doing absolutely well. I hope now that the Workers' Party has also realized that we do not rage Culture-Norway. We've been at the 2007 level for 2008 as well, and I'd say that's no rage at all for Culture-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e581	I would like to highlight two comments in the vote on which the committee is set up, because there are two important areas I did not want to address in my previous post. One is: «The Committee welcomes the work of many museums in the continuation of the museum reform. In this context, the Committee will recognise the role of ABM development in facilitating and driving the process. The Committee takes the view that the museum reform and consolidation work continue according to the intentions set out in the St.meld. [[(1999-2000) (...)]] No 22 and St.meld. [[2003-2004]] No 48 The next committee is concerned, and which is extremely important for SV, are the libraries. The library is an important cultural meeting place in any municipality. They say here: ‘The Committee considers it essential to have a well-functioning library offer and would point out that the library offer is not just a municipal responsibility. Libraries are an important source of reading for children, young people and adults. Libraries have a key role to play in both literature and other art while being an experience centre and a focal point for knowledge and information.’ As far as governance in cultural policy is concerned, it is important for SV to take that debate, and it is important, as the representative of Bergo was involved, to keep the arm's length distance. I would like to challenge the representative of the Progress Party, who compares the policy of the red-green government with the policy of North Korea, to say what is culture for the most people. I'm getting quite provoked. The Progress Party is taking the lead in what most people think is cultural policy. I'd like to get some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e602	I understand that the Council of State is proud of what he has done in terms of cultural appropriations. Therefore, it seems to me all the more strange that he repeatedly uses the opportunity to try to reduce the efforts of his predecessors. Instead, the Council of State should be pleased with the work that good and capable ministers of culture have done before him. He should rather realize that he, as the Council of State, is actually standing on the shoulders of his predecessors. For example, would we have come so far with the construction of a new Norwegian opera if it had not been for former Councillor Anne Enger Lahnstein, as she was then called, and former Councillor Valgerd Svarstad Haugland, who provided the appropriations? We can also include former State Council Åse Kleveland, who had plans for the same thing. What about the ABM bet and the reform that we started when it came to the museums, if it hadn't been for the pastors' initiative? So to the point that has been most central in this debate. I just want to say that of course the Christian People's Party is not against evaluation. Nor are we against audit – not even administrative audit, if there are questions about it. Of course, control should be included. However, this is not what is being discussed here, but the problem of direct political leadership in the use of transfers of funds. I'm going to honestly admit that over the years it's been spending millions of dollars on detailed management of the cultural budgets from this room. I think we all realize that. Many would probably say that it has been granted too much. But something quite different is going as far as meddling in how the different measures will manage them. In the setting, it has been pointed out in several places that there are indications of how to spend this money, and that in this way they send out signals to cultural life that they want to set policy objectives on the activities to be carried out. It's going too far. As for the arm's length principle, which has been mentioned, we're all followers of it. That's exactly what you should be mad at. This means that it is necessary to monitor and monitor the use of the money, but it is not necessary to provide guidance to ensure that those who receive it are unsure whether they have the opportunity to use it for the purpose that the institution or measures in question have for their business. It'll be going beyond the arm's length principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e613	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e616	With a large public cultural budget, there are many demanding balances to go. Here I think there's a need for the Council of State to practice a little bit, because there's a big difference between setting up a new business, big or small, and actually getting involved in the activity of existing business. There is a big difference between wanting to create a ski museum in Rindal and actually putting a lead on how the National Theatre will build up its repertoire, or how the Norwegian Dramatic Festival will find its textual basis, to take the example from the Class Battle. You've been looking for cohesion in the opposition. I think it's actually interesting, and the position should notice that. The opposition stands together in very many of the remarks in the budgetary position. You'll also see that the same thing is going to happen about volunteering. It's going to be about this ideological approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e623	Right-wing representative Olemic Thommes repeated the word diversity many times in his post, and we support it. We also want diversity. That's why it's amazing when there's resources – and the right isn't tricky, they're actually spending more on culture than what we do when we fulfil the cultural promise – that the Right nevertheless finds it reasonable to reduce and get closer to its goal of removing the press support. I find it amazing that it is possible to have the large, high, idealistic objectives of diversity and at the same time to remove the press support. It's like saying that press is not part of Norwegian culture, and that press support will not contribute to diversity. I find it difficult to see that removing or reducing press support will increase diversity in Norway. Then we see that both the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left have suddenly got so much money to drive culture for. How can that be? Our government implements what these parties' cultural politicians would wish they had done in the last period, but as they didn't, because one then had a unified government that prioritised tax laws instead of, for example. culture. We had the same appropriations for culture in the previous period as what we now have - the same in opposition as in position. Then we see that when these parts come in opposition, they suddenly have a lot more available. They have that for two reasons. First of all, because Norway is going down, and we have a lot more tax dollars to use. The second is that the first thing the red-green government did was go back to 2004 levels in terms of taxes. It gives this government 50 billion more dollars to spend in a four-year period. It's not necessarily when you're also going to spend money on culture. So that doesn't mean you have extra tax dollars, that we don't have to make priorities. We still have to make priorities. We don't have money for everything we want, nor does the Right have it. We know that the Right has in its program that they're going to eliminate property taxes. It is ignored in silence in the year's budget. It would mean a further reduction of NOK 10 billion if they were to return to the tax rate they thought was so reasonable in the previous period, another NOK 10 billion. I would like to see Olemic Thommessen's budget with $20 billion less.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e632	First to the representative Lånke that we are on the shoulders of former cultural ministers: of course we are. Fortunately, we didn't start at zero. I simply believe that the representative Lånker is actually pleased that this is a pace change. I think he would have liked the Minister of Finance in the last government to have given his party trap the same support that I experience from my Minister of Finance. And I remember with shared joy the face of the representative Lånke when the cultural budget for 2003 was presented, and it said in the first section of the budget of the Ministry of Culture that this budget did not meet the ambitions of the Ministry of Culture at the time. We got a budget together in 2004, with a significantly better cultural effort, and I actually think that Lånker really believes that it is good that we spend our money on culture instead of on taxation. I think we agree on a lot of those priorities. So to the representative from the right, who here comes up with the idea that we're not going to put the leads. In the budget configuration, there are many leads for different institutions in several sections. You write about, for example, visual art that the majority – including the Right – ‘considers it very important that institutions have children and young people as a priority target group in their dissemination services’. And: ‘It is important for children and young people to have access to and experience of this important area in the cultural field.’ This means focusing your activity on children and young people. So the question is, are institutions going to meet this criterion, have any implications for future budgets? I think so. It must be that if the Storting makes demands, as it is done here, we in the Ministry must follow it up in relation to the institutions for which we have direct management responsibility. Then I have given a challenge that has not yet been answered: how can one in detail think things about different arrangements under the Council of Culture, while one believes it is fundamentally wrong to mean something about the main distribution? Since Skei Grande is going to have the floor for me, I would like to ask concretely: what artistic assessment is that the Left is going in order for Oslo Camerata to have a fixed place on the state budget of 0.8 million. Do you really want to delete this item? Why not have another chamber orchestra or other group instead? Who has made the artistic assessment? Why would the Norwegian Youth Symphony Orchestra need 0.3 million? kr more? Why shouldn't Barratt-Due's orchestra get it instead, for example.? Why is Hauge-Tveitt Jubilee going to get $200,000 more? Why couldn't it be the Wergelands anniversary that was strengthened by 200,000 kroner? More detailed than this, it is simply not possible to get it. I want to hear what artistic evaluations underlie the elections to the Left. Who has made the artistic estimations, and why is this so much higher in principle than to determine the main distribution between music, visual arts and literature under the Council of Culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e645	This may not be easy for the Council of State. The left is not to abdicate in cultural policy, but there are some big differences here that have to be a little easier to understand than that. When we add up with 50 new art scholarships, it's because we want 50 new art scholarships. But we don't decide what artists should make. When we grant 1 million. kr extra to Untrop, it's because we think it's an important body, but we don't decide what newspaper to write. It has a completely different political angle than what fits a liberal heart, but we still think it's important. When we think it's important to bet on a year of diversity, it's because we want to raise the institutions that I've framed, by seven million. kr – but we do not tell which pieces the theatres are going to play. We liberalize, we tend to say that we distinguish between what we don't like and what we want to forbid. Here, there's a difference between going in and adding money in an area, or actually going in and saying what's going to be the repertoire of each, and then punishing from it. It's not based on anything in general either, it's based on a very clear political angle. There's a difference between wanting to have an addition in an area, and actually going in and controlling the angle of the work in that area. That's the actual difference here in the hall. We had a little guess competition about whether Bergo's posts were going to be about the left, and we won. Some reason why we get this problem is the sad fact that we don't have more rich people in this country who contribute more to culture – which is traditional elsewhere in the world. This means that very much of the money comes from the public. It also causes us to have a greater impact on this and to be careful to distinguish between when we should intervene and not. The government is rotating in a very large sphere here. In 2005, the Ministry of Culture’s share was 1.67 pst. of the total budget, and now it's down to 1.59 pst. It's not so super fantastic. But the big difference is the growth of the economy that has come – a growth that our government has also facilitated. Bergo can talk as much as he likes about treasures. In fact, the left's alternative budget also provides for tax relief. It actually gives a big tax shift towards a more environmentally friendly taxing that Bergo would have wanted, if the government had listened to him in terms of the environment. But we are also able to prioritise culture, because the framework and growth of the economy allow it to do so. This growth has been achieved because a good policy was pursued in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e660	We got a challenge from the opposition in this budget, that the fact that the Stortinget is now invited to determine the main distribution under the Norwegian Cultural Council was a centralization of power and an intervention in artistic freedom. Then we answer that challenge by asking how to go around the world in detail from the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left, and think of many small arrangements under the Cultural Council, while it is fundamentally wrong to determine the main distribution between the regions. But we don't get answers! Schei Grande now stood here without saying a single word on this question. I repeat the question to Skei Grande, who has another speaking time: What kind of discretion is the reason why the Left on page 64 of the setting goes in to secure Oslo Camerata operating grants and fixed space on the state budget of NOK 800,000? Why is it absolutely right of the Stortinget to think that Oslo Camerata is going to get 800,000? Not a bad word said about Oslo Camerata. I don't suspect Skei Grande a minute because she'll decide which pieces Oslo Camerata is going to play. But why Oslo Camerata? It's okay, it's a general choice of cultural policy. However, to determine how much is going to be awarded to orchestras in Norway under the music support scheme of the Council of Culture is, in principle, wrong to interfere in. This reasoning simply does not coincide. This has to be answered. In addition, it is not the Council of Culture that has determined the main distribution, it is the Government. We've decided on it in a royal proposition at the Castle on a Friday. And then we say we don't want to decide this anymore, we want the Storting to decide it. Then it is Johan Sverdrup's party that believes that this is better for the king and the civil servants to take care of. It is relatively incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e669	The representative of Stepe Skei Grande has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e672	I understand that this is difficult for the Council of State to understand. I don't know if that means that it's me or the state council that's coming out of this. But I can repeat it once again: it's actually so that we're in favour of cultural policy priorities. We're actually trying to raise different areas. We're happy to do that, and the left has been doing that every year. But what is now done, especially with regard to the Year of Manhood, is that you go into a completely different kind of political governance, where you go into the core of the activity of the individual. We think that's a pretty big principleal difference. The second is that we wanted an overall review of the relationship between the Council of Culture and the Department. We have requested that. We want the Cultural Council to stay at arm's length. Actually, there was an illusion in Norway that we should have two sources of money – something that we really can't do, but that we would have wanted us to be able to do. But the state councils here take shortcuts. The Council of State has no objection in principle to taking full account of the priorities of the institutions. The principal objections have the Left, and we're going to follow them up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e680	No more people have asked for the word for Framework Area 3, Ministry of Culture. We're going to the Border Area 2, Ministry of Children and Gender Equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e685	We have never been closer to the goal of full child care than we have now. The civil parties promised full child care coverage already in the Sem Declaration in 2001, without fulfilling it. Cash support was more important to them. The red-green government has greater ambitions, and by the New Year's Eve full coverage will be a reality in nearly 400 of the country's municipalities. Many newly-baked parents around the country can now sleep well at night without worrying about whether they will have a kindergarten or not. Few municipalities do not reach the goal of full child care coverage. The problem is that it is the large municipalities of Oslo, Bergen and Stavanger that civil politicians have not done their job. Infant parents also in these municipalities deserve to avoid worrying about having a kindergarten or not. The red-green government's bet on kindergartens is historic. From being a good thing for the few, kindergartens have now become an offer to the large majority of children between one and six years of age. Children's playgrounds have never been built at a higher rate, and there has never been more money spent on kindergartens than today. Today there are 43 000 more children in kindergarten than in 2002. In 2008, more than 21 billion DKK will be spent on kindergartens, compared with 11 billion in 2005. In three years the red-green government has doubled the payment to kindergartens. The opposition in the Committee now seems to be at a very high pace, and fears that quality may be at the expense of it. But we can calm them down. However, if we have had a massive expansion of kindergartens in recent years, we have managed to keep the proportion of preschool teachers working in kindergartens up. The fact is that never has it worked as many preschool teachers in kindergartens as they do right now. In addition, a new framework plan for kindergartens has been put in place that focuses more on toys and learning. This helps to increase the quality and content of kindergartens. However, we should not underestimate the fact that 43 000 more children now receive a qualitatively good offer through kindergarten than in 2002. Their options were much worse before this. The working party has such high ambitions on behalf of kindergarten that we believe that quantity does not at all exclude quality. Good quality in kindergarten is important for the red-green government. We want Norwegian children to learn numbers, language and social skills from adults who are trained for it. That is why we are focusing on quality development in kindergarten. Many kindergartens are of high quality and are systematically improving. But the problem is that there are huge differences in quality. It is linked to the economy, staffing and competence of the kindergarten. It is also a major challenge that we lack qualified staff. A good childcare facility depends on a competent and qualified staff. In many places, there is an increasing number of unskilled people entering educational positions, with a derogation. This is particularly a problem in Oslo and Akershus, where there are many kindergarten managers working on exemptions from the education requirement. There is clearly a need to strengthen the recruitment process, so in the summer the Government presented a strategy for recruiting more pre-school teachers. More and more applicants now apply to the preschool teacher’s study, and more preschool teachers will work in kindergarten. The government proposes to increase the number of study places by 125 in next year's budget. Cheaper kindergartens are also a central goal of the Stoltenberg government. The maximum price has been reduced from NOK 2 750 to today NOK 2 330. The kindergarten area has become 30 pst. cheaper than it was under the government of Bondevik. In the next year's budget, we're spending 400 million. NOK to keep the maximum price of NOK 2330. This means in practice NOK 100 in the reduction in the price of kindergarten space. Lower parental pay is important in order for everyone to have access to kindergarten. Reduction in the maximum price has resulted in several parents wanting a place for their children. 84 pst. by all children now in kindergarten. For them over three years, the whole is 93 pst. in kindergarten. It is interesting to note that when parents get the option, most parents choose kindergarten rather than cash support. In a few years, cash support has been reduced from NOK 2.9 billion to an estimate of NOK 1.6 billion for 2008. With a further reduction in the maximum price, even more families will choose kindergarten rather than cash support. This is because kindergarten offers a good and important educational offer to the children. In the vote, the bourgeois parties will have more research into whether kindergarten is really good for the smallest children. By describing kindergarten as an institution, they're told that it would probably be best if the kid had been at home with Mom. For the Workers' Party, the childcare facility for 0–3-year-olds is not a place of storage because parents necessarily have to work. We believe that kindergarten is also important for the very least, both for social training and as a educational developer. In connection with St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, the Stortinget decided to launch a research project following a representative group of children over a long period of time. The size of the population was particularly concerned with the discovery of differences in the development of parental care solutions for children. I think that the right-hand knowledge party in particular should notice that the last PIRLS study says something important. It shows that reading skills for children increase in parallel with the number of years the student has gone to kindergarten, and that those children who have been in kindergarten for more than three years have the best skills. In addition, there is Norwegian research that supported this fact, both for ethnic Norwegian children and for minority language children. We have one of the world's best parental leave schemes. In Norway, it is possible for mothers of young children to be active while having small children. However, the scheme also appears to have several weaknesses – not least because the father quota now acts as a hindrance to a fairer distribution of leave between mother and father. I look forward to the big news about men and equality, where this will be a topic. Another flaw in the system has been that a seafaring trader has not been entitled to parental leave. As from 1 July next year, seafaring traders will be fully entitled to maternity benefits and parental leave. This will not least be important for women entrepreneurs, but at the same time it will also give more fathers the right to the feather quota. In this budget, as in the previous budget of the red-green government, we give priority to children and the family. We're continuing the massive expansion of kindergartens, we're lowering the price of a nursery, we're improving the leave arrangements, and we're taking a further boost to make child protection able to help the children and families who are struggling.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e713	It's with a certain smile about the mouth I listen to the representative Gjul's praise of the kindergartens. It sounds as if it is the Workers' Party that has folded up the sleeves, started the kindergarten expansion and started this reform. And then the story is completely different. We don't have to remind the representative Gjul that there was a Document No. Eight proposals from the SV and the Progress Party, which were the starting point and the start of the large kindergarten agreement. Those of us who have actually followed this process from 2002 onwards do not need to be reminded of who had to files in place. I hardly think that the Workers' Party could have stood on this pulpit today and boasted of the massive kindergarten expansion and the maximum price step 2 – which we had been promised a long time ago, but which is still not in place – if it had not been for the Progress Party and SV's Document No. Eight proposals and all the work that's behind it. And the previous government started that process. So I think it's pretty much bordering on the habit of coming and taking credit for it all. The family policy of the Progress Party is based on several pillars, which together will bring significant social benefits, both in the short and long term. We believe that a safe and secure family will provide safe children. But we also believe enough in the family that we want to give the real freedom of choice and discretion in several areas, whether it be the use of kindergarten or cash support, equality in the distribution of maternity leave, the choice of kindergarten, etc. etc. But the most important thing is the role of parents in their relationship with their children. No matter how much the government parties want it, it says it or will it, never can the public replace neither the belongings of children to their parents, nor the care and love that the vast majority of parents give their children. Therefore, with some concern, the Progress Party notes that government parties are not even critical of having small children in kindergarten. We even heard the representative Gjul say that it was good for children from zero to three years of age to be in kindergarten, and that the reading skills of children who started early in kindergarten were far better than those of children who had not started in kindergarten before they were three years of age. If the representative Gjul had looked at the research going on in the United States, precisely in relation to children who are placed in kindergarten from their infancy, and their concentration ability, I'm sure she would have been a little bit more critical. I find it worrying that government parties do not find it necessary to research those challenges. We had a debate last week on non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens. We were then assured by the state council that there would be no rotation of the kindergarten offer against several public and fewer private kindergartens. It was good and absolutely necessary for a pressed sector to get that insurance. This is important for the Progress Party. The Progress Party believes that non-discrimination between public and private kindergartens ensures the development of both quality and quantity within the sector. With real non-discrimination, all kindergartens will have the motivation to reduce their costs, while focusing on quality. And quality is important, because if you focus on it, kindergarten becomes a place to be where there is enough competence to give the child development opportunities. Unfortunately, although we want to give children safe and good growth conditions, many families are dissolved. In particular, it puts children in a vulnerable and difficult situation. Too many despaired parents, especially fathers, have contacted me, either by telephone or by e-mail, and asked for advice on getting together. Too many children don't get to spend time with both of their parents, because one of them boycotts the right to socialize. This is awfully sad. What kind of adult models do children get when they don't even get to talk to or meet the other one of their parents? I sincerely hope that the Council of State will take a look at this issue, how revenge and bitterness affect the children so that they can actually trace the rest of their lives. That's the kids it's about, and it's not without reason that this is one of the most important paragraphs of the United Nations Children's Convention. So I'm going to do something that you might not be used to on my part -- I'm going to brag by the Government. It's not often the Progress Party does. But now I can do it, and it's about child protection. Finally, it has been recognised that it is most important to help the child where it is, and that placing children in institutions is not the best solution. The progress party has long, for many years, pointed out that if municipal child protection had come early with help at home, many fates would have been avoided. Many former orphans just said that child protection came too late. Now I don't know what's the motive for the Government to turn from institutions to help in homes and foster homes. Perhaps you can see that in the long term this not only provides a better offer, but also has financial consequences. For the Progress Party, economics has not been a factor in this matter, but the child and its best. For us, the goal allocates the means, even though there's some way to go, because there's some assumptions at the bottom. We cannot build up institutional sites until we have a proper and sound offer that replaces the institutional sites. It is fully understood, both in terms of home provision and in terms of the number of foster homes. If we're going to wind up more institutions, we should have a different oversight from what the county is running today, because that means that the municipalities are more responsible for the child, either at home or in the foster home. In this way, we should set up independent child protection supervision – this is not a new tone from us, but the more important it becomes when we do it in this way – that can oversee, and where those who feel that they are being attacked by the public can turn, and where supervision has a responsibility to follow it up. I also have daily telephones in the field of child protection if there is a need for help. Of course, I can't help everyone, but there's obviously a need for help, both from parents and from children. Therefore, the Progress Party is sure that this oversight had been an offer that had relieved both the anger of those involved, and the frustrations of those dealing with these matters. So another thing about the offer in the child protection sector. Fortunately, a single asylum seeker finally came under the protection of children. It is very good that this special measure has been established. But it only applies to those who are under 15 years of age. To me, this seems strange. Now I saw in the evening post today that it is supposed to start taking immediate action. Unfortunately, I have not had time to read the article, because I have had to prepare here, so I can keep my post as if I have not seen it. The Children’s Protection Services Act applies to all children under the age of 18, and it appears strange that an offer has been made to lone asylum seekers under the age of 15. It really means discrimination against a group of children between 15 and 18 years of age, perhaps the most vulnerable of them all, because it is probably in groups of single asylum seekers that we find the children who have been exposed to both trafficking and sexual exploitation. These young people may need the most treatment and care. Therefore, I very much hope that the Council of State will shortly also offer these young people, in line with the proposals contained in the NGOU drawn up by the Children’s Ombudsman and a number of non-governmental organisations. The NGOU is a report that I hope is coming from more, because it gave us all a reason. So we've noticed that the government is moving around on the big city funds, or on the funds of child and youth action in larger urban communities. This concerns the Progress Party. The intention of these funds was to provide an offer to those young people who were outside organised activities. Unfortunately, it seems that the government is right to encourage everyone to participate in organized activities, even though we know that many children and young people, and perhaps especially in larger urban communities, are not comfortable with these activities. The Progress Party will stress the importance of not pushing these children into the big darkness but ensuring that the unorganised also receive an offer. So for equality. It is the view of the Progress Party that public appropriations for gender equality should be phased out. We believe that today's public work against discrimination and for equality is being done on the wrong basis. There is no reasonable requirement for any person to have special measures and in particular the protection of law and/or order, based only on sex, race or sexual preferences. We distance ourselves from public spending large resources on caring for healthy, adults, intelligent and, in many cases, highly educated people's rights. We have full confidence in man's own ability to cope. We have faith that women and men know their needs and rights, and trust that they themselves can care for them through general laws that apply to everyone in the country. In our view, any other way of thinking is an infringement of the individual's integrity and ability to make decisions. The fact that there are many parties in this room who want to continue yesterday's gender equality policy is not least confirmed by the fact that many still have an indispensable belief in gender quotas. We believe that when someone has got a job or a position because of his gender and not because of his qualifications, this is a downgrading of the human being. Consumer policy is also in our areas. It is not free that this topic is under-priority in this room. We'll probably get this at Stortinget, but the government will also take criticism for it. When we compare ourselves with the other Nordic countries, and so far also the rest of Europe, I have no doubt that Norway is the worst consumer policy. The Party considers that the public has an important role, not least by taking responsibility for consumer matters, a responsibility to ensure that consumer rights are respected, and that consumers have bodies to address when it comes to questions. Nevertheless, I would argue that consumers in the rest of Europe are much more conscious of their own role and of their own rights, wishes and demands than in Norway. I would therefore challenge the Council of State whether we have at all thought-out consumer policy in Norway. I could say a lot more, but I think in essence I have said enough. That is why I shall end by referring to our proposals and noting that we will vote against the budget position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e749	The right is based on the fact that the individual, and the individual family, should as far as possible preserve their own well-being and set the agenda for their own lives. The main foundation for contributing to this is a sound economic policy that takes care of households’ finances. Overall, this is about employment, the level of taxation, the level of interest rates — in short, a healthy economic approach. In the modern welfare community, we see that an increasingly large part of our life is linked to public welfare services, not least in the years we have children, and we like to be in a tight time frame. As individuals, and families, we have different needs. A good welfare policy is therefore, in the opinion of the Right, a policy that provides flexible solutions and diversity of supply. In line with this, right-wing family policy is based on the desire for great freedom of choice for families. The right considers welfare services to be a public responsibility, but we have an open approach to whether there are public or private actors to do the work. We often have problems understanding the fear of the government parties for the private actors. The public has all the means of governance and control through legislation, supervisory systems and approval systems, and not least by being a significant – sometimes even the only – buyer of services. The right considers that private providers of public care services are a necessary prerequisite for achieving real diversity. Private actors provide important experience in developing new ways of working, new offers, financial management, new forms of cooperation and perhaps also new ways of organising activities. This does not mean, of course, that public enterprises do not also have the ability to develop, but that means that all activities, public and private, need someone to compare with, some that contribute to larger professional environments and some to gain experience from. In this picture, purely public services tend to become a bit heavy and managed by common reading, generally based on rationalisation considerations. Private actors will also contribute to improving the quality of supply and the breadth of research undertaken through the competition they represent. The right, then, would like to welcome private actors, in kindergarten, in child protection and in a wide range of care services in departments other than those we are going to talk about today. Today's government is working after another course. With an explicit wish that most care services and welfare goods should be run by public actors, it appears with a half-hearted relationship with the private actors. This gives rise to slightly different expressions, depending on which sectors we are talking about – probably also depending on to what extent the government actually depends on the private offerings. As far as our budgets are concerned, it's especially the kindergartens and child protection we're talking about. If we are to take the Government on the word, the private offer to kindergartens seems to be quite ok, while private actors in child protection have no reason to feel especially wanted. If we go a little below the surface, however, we see that the Government also applies to kindergartens, to a greater extent, the grant to the public kindergartens than to the private ones. The right impression is that the government parties are afraid of losing power and influence over the offers, and therefore prefer to keep it all within a clear public, preferably state, control. Right sees that most of us live good and rich lives, with many possibilities of life unfolding. However, we should not lose sight of the groups among us who strive daily to make the ends meet. Where children are affected by the poverty of the family, targeted action needs to be taken, both in the form of emergency measures and in the form of measures that provide opportunities to get out of poverty in the long term, including: through participation in an organised working life. In its alternative budget, the right has focused in particular on poverty. In the area of family life, action is being taken with increased child-responsiveness for families with child-restraints. We see that the need for improved finances is greater in families with four children or more than in those with fewer children. For financial reasons, some children and young people do not have the opportunity to participate in leisure activities. We therefore propose to set up a grant scheme to allow vulnerable families to cover quota costs for children and young people who will take part in leisure activities under the auspices of non-governmental organisations and teams. The introduction of the maximum price into the nursery arrangement has helped to ensure that several municipalities no longer offer income-rated payment in kindergartens. For some families, this has resulted in an increase in child care costs. We will therefore grant funds to reintroduce the income-graded parental payment, and propose 150 million. kr for this purpose. We note that the government in this budget will equal social security rights in pregnancy and childbirth for self-employed women. This proposal was promoted by the Right one year ago, but was then voted down. However, when you choose to introduce the scheme, we are not satisfied that the costs of this scheme are covered by increased payments to the public interest. This is a policy where you give with one hand and take with the other, which the Right does not find to be able to support. We have therefore allocated funds separately for the collection of the scheme. For a long time, the focus of the right has been on child protection, with particular attention being paid to the cases where the state takes over the care of the children. A qualitatively good institutional offer and a good foster home system must characterise Norwegian child protection. It is with concern that we then record that the reluctance against private operators, with the reduction of a number of good private actions, weakens the quality of the offer. We need to ensure a diversity of high-quality offers, and we need to get knowledge of what actions are good, and which ones have wanted to be effective. Today, we see that research resources used in the sector are channelled into the country’s own actions. There is a need to increase research efforts also to cover the supply we find outside the country's own institutions, and the Right is therefore increasing the appropriations for this purpose in our proposal. The government suggests that fewer and fewer children should be placed in institutions, but rather receive provision for foster homes. This might be good. However, the prerequisite for this to be a proper approach is that there is enough foster homes and that foster families have a good response device around them. A foster home to be a home for young people with serious behavioural problems, drug problems and perhaps a criminal scroll has to have a well-developed support device to deal with the challenges they may need. This support apparatus is currently insufficiently developed. Therefore, the right-hand side strongly disagrees with the reduced allocation for the purchase of institutional premises, with the result that institutional provision is reduced before the home provision is able to take over institutional position. It is obvious that children and young people will suffer under such priorities. The right issue in this budget debate is therefore to underline the importance of private actors. We want a clearer commitment to targeted action against poverty and particularly vulnerable groups. And last, but not least: we want a power roof that can get child protection on our feet and give everyone who needs it, a good, relevant offer. This is an consideration that must weigh more heavily than ideological approaches. Here the Government must help to replace a culture of fear with action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e785	The 2008 budget contains important initiatives in various areas covered by the Government's policies and the Soria Moria Declaration. SV is pleased with the government's great bet on kindergartens, and I, who has worked with the kindergarten arrangement and the follow-up of it for almost my entire life, am proud and happy that we now have a government that will fulfill the promise of full kindergarten coverage within a short time. I would like to say to the representative of the Progress Party that I think it is absolutely right that without the historical proposal that the Progress Party and SV promoted together in the previous big-time period, we would not have been there today. This is a major welfare reform, and it is a reform that people want. It is important for children and their development, and it gives both parents the opportunity to work. It is absolutely necessary from an equal opportunities perspective. Kindergartens shall be a arena starting lifelong learning and therefore the content and quality of the Government, and not least the recruitment of qualified personnel, is important. We see in many municipalities that the search for kindergarten places is increasing. This shows that the government's kindergarten policy is a great success. We boasted of the efforts on the cultural budget in the previous debate, where we have a historical increase of over DKK 0.5 billion. The increase that has been added to kindergartens in the last two state budgets is about NOK 7 billion. We have major challenges in child protection. There has been an increase in children in recent years in need of child protection measures. Therefore, the strengthening of child protection by the Government is essential. The reform has been under-budgeted and increased efforts are needed. What is worrying is that an improved municipal economy has not significantly led to increased efforts in municipal child protection. The first line service is particularly important for children to receive help when they need it. We know that the earlier actions are started, the better the results are. The starvation of municipalities from the previous government led to child protection workers in many municipalities saying that it was the economy and not the need to control the measures in the protection of children. This has led to the threshold for granting child protection measures higher than before, and I believe that it has led to many children having bigger and more complex problems when they are finally granted child protection measures. I also believe that we must have a review of the law, which may have led to our intervention too late. SV wants a review of the child protection tendering procedure. We want more children's protection institutions in public ownership, but it is unacceptable to set up institutions as long as children remain unsolicited. At the turn of the year, 122 children were in line for a foster home, and there is therefore also a greater need for foster homes to be recruited. In the context of the remarks on the budget, I would like to stress in particular the comment that it is important that each child be examined individually, that adequate foster home capacity is a prerequisite for an individually adapted approach, and that the closure of institutional places should not be done if this means that children remain unsolicited. Child protection took over responsibility for the so-called minor asylum seeker this month. This is an important victory for SV, which promoted the proposal for the transfer during the previous enlargement period by the undersigned. We have been criticized by the United Nations to discriminate against these children. It is therefore good that we now have a government that does this important act for the most vulnerable children we have in Norway. This government is doing this. It was not the will of the previous government. The establishment of an offer for single minor asylum seekers from 15 to 18 years of age has also begun in five places in the country. I am very pleased with the Council's play-out in the Evening Post today that child protection from today is actually going to investigate all those between the ages of 15 and 18 who are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e804	We have a lot to learn from other cultures about family relationships. An Indian professor wondered about our Western way of raising children. He pointed out that in the West children were raised to become independent of the family. In India the children are raised so that the family can depend on them. This is a cross of thought. In Norway, we are less dependent on each other, but family ties are also weaker. Strong family relationships are important to give children a safe growth, and it is our job as politicians to facilitate family time and space for each other, and not just become transport terminals and hotels. The Christian People's Party has a growth policy that takes account of three important considerations: the need for safe frameworks and time for children with parents, the need for good arrangements for adults to combine work outside the home and care for children, and the need for a financial framework for child protection that enables them to help children who do not receive safe growth within the four walls of the house. These considerations have been taken into account in our alternative budget. A safe growth for all is the goal, but the Christian People's Party says poor first. Poor children don't go on trains for their rights. Nor do children who are subjected to domestic violence or lone minor asylum seekers. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party wants to prioritise these groups. We are disappointed that the government parties did not want to support any of our proposals for changes to the family budget. Children who are poor in money or lack of care deserve to be in line first. This also applies to children growing up in other countries. That's why Christian People's Party spends 458 million. to combat extreme poverty by increasing aid to 1 pst. of GNI. The poor deserve our support both domestically and abroad, because it's fair. In Norway too, many children need social assistance to grow up safely. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed 70 million. kr extra for child protection, and we want to strengthen the scheme of large-scale urban funds that go to disadvantaged children and young people, by 7 million. kr. The Christian People's Party proposes to transfer responsibility for all lone minor asylum seekers to child protection from 1 September 2008. Government parties have gone high on the track in the fight against grandma making an offer. The Christian People's Party supports this. We also do not want to place children on offer, but we want to ensure that everyone has the most stable care situation possible. We promote proposals in which we ask the Government to present a case to limit the possibility for private child protection institutions to make dividends. The Christian People's Party will provide opportunities for kindergarten for anyone who wants it, even if the family has low income. That's why we're giving 25 million priority. kr at income-adjusted rates of parental benefit in kindergartens. We're proposing a total of 102 million to strengthen kindergartens. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. The Christian People's Party will increase the cash support rates to NOK 3657 per person. the month and one-off benefit of 1 G, in order to improve the ability of parents who have not earned parental rights to spend time with their child. Many children want more time with their parents. I do not think the problem is primarily about working mothers. The problem is, not that my mother has gone to work, but that my father has not come home. Therefore, many families of young children feel that they are an understaffed enterprise that screams after conversion. The Christian People's Party believes it is important for the whole family that all fathers can take part in the parental leave. We have submitted comments on increasing the feather quota to ten weeks, and record that the government does not want to confirm its promise from Soria Moria. Obliging parenthood and good cooperation between parents after a break in life are essential for the growth of children. The Christian People's Party has proposed to strengthen family protection by 10 million. kr, which would provide room for increased client treatment as well as means of empowerment. It is important that the Church's family protection is provided with sufficient resources for professional development and empowerment to maintain the distinctive character of the diaconal family protection offices. Finally, I would like to point out a note that makes visible why cooperation between the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party is not life-making. Progress & party writes in configuration: ‘These members consider that it is not a public task not to engage in equal opportunities or measures for special interest groups such as lesbians and gays. These members consider it wrong to establish selective measures for healthy and ready-to-work adults only on the basis of their sexual orientation.’ In other words, as long as homosexuals and lesbians or other groups who experience harassment at school, in the workplace or in the housing market are healthy and employed, there is no need to use public funds to combat discrimination, the Progress Party believes. This is a policy that lies miles from the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party believes that everyone has the same protection against discrimination, regardless of grounds of discrimination, working capacity and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e835	For the Centre Party, it is important to establish a broad perspective in family policy. Good growth conditions are created through the sum of actions that contribute to good, safe and developing communities. The focus on safe school paths is thus as important as the focus on low parental pay in kindergarten, and poverty reduction is as important as family protection. It is therefore essential that we continue to strengthen the ability of municipalities to deal with the important welfare tasks that we impose on them. The centre party, together with the other government parties, is proud of the bet made on kindergartens. Never have so many children gone to kindergarten as they are now, and never have so many new places been built all over the country. The government set itself a high goal, about full child care coverage, and is thus closer to this goal than any other government has been before. But the centre party is not just in terms of quantity. Quantity and quality must go hand in hand as Siamese twins. An active policy of recruiting several pre-school teachers has resulted in a significant increase in the number of graduates and applicants for training. However, we recognise that it is a major challenge to ensure adequate pedagogical density during a period when the number of places increases sharply. High competence is essential in order to comply with the provisions of the Kindergarten Act to be a pedagogical activity. The early childhood is a fundamental part of the lifelong learning and learning cycle, whether children spend much of their time in kindergarten or parents have chosen other care solutions. Children shall be given the opportunity through play and learning to develop and shape their personality and identity. The focus of this government and this majority of population on quality in kindergarten has never been in Norwegian policy before. And I dare remind you that in spite of the highest rhetoric of today's opposition regarding the quality and content of kindergarten, the close story shows a completely different picture and focus. When Davøy’s proposal for childcare law met strong countermeasures in 2004, and as a result was significantly altered before it was submitted to the Stortinget, the focus was on cost efficiency rather than quality that created resistance. In order to ensure a good learning environment for all children in Norway, we need to facilitate the provision of sufficient time for kindergarten workers, but not least parents, to see each child and their needs. This kind of prevention costs, but is in the long run saved money on the repair budgets. We cannot achieve full child care coverage in Norway without private kindergartens, and for the Centre Party it is important to work for economically equivalent relationships between public and private kindergartens. We are pleased that there is full agreement on this in the Government. We would also like to remind you that private kindergartens increased most in number from 2005 to 2006. Without attractive framework conditions, this large-scale development would hardly have happened with the private at the head. That being said, the Central Party believes it is important that the Government continues its work to identify the differences recorded, and we are also satisfied that the County Council is actively used as supervisory authority. A welfare society cannot, and shall not, have, smaller ambitions on behalf of children where society has to take responsibility for the tasks the parents cannot, will or ability to undertake. For the Central Party, it is important that families and children are followed up and helped at home before considering taking the child out of the family. We believe that both the course of life and family protection are important prevention measures. At the same time, it is important that children who are unable to get the best care at home are guaranteed tailor-made alternative care services. For this reason, it is very important for the Central Party that the Government in this budget announces an increase in child protection, including a strengthening of foster home provision and a review to ensure quality aftercare for young people over 18 years of age. In addition, we in the Center Party are concerned that all children should have the right to a safe and predictable life situation. It is therefore promising that the Minister for Children and Gender Equality will inform her that she will review the child protection legislation. We share the minister's desire to put children first and believe, in principle, that competition policy must be subordinate in this area. For the Central Party, it is also essential that we ensure a diversity of good quality child protection offers. Private actions, whether life-view-based or of a different non-profit nature, shall be, and are, today, an important complement to state child protection. We will actively contribute to the organisation of predictable and clear criteria for the operation of child protection institutions, both privately and publicly. I am concerned that all children in Norway should be well cared for. It is therefore gratifying that child protection is now taking over the responsibility of lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 15. This is a major improvement, and there is also more than any other government has done in this area in the past. Then I share the impatience many feel for those who are over 15 years old, but I agree that these should also come under child protection. We are looking forward to this happening as early as 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e858	In the previous debate we had today, one of the themes was diversity, and actually it can also be a topic when we are going to discuss this framework. For the Left, it is important to have an approach that takes people into account that people are different, children are different, parents are different, and problems we face in life are also different. Therefore, it is important to have a wide range of services and an offer that is adapted to each. That doesn't mean it's going to be four on quality and competence. Childhood should be characterized by meeting adults who have both quality and competence in what they do. The kindergarten field is a large field. I think the government should have boasted of getting so many places to build. For the left, it was important, when we went into the nursery agreement, that we prioritised spaces in front of the price. When you're going to get a good one, which I think is actually a nursery place, it's important that you get access to it before you reach the magic $1,500. Now it looks like it could be a long time until you see it. What is also an important aspect, and I think it is nice to read the comments in the vote, is that it has crossed the government parties with the inequality that was introduced in the reform of the maximum price, that it has become more difficult for municipalities to subsidize families with poor advice. The inequality that the parties have encountered in the past on this pulpit, is now beginning to incriminate them as a problem. The left is now starting to worry about the quality of these kindergartens that are being pushed forward at such a great pace. That's why we've prioritised $30 million. kr more for competence development, 10 mill. NOK more for the recruitment of professional staff and SEK 10 million. kr more for research related to kindergartens. That's child protection. I want to first use the chance to say from this pulpit that within this field there are a lot of people doing a very good job. As politicians, we often meet cases where things aren't going well, but there's also a lot going well. There are many who get to turn many lives into a better track. What I'm concerned about is, first of all, that the government is running a clear ideological fight against all private actors in this offer to young people. It's interesting to see how much a socialist government wants to use the market mechanisms to push people out of this offer. The second is that we have to address the challenges of post-protection. After protection on the child protection side, I think we just have to afford to take a lift, if we're going to see the effect of the money and the forces we're investing in to get the kids on track for their lives. Then I have to admit that I'm skeptical of this clock belief that foster homes will solve all the challenges we have. The left has been on this pulpit for 130 years, and we've seen commuters go back and forth. I believe in the fact that clinging to the pendulum when it's extreme is always wrong. We need a wide range of offers for the kids. If you believe that it's just foster homes that solve everything, then you haven't talked to many of the young people who have actually grown up elsewhere, and who have good experience from it. I think we need to have a variation in the offers, and that those offers need to be adapted to those that actually apply, and not adapted to some political wave that says that one or the other is right. I always find it interesting to say something about who it is that is going to say that we have done a bad job in 20 years. Who is it that's going to come out then and tell us exactly that? I would say that control related to foster homes must be much more difficult than control related to institutions. It's a serious thing that also has to come over us when we're discussing just this. So I'm glad we're about to take steps in the case of single, minor asylum seekers, but I think it's important that they are not then exposed to any savings when it comes to appropriations, and that people with competence are going to work with this area. Then there are several things I want to mention, but since I have 20 seconds left, I have to mention ethical consumption.no, which is a consumer portal that I think it is good that the government parties have started moving to get a little more stable support for. Being environmentally friendly consumers is quite important in order to be able to cope with environmentally friendly consumption, even though the Government has not previously had a great deal of understanding of labelling and consumer support in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e884	With this budget, we are taking new, important and proper steps towards Soria Moria. In line with our government statement, we continue to strengthen child protection, we grant self-employed rights to parental leave, we strengthen efforts to combat sexual mutilation and coercion, and, as promised in Soria Moria, we continue to increase the financial support of the children's and youth organisations. With this budget, the Government has increased the appropriations for the protection of the state children with a total of a net of 700 million. kr since we joined. We took over a underbudgeted reform and have given more money on every crossroads to ensure good state child protection. We pass on the twist from institution to foster home and home-based care, providing better tailored services to the children through such a rotation. It's true that we think it's best for children not to live in institutions. At the same time, it is important for me to clarify that each child should be individually assessed and that we will still need institutional settings for those children who cannot be adapted to foster homes. At the same time, we have strengthened the local economy, so that the protection of children in municipalities can also receive more money. ==References== 40,000 children receive assistance from child protection. Skilled employees around the country make Norway’s child protection a professionally good child protection. Child protection consists of public, non-profit and commercial institutions. This has been a lot of discussion over the past few weeks. Let me then once again establish the starting point of the Government and the majority of the population: we want a child protection powered by the public, but supplemented by ideal actors. These play an important role as good partners and key social critics. It is true that we want to reduce the use of commercial institutions, but we are aware that in the foreseeable future we are dependent on them. All private child protection institutions in Norway are approved and we need to ensure good and predictable framework conditions for all private institutions. We want to take advantage of the exemption in the Public Acquisitions Act as far as possible. That is why we have started work on reviewing the legislation and its practice. I have already announced that an action will be to offer the private companies longer contractual periods. Other measures I will come back to. In line with the Soria Moria Declaration, earlier this month child protection took responsibility for lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 15. In parallel with the establishment of Eidsvoll care centre with a capacity of 30 children, the department has begun planning five new care centres for single minor asylum seekers aged 15 to 18. I have noticed the impatience of the majority of the population and will do my utmost to enable us to give the oldest children an offer as soon as possible, also in line with the Soria Moria statement. The government continues the important work on equality between women and men. There are different expressions of lack of equality, and gender equality must take place on a broad front. I am pleased that a joint committee supports the Government's proposal to grant self-employed workers full rights to maternity benefits and parental leave from 1 July next year. The measure can stimulate both women and men to set up their own businesses, but I will not hide the fact that this will be particularly important for women entrepreneurs. At the same time, it will give several fathers the right to a federal quota. It is, for both reasons, an important instrument of equality policy. In line with the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government is strengthening efforts to combat gender and coerciveness by 20 million, respectively. NOK 18 million. kr over our budget. I am pleased that the Committee concludes on these as important areas of activity in the 2008 budget. Both coerciveness and sexual mutilation are abuses and examples of women in particular being kept under patriarchal structures. I will conclude with the voluntary children's and youth organisations, which have a major role to play in children's and youth policy. We are developing a new regulatory framework for basic support for the children’s and youth organisations that will enter into force in 2008. I am pleased that the bulk of the population seems to support the Government's draft budget in this area for 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e910	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e913	I am very pleased with what the Council of State said from the pulpit both in terms of child protection and in terms of minor asylum seekers. But I still have to ask the Council of State if I understood her correctly. We still have many child protection institutions in Norway, and many of them are private. Especially for children with major behavioural problems, it will still be relevant to have institutions. And then I have to ask the council if I understood her correctly, that she said that you should go from private to public institutions – that you should have a turn there. Or did I get it wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e919	No, it's no misunderstanding. There's a large number and a majority government behind that turn, linked to the fact that we want to reduce the use of the commercial actors. At the same time, I would like to stress that what is very important to us is that the children should come first, and that is why we do not want commercial players who are making too much profits, because it comes as a problem when we are going to finance many actions against the children. We want transparency, we want predictability also for the private actors, and that is why I have already made proposals that will help to provide secure frameworks also for the commercial actors on which we are going to become dependent. But rotation is going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e926	The right is very pleased that the Government will introduce equal rights in the event of pregnancy for self-employed persons. It's a proposal that we've been making before, which was properly voted down, but we're happy with the noise, just that's going to be something, so this is excellent. It was also taken up by the Council of State in her posts. So there's a little bit of a but here. When the government is going to pay what this costs, you take it by increasing the payment to the population, and then there's going to be a good account for the government, because then the government actually saves 35 million. kr, because you supply more of the load than you give. My question to the Council of State is: Will the proposal help to strengthen the position of self-employed people, as the system is now being implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e935	We've looked at this ratio. It is a fact that it is exclusively self-employed who do not have children nor do they take out supplementary insurance, who will experience an increase in fees. We've calculated it in more detail, and we've seen that of an income of, for example, This increase will amount to NOK 110000 per year, i.e. at the lower edge of 100 kroner a month. So the increase is very modest. What is important to emphasise is that, unlike previous governments, we have shown action by introducing this system. We have put in place a fully-fledged pension scheme for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e942	Obliging parenthood and good cooperation between parents after a break in life are essential for the growth of a child. The Christian People's Party has proposed to strengthen family protection by 10 million. kr in our alternative budget, for increased treatment of clients and means of empowerment. We have a long tradition of two-track family protection in Norway, good cooperation between public and church offices and respect for each other's peculiarity. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important that the Church's family protection is provided with adequate resources for professional development and empowerment to maintain the distinctive character of the diaconal family protection offices. My question to the Council of State is simple: Is this agreed by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e951	The representative is aware that there are now negotiations to help Christian family protection offices to continue their activities. I hope you understand that I am not going into that issue. We basically agree that we need diversity in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e956	What we in the Left have been concerned about are lone minor asylum seekers. But we've also been concerned that you have to come up with some easy solutions and too little money, so that there are bad solutions for these kids. Now care centres are being opened, and the Council of State announces today's evening post as well. What I'm concerned about is whether the Council of State has a plan for the building of competences within the field of child protection, for precisely these children. Some of them have strong experiences that they have to live with for the rest of their lives. Someone's doing fine, while others need help to do it. What is the Council of State's plan for building skills, so that you can handle this task properly?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e963	We're going to spend a lot of time in 2008 to get to what's just a common desire: to get good care centers that take care of children between 15 and 18 years of age. The question of competence is very central. We will consider both using existing competences and building it up further. But it's really central to taking care of these kids. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e968	I would like to follow up on my previous question a little bit. In the mid-1990s, I was in the county. At that time, the trend was that public child protection institutions should be abolished to a large extent and bet on private ones, because it was more expensive to run public child protection institutions than private ones. So what's the reason why you've reversed this? Is it the case that the opposition has so far had a feeling that the Government is planning to turn child protection institutions more towards the public and have less focus on the private? Is it the case that the Government is now working closely against the socialist project?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e980	It's like we're dealing with the multiples of the population in doing a spin. I would like to stress that you must not have the impression that public institutions are protected from quality and protected from openness. When there are fewer children living in institutions, it is a fact that both private and commercial institutions need to reduce their activities. But the representative is fully aware that in the mid-1990s we saw a violent and unfortunate development in which some actors actually made fat on this care task. That's why the bulk of the population want to rotate, with full transparency and with full predictability and quality for the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e985	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e989	When representatives May Hansen and Øystein Djupedal went to the Progress Party to present a Document No. Eight proposals some years ago, the whole opposition, the whole Storting, was a little bit about a nursery settlement. The end question was of a small revolution. They did all of us who have little children today, a service, and they did a service to society. It was, as I said, the final question of what I would call a little revolution. At the time I was born – at the beginning of the 1970s – I went about. 2 pst. by children in Norway in kindergarten. Today the babysitting coverage is over 82 pst. For children who are three years of age plus, the coverage today is well over 90 pst. The nursery arrangement has been important for many reasons. It has been important in the field of equality policy. During the same period, the participation of women in employment has increased from about 50 %. 45 pst. to be close to 70 pst. It has been important for integration policy, for minority policy in Norway, because it gives one arena to meet others, to train and be on an arena for all, for children with minority backgrounds who do not have the same access to those arenas otherwise. It is also an important employment/working-life policy. Occasionally, a right-wing criticism that child care has been too expensive, or whether we have had any advice. But the crucial question is, were we able to afford to stay? Because we have to the degrees of use of the workforce that the kindergarten reform is helping to free society today. But most importantly, this is – and will continue to be – for the children themselves. For kindergartens today is a good educational offer, with many good preschool teachers, who go through a good education and who can contribute a lot to children in kindergarten. In addition, many other good additions, assistants and others – which we often forget too often – also do a good and important job in kindergartens today. Kindergarten is the area where children meet other children today very much. Kindergartens have replaced the street or playground once for us who never went to kindergarten when we were kids. The kindergarten today is helping to guide the children in the knowledge society and is, in reality, the voluntary beginning of lifelong learning. I noticed that the representative Woldseth sat and smiled under the representative Gjul's post. I also smiled under the representative, Gjul, because I was in complete agreement with the representative, Gjul’s reference to it, after all, well documented the connection between going to kindergarten – and the number of years in kindergarten – and skills and skills within reading, which is so important for one to be able to cope with in every subject, in the workplace, in society, as the adult. I'd like to know what research it might be, as it's referred to here, which says there's a negative or no relationship between going to kindergarten and learning languages, and what research shows that there's a negative relationship between going to kindergarten and getting social skills and being good at dealing with others and just getting a good start in life. For there is now very good evidence that there is a lot to get both knowledgeable and social for children who go to kindergarten. I noticed that the representative Gjul used the Knowledge Party label on the Right. It shall be borne by the representative's own account. But to the extent that Right aims to be a knowledge party, we have to ask ourselves about the years before children come to school, because we know that a significant part of both the social capital we have and human capital is then established. If one has a policy where it's going to be more expensive with kindergarten space, but where we're going to continue to have cash support, which is payment for not going to kindergarten, it will result in fewer childcare facilities, with the early start of learning that it means. Finally, I would like to say that of course I agree that nothing can replace their parents’ responsibilities, whether as caregivers or teachers for their children. Kinderhagen should also not be a competitor, but a supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1006	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1009	I get a little insecure when I hear that a government council that is responsible for our children in kindergarten, responsible for the kindergartens, so uncritically pays tribute to the use of kindergartens, completely without a single question mark. Once we have a reform that includes between 80 and 90 pst. Of our children in large parts of their awake state, you are still not willing to see if it may have disadvantages that children are in kindergarten. Does the council then think of the parents and their bad conscience, or does he think of the children and the children's best and whether it is actually best for the children that they are in kindergarten longer than their parents are at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1016	It is tempting to start by saying that I am also somewhat insecure when I notice that a large party like the Advance Party is so skeptical of the important offer as over 80 pst. Fortunately, Norwegian children can take advantage, and the positive effects that are subsequently very well documented by extensive research in many countries. I would also like to highlight the importance of parents. Of course, parents are the most important caregivers for their children. When we see many of the problems that too many children experience in their childhood, it also has to do with us being parents, not being able to play that role well enough. But parents also play a very important role as – let's call it – teachers for their own children. We know, for example. that children reading with parents have on average better reading skills later. I think kindergarten is a good offer, as the vast majority of Norwegian parents do, because they know it's a good offer, and it's an offer that we're going to make so that even more people can use, and that can be even better than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1023	I am pleased that the Council of State has come to realize that the Right is a knowledge party. One important thing to do when measuring knowledge is to read research critically. I think that the background picture of the importance of kindergartens for the end result at the other end – when you go from a university – is quite complex. For example, we know that there are actually about half of Finnish children who have gone to kindergarten. As you know, the Council of State has a number of longings before it can embellish itself with Finnish results in terms of education in general. But my concern this time is actually on those who can't go to kindergarten. These are the introduction of a maximum price, which in some cases has actually led to an increase in the nursery price. It may particularly affect children with a foreign background. That is why we have been committed to introducing income graded parental and sibling moderation, and have a proposal in the budget on it. My question is whether the Council of State can see that the maximum price policy actually seems to be affecting some families and that there is a need to introduce a system of income modulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1032	I mentioned that the representative Gjul in his post called Right a knowledge party. When one facilitates a policy that does not encourage more children to go to kindergarten, it is at least not revealed that it will lead to more early on getting a taste of increased knowledge, as a definitely gets in kindergarten. When it comes to parental pay, we're in the lucky situation that far more people go to kindergarten, because we're looking down on the price for everyone. In addition, there are a number of municipalities that have income-graded parental payments. Not least, it is common in the largest municipalities. The majority of those who have children in Norway live in municipalities where there is income graded parental payment. There are also a number of other schemes aimed specifically at parents who want to have children in kindergarten and who have low incomes. It is definitely important to go further on that road, and it is the government, with which the representative is probably aware, intend to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1039	I would like to continue to ask the Council of State about income-regulated payment rates. For it is stated in the regulation on parental payment in kindergartens that all municipalities “must” have a system in which they offer families with low paying ability a reduction or a derogation. So it turns out that a majority of the municipalities have flat rates, that is. one pays the same regardless of the ability to pay. Studies show that only 23 pst. of the municipalities – some municipalities are large, but only 23 pst., a quarter of the municipalities – have a payment system for income-adjusted rates. One can discuss whether it is the maximum price – I think it is the maximum price – that has given you a flat payment system. But what's important now is to do as a Christian People's Party. We've prioritised $25 million. kr – it could probably have been more – to put in place schemes to help families with the lowest ability to pay. What concrete is the government going to do to secure everyone? Because it's important not only that many go to kindergarten, but that those who need the most, get space.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1044	I'm completely united in that purpose. Let me start by clarifying a couple of things. Municipalities are not required to provide income-rated parental payments, but moderation and exemption schemes for families with children with the lowest level of payability. And if you look at the number of children, the majority are covered by this, for most major municipalities and the largest cities have such schemes. So, in sum, the number of children covered by these kinds of schemes has increased in recent years. Spaces are another useful tool. But I agree that by putting down the maximum price further and looking at other arrangements, we must continue to go in a direction that makes it possible for more of those with the lowest income to benefit from the provision that the kindergarten is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1053	I notice and am pleased that the new Council of State has a slightly different tone about the importance of kindergartens. Kindergartens are a good thing, especially for the children who are struggling, but it's not a bad thing to be with their parents either. It's an important balance. For the children who are struggling, and as it is a very great advantage to be able to be in kindergarten, it is important to have good professionals. It's been a big expansion of kindergartens. The left is very concerned about the availability of professionals. Now we also see that it opens up that we can use pre-school teachers even further into school. State councils add even more hours to primary school, and then you might be able to suck even more preschool teachers away from kindergarten. Suffering about assistants and others doing a good job, as the council said in its article, it is important that we have good professionals to do a good job in kindergarten. Is the Council not concerned that all these measures in the school sector will take professionals from the important kindergarten sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1062	The proposal that the representative is probably looking for on the possibility of pre-school teachers teaching at school actually requires more stringent qualifications in order to be able to be appointed as a teacher in school for those who have pre-school education than today. So that part of that I don't think we're going to fear. On the other hand, there is a need to do even more than what we already do when it comes to getting more preschool teachers and educators into kindergarten. It's very important. We do a lot – we have our own competence development strategy and a recruitment strategy, and there will be 125 more places to study through this budget in 2008. But this will still be important for years to come. Now we've had a period of very high expansion rates. However, we have been able to keep up when it concerns the number of pre-school teachers. Fortunately, when there is not the same need to expand, it will be somewhat easier to increase the educational density in the years to come. It will be a very important instrument for improving the quality of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1069	I don't give up, nor in research! First, I would like to say that it is an obvious misunderstanding when the Council of State believes that the Progress Party is skeptical of kindergartens. We're not. We were one of the founders of the reform, and we're not skeptical about kindergartens. What we're skeptical about is when you put between 80 and 90 pst. by all Norwegian children entering kindergarten, does not even consider stopping and thinking and researching whether there may be problems with it. I would like to give the Council of State the address of researchers in England, Germany and the United States who are carrying out major research tasks on precisely the issues of concentration and association with their parents. I hope that the Council of State can assess whether he should at least read the research reports that already exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1077	I am very much for research – let me underline it – even when it applies to both content and other aspects of kindergartens. But I have to be allowed to say that it's not like one can get a sense of it here, that we're now running a big experiment with 80-90 pst. by Norwegian children. It is therefore extensive research and extensive experience over many years that we have in Norway and many other countries with regard to kindergartens, and we therefore have a very good basis for saying that it is an important offer – when it is qualitatively good – that has a great significance in different ways for children. At the same time, we need to be aware that the role of parents in relation to own children, whether care or learning, is very important and will be important for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1082	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1085	All children growing up in Norway are entitled to safety, freedom of expression and schooling. Child protection is the safety net of children when, on their own grounds, the family does not have the ability to exercise the rights of children living in Norway. Historically, Norway was at an early stage in confirming the Community’s responsibility for ensuring children’s rights, including: through the Castberg Children's Laws. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and its incorporation into Norwegian legislation is a continuation and an answer to the child’s care challenges in a globalised world. This confirms the Community's responsibility for all children living and staying in Norway, which means that child protection also has new tasks and new problems to solve. There are problems resulting from coercive and sexual harassment, trafficking in human beings, paperless residents and minor asylum seekers. We are pleased that the budget, and the Council of State in its opinions, focus on the pediatric evaluations on these issues, with the natural consequence that child protection assumes responsibility for minor asylum seekers. We are pleased that the Council of State has been fully aware that the best interests of children and children should also be ensured in the face of paperless asylum seekers or immigrants. For a society, it is essential that we provide children and young people with the necessary security and development opportunities. In this way, there is a sign of health when we can sometimes have strong discussions about the development and availability of child protection. That means people care. The social critique is a potential strength that we're going to take with us. However, it is equally important to take into account the positive developments in the field of child protection — about the same. 40000 children receive help, and approximately 700 million. kr more for child protection. State child protection has come a long way in achieving the objective of child protection reform and in getting its organisation and economy in place, and work is being done with the aim of strengthening the competence and recruitment of child protection. However, if national child protection is to work, the first line service of child protection in the municipalities must also work. A flexible chain between the first and second line services is important, with access to individualised instruments. National child protection can only work optimally if municipal child protection also works. It is therefore quite frightening that the Right in its alternative budget cuts transfers to child protection in the municipalities by 70 million. kr. Today, there is a strong increase in children’s protection clients aged 11–13. This may indicate that the first line service is too late. In order to address problems in child rearing conditions and to develop into serious child protection issues, early action is important. Strong shoots between different sectors, between child protection, healthcare, kindergarten, school, PP services, etc., all with their own instruments and budgets, may make it difficult to create a coherent chain of action. We can see that children often become caste balls between different sectors and levels of government and thus do not get the help they need when they need it. I am therefore pleased that the Department clearly states that we want to work to improve the interaction between the different sectors and levels of government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1098	The 2008 budget will continue the powerful work of this government and this majority in relation to gender equality policy. In many areas we have come a long way in gender equality in Norway, but in the same number of areas it is clear that it is still a long way to go before we can say good-bye. The massive bet on kindergartens, with room for everyone who wants it, high quality and low price, is an important equality measure, as well as it's good for kids to go to kindergarten. The same applies to the right to parental leave that we are now introducing for self-employed persons. We have many other important tools and measures for gender equality. But it is also the case that in some areas, we are experiencing gender equality challenges today other than we did before. That's why we need more knowledge. We need more action, and we need more action. Equality does not come about by itself. It requires both will, action and organisation. After the Labour Party and the other government parties took over, we have strengthened gender equality. This will be continued next year. There is still a large difference in the level of pay between women and men. The Equal Pay Commission shall make proposals to do something about it. They should be done with their work during the spring. Then, hopefully, we will have many and good suggestions to make sure that there is a reduced pay gap between women and men. Another important issue in this context is the work on a separate big message about men, roles and gender equality. There's got to be something else. ask questions about what can be done to allow fathers to take greater responsibility for caring for their own children and to take greater responsibility in the family. I'm overconfident that there's a clear link between pay differentials between women and men, and care and family responsibilities. Therefore, the Equal Pay Commission’s proposals will be important for equal pay, but they must also be important for gender equality in the world. In addition to the traditional approach to gender equality, it is very good that the Government has a large gender equality exposure in other areas, not least related to issues of discrimination, whether it relates to discrimination against people with disabilities, different minority groups or others. It is important in gender equality that one has a universal approach to combating discrimination and promoting equality. We need space for all of them because we need all of them. By fighting discrimination, we promote equality. The same is true of lesbians and gays, where the government continues its ambitious policy. It's a equality problem when you get discriminated against on the basis of sexual orientation, or you don't dare stand up because you're afraid of the consequences. It is a clear signal when one sees that the suicide rate for young homosexuals is much higher than what we can find among others. In other words, there is every reason for one to continue with a powerful gay policy. We have to eliminate unfair differences between people who are grounded in sexual orientation. Another important issue that is also about equality, or a lack of equality, is gender mutilation and coercion. We're strengthening the runaways by almost 40 million. kr for the next year to fight against what is a clear violation of human rights, which there is no possibility of defending, and on which there must be an end. We need an action plan that can put a stop to this type of crime in a concrete and effective way. I'm proud of how far we have come in many areas when it comes to equality in Norway, and then I'm very sure that we still have a long way to go, and I'm glad that we're still going to have a lot of work to do in areas that we haven't solved. Therefore, it is good that this is a high priority from the Government's side, and that the Government will continue the important work of a more equal society. In this context, I would say it is sad to see that the Progress Party believes that too much is being done – or to quote what is in the setting on page 32, that ‘ equality work in the public sector should be completed’, as they say. It is clear that if it were up to the Progress Party, we would still have a society where men were out in work, while women were pointing to their place on the kitchen bench. It would have had dramatic consequences, not least for the creation of value and the welfare society that we believe we should have. We wouldn't be in the vicinity of what we see today, if the Progress Party's policy had been implemented. I am therefore pleased that it seems that the other opposition parties also distance themselves from the equality policy – or lack of equality policy – that the Progress Party wants. Where other countries are approaching elections to Norway to see and learn from what we have done in the field of equality, the Progress Party is its policy that we must end this. Some options have not been provided. It's actually pretty serious, and it would have created a completely different society if it had become a reality. In their draft budget, they have, in effect, removed the entire gender equality budget. And there's no alternative, except that one should stay away. The budget for the following year and the issues that the Government has announced will come to the Storting, and the focus that the Council of State has on equality will add up to an active year when it comes to gender equality work. That's enough to offend the Progress Party, but it's to our delight.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1126	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1129	I have to take the word because there were two aspects that I didn't get time for in my first five-minute post. The first concerns the Left's proposal to increase the adoption aid to 1 G. We do that in our alternate budget. We've put in a proposal on that, but it's framework-dependent, so we probably don't get it up to voting, but we want to vote for the Christian People's Party's proposal alternatively. The reason is that we see that society today is doing a lot of work for all those who want to get help from society to have their own children. That's where we like to set up, and that's good. But I think it's just as important to really appreciate those people who are willing to use their lives to take care of children that others have put into the world. That is why we consider it important to increase adoption aid, as we have proposed in a Document No. 8 proposals that have been submitted, where we also suggest that several countries should be included in the scheme, and that one should also lower the red tape requirements that lie there today, and perhaps do other steps to make the bureaucracy in connection with being adoption parents more easily and worthily, and is a signal from society that we appreciate the job adopted by adoption parents. The other thing that I want to raise is about the Centers for Sexually Abused Men. The centre is within the same scheme as the other incestcentra, an 80-20 scheme. The Left has now ensured that the subsidies are increased by the budgetary agreement in the Municipality of Oslo, so that they are doing well in the coming year. But this is a group, which was also taken up in an interpellation debate here in the house, which is surrounded by all the taboo one can imagine in connection with this kind of assault. That is why we in the Left believe it is important that the competences built up in this centre can be used abroad in the country. We would have liked it to have become a national competence centre, a competence centre that could have contributed its knowledge out to the other incest centres, and which would also have made it possible for men who make the heavy choice it is to dry and orc to take the first phone, to be sure that there meet the other men who understand the situation they are in and who know how they should meet. Men and women react differently and have different patterns of action associated with this. The Norwegian state should be very happy that someone has the energy to get the competence that is now built up in this centre. We really should have appreciated the job they have done, and not exposed them to a bit of arbitrary progress party budgeting in the Municipality of Oslo, but made sure that they were a national unit that could contribute with their knowledge beyond the country. We in the Left will ensure that they are saved every year from the budgets we're going to be making in Oslo, but I would have wanted them to have more stability than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1142	To get to grips with the last speech, I want to signal that SV is very much in agreement with what Trine Skei Grande here says. It is very important to focus on men, both incest centres and in relation to the fact that boys and men are actually also subject to abuse. There has been very little progress. We've had interpellation debates about the theme, so it's important to focus on it in the future. That's why it's so important that we now get legislation from crisis centres, which was a proposal from SV in the previous period – now we boast of all the proposals we made in the previous period – that are now out of the way to be consulted, and that we should do something about it. I would like to say in that context that it is also important that the incest centers are legalised, so that you do not get the situation you get in Oslo every year around this. Because it's still that even though we've put in place a funding scheme for our crisis centers there 80 p.m. is state resources, it depends on local authorities setting up centres. That is why I believe that the SV's proposal to legislate the incest centres is also important. So back to single minor asylum seekers. It is quite right, as the Council of State said in its statement, that we are very impatient in the case of minor asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age, and I am very pleased that she is now signaling that she will do her utmost to get the offer in place as soon as possible in 2009, as the majority of people say. And I want to clarify it from the pulpit: we stress that the offer should be put in place as quickly as practicable. Then I would also like to make it clear that we have been quite clear that these children should have an individual assessment of child protection. I am very pleased that the evening post today signals that this is now becoming an immediate measure. This means that in the case of these children, in line with other children in Norway, a study should be carried out and the measures appropriate to them. There may be foster homes or other measures in the protection of children. This does not mean that these children should be placed in five care centres. As far as municipal child protection is concerned, I fully agree with the representative Britt Hildeng that it is incredibly important that we now focus on the first-line service – and the economy. I also believe the law, which says that everything else should be tried, has led to action later than before. That's what child-restraint workers say. That's why we now have so many who are so old before they get action. So I think we also need a review of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1155	I cannot entirely release the Council of State Ramin-Osmundsen in relation to the question of private child protection measures. She has on several occasions now, at the latest in a letter – for which I am so grateful – underlined that there is no change in the price, so we could get the impression for a moment, in the use of private actors, but that it is therefore over time that we are signaling that we will slow down the use of what we call the commercial actors, without making it possible to put a particular good name on what it is in relation to the ideals, which should then be so much better. Let me begin by saying that I believe the Government through such a policy is laying the course towards a lower level of child protection overall. We get a narrower recruitment base, a smaller amount of knowledge, and we're going to get fewer institutions. So to the more acute situation. The problem is that when the government gives such a signal, what are they saying? Well, they say to someone that you're going to use as long as we need you, but a little over time you have to pack the bag and do something else. It is not particularly encouraging about wanting to invest, wanting to hire, wanting to retrain employees – in short, wanting to make a good offer. So when the Council of State talks about having good and predictable framework conditions, I have to say that the signal you're giving is colliding heavily with what you're actually doing. If you don't have a pretty lack of understanding of what predictable framework conditions actually represent. And who are we really talking about when we're talking about these bad commercials? The Council of State has today said that there is a problem with over-profits, and that it is too well paid, and that it is going to get more out of the money through the use of public actors. Firstly, the State is the only purchaser and has all the information on the table, has oversight and authorisation systems. Nevertheless, the Council of State believes that its own office is unable to get a proper price. It's a mistrust of your own office that's pretty rough. In addition, I also have to ask how much the public offers actually cost, because we don't know that. I expect that the Council of State, since she is busy getting more out of the money compared to private actors, will also be busy getting more out of the money compared to public actors. We look forward to the Council of State starting to brief us and get us a good material so that we can understand what the public costs are. It'll be a very interesting exercise in this whole thing. So finally, who are the ideal actors? The center party is talking about some of the non-profit character. In the evening post, the Council of State notes that it is those who do not take dividends. The guidance says that they are owned by NPISHs. It's pretty airy who's the ideals. Then it's equally airy who are the commercials, and we need to get a clarification on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1170	I find that the Council of State in the change of line did not answer my question about research, and that still worries me. He says that there is a sea of research and experience from Norway — yes. He also says that from the end of the 1970s, when it was 2 pst. Child care coverage, and until today, as it is 80-90 pst. Childcare services have been able to gain relatively good experience and competence in this field. I went to kindergarten at the end of the 1950s, and I guess there was a babysitting on some prom. The result you see here, so I guess I don't know if it's recommending, then, to an SV. Governments choose not to listen to foreign experiences, not to foreign research, not to foreign competence. So he goes so far as to say this isn't an experiment. Then I get all the alarm clocks out, because that's not exactly what it is? And how will it be experienced for all the children who haven't been accommodated in kindergarten, who then have to stand outside the fence and look at all this amazing competence, all this amazing educational offer? It must be created losers of that sort. The Council of State also does not link the fact that there have never been more pupils in primary school with behavioural problems and concentration problems, and that in Norway more children than they do now have never been diagnosed with ADHD. Maybe you should look at this in an overall perspective. And maybe we also have to dry to see if it has negative consequences – I'm not saying it has. It may not have negative consequences for children in Norway to be in kindergarten longer than their parents are at work, but at least we have to look at it dry. The question that comes to my mind automatically when the Council of State is not concrete and answers me specifically to this is: Is he afraid of the answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1179	After the excellent defense that the Council of State had of kindergartens, it was almost unnecessary for me to take the floor again. But the representative Woldseth challenged me in her first post, in which she expressed that she was a little offended because the Progress Party was not mentioned in relation to the efforts they have made through the kindergarten agreement and to contribute to full child care coverage. Honor be the Advancement Party for contributing to the kindergarten arrangement. I think many young children's parents can also thank the Progress Party for that today. But we should not underestimate the fact that there was a final request for a kindergarten agreement, because the start was far earlier when it applied to the massive bet on kindergartens. It started under the Grand Governments in the 1980s. What happened afterwards was that we received the cash support, which contributed to the direct stoppage of the children's garden development. Therefore, it was absolutely necessary to put in place a nursery settlement in order to get back into kindergarten development, and it turns out now that we are about to reach a goal in terms of full kindergarten coverage. It is only when we have full childcare coverage that there will be a real freedom of choice for young children's parents, and it also turns out that when parents have a real freedom of choice, they choose kindergarten over cash support. I think the Progress Party gives a very confusing impression as to whether they're in favour of or against the kindergartens. Are they for kindergartens for the smallest children? Because what they're saying is that they're skeptical not least about whether it's good for the smallest children to stay in kindergarten for so long, and whether it's educationally good for them. They refer to American research, such as: shows that this contributes negatively to the concentration of children. That is the opposite of what this PIRLS study has shown. If you're going to master reading, maybe concentration is one of the most important things. The PIRLS study clearly demonstrates that the longer the child has been in kindergarten, the better the child gets to master the reading. But in addition to the research experience with kindergartens, it is also possible to listen a little to the experience of young children’s parents today. I understand that the representative Woldseth has experience with kindergarten from the 1950s, but Kinderhagen has changed considerably since the 1950s and until today. It is a completely different educational offer you get in a kindergarten today, than what you got for just 10–15 years ago. Most young children's parents are impressed by the offer the children get in kindergarten, and not least impressed by the fact that their children master things they had never dreamed of mastering, precisely because they get a stimulus in kindergarten that becomes an important supplement to the stimulus they get at home with their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1188	To the representative of the Left who spoke about the adoption aid of 1 G, I would say that it is right that the proposal amounts to 38 320 kroner. Unfortunately, no room has been found to cover an increase within that budget. I would like to stress that this is not a denial of parents' willingness and desire to adopt children abroad. In the case of the incest centers, I would say that here we have a very good order of 80 pst. State aid and 20 pst. municipal support. What we're going to do is evaluate the scheme during 2008. Then I have to pay tribute to Left's commitment to focusing on men who may be subjected to violence. It is very important that we back it up in the work we are now doing to legislate an emergency offer for help locally – not statutory incest centres per se, but statutory emergency services. We're working on this right now. In the case of lone minors, I just want to repeat that we're making a power cap in relation to these children. There's a lot of impatience. I'm also impatient, and therefore we all turn stones to find good ways to handle not only those who are going to move over to the care centers when that time comes, but also newcomers. We're also looking at what we can do in the interim they're under the responsibility of the Foreign Affairs Directorate. To the right focus on the commercial actors, I just have to say that I register that the Right says that they have been very concerned with child protection for a long time. Maybe that's why we've got a sub-funded reform? Maybe that's why they proposed cutting municipal spending, and that's why they think competition is all right as long as all private players get to go on as before? But we're of the opinion that something has to change. We are of the opinion that we must step up the efforts aimed at child protection. This is why we are taking a number of measures. There is no distrust of our own office, on the contrary. Our agency is going to gain even more competence to deal with the challenges that are. In addition, we are following up and quality assurance our processes, so that we find suitable actors, not only the commercial ones, but also the ideals and the public ones. We know that institution is not good for everyone. Also there we are very concerned about having an individual approach. And we're going to work hard to make sure that the institutions don't rage until we have a sufficient number of foster homes that work well. So I'm notifying a power cap in relation to child protection, but it's also true that we don't want the commercials to have monopoly on that sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1202	The representative of May Hansen has had the word twice before and now gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1205	This government facilitates a family policy that we in SV believe is very good. Giving both parents the opportunity to provide care and work is important. What happened after the cash injection was introduced was that women work more part-time, and men with children work more overtime than men without children. You're back to a family pattern you looked at in the 1950s. Kindergartens are an important step in this way. The fact that we now receive full child care means that families have freedom of choice, and children receive good care. It's not many years since a child could have up to five day mothers in a year, so this is a good grip for children, and it's a start on the lifelong learning that children are going through. This with sibling moderation and income graded rates is the responsibility of the municipality. We said in the agreement that it was important that the municipality maintained its nominal contribution, and that no one should get out worse than before. We did that a lot of times.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1214	I think the kindergarten offer in the 1950s must have our reasonable good. As I said, I never tried the offer myself – in the 1970s. Whether it underscores my points when it comes to the importance of nursery schooling, or the opposite, is judged by others. Then I will again praise the Progress Party, because I think it was important that they were in the kindergarten agreement and the Document No. The 8 that have been mentioned here before. My respect for the Advancement Party's courage in that context is really growing today, when I understand that they think that we're actually in the process of a big, daring experiment in which they feel unsafe. So one has to ask the question: with what courage, and not least with what kind of a foundation is the Progress Party involved in an experiment with Norwegian children in the billions class, as they obviously think it is. So I'm going to try to answer the question, but I'm still a little bit in doubt about what the question is. If the question is whether I am for kindergartens, the answer is yes. If the question is whether I am for more research, the answer is yes. If the question is whether I am also listening to foreign experiences, the answer is yes. I listen very much to the foreign experience when I draw my conclusions. And if the question is whether I'm busy with all those who don't have children's playgrounds today, the answer is definitely yes. So we still have to have a low price and a high rate of expansion. We need an individual right, and we need to look at the supply of those who still don't benefit from the nursery service. And of course, we have to do as it says in the Soria Moria statement, easy to start a cash changeover when we have full babysitting. But if the question is whether I'm skeptical about kindergarten or think it's an experiment, then the answer is no. And I would like to ask you again if I can confirm very clearly from here the following: I believe the Progress Party that kindergarten bet and the 80-90 pst. by children go to kindergarten, is an experiment? Is it the Progress Party's view that the kindergarten bet as it looks today is an experiment? If so, what is the option? Should we have more children who are with day mothers? Or should we have more women and/or men who are at home with their child and who leave the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1225	That's when I wanted to be cloned – or two. It was good to hear that I finally got an answer to my questions to the Council of State. I am very pleased about that, and we will agree, as we did in 2002. The reason I took the floor was because the representative was Gjul's incredibly arrogant approach. Since she has neither knowledge nor knowledge of my experience with kindergartens, I can inform her that, except that I myself was a child in kindergarten, I have had three children in kindergarten, in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. I have also worked in kindergarten in the 1990s, and I now assume that at least it should be clarified. When it comes to confusing signals, we're in the nursery arrangement, but we want to ask questions. It can't be dangerous to ask questions? It has to be completely legitimate when we're doing this big experiment. Because that's what it is when all kids go to kindergarten. Then we also have to be able to dry up research on it, to see if there are any negative consequences and aspects of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1236	Olemic Thommess has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1239	I am pleased that the Council of State Ramin-Osmundsen is notifying child protection initiatives. But I also notice that there are no signs of a change in course, or any answers to the questions we raised in the debate. That means we're on a tough course towards a lower child protection, and that's a pity for them, a little over time. In terms of child protection being an underfunded reform, it is very possible. Then I would like to remember that this government has in the last two years had NOK 130 billion more than the Bondevik government had in its last two years, and that the government should have had ample opportunity to finance this reform. So I think this debate has had a little paradox to think about, and it's the government talking about it having increased child protection efforts by 700 million. At the same time, it has increased the effort for kindergartens by NOK 7 billion – something with whom it needs the most. At the next meeting at Halvorsbøle, when it comes to discussing who needs more money, I think Ramin-Osmundsen has very good cards on his hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1246	It was tempting to answer the Olemic Thommess very simply: we're not going to get a worse child protection. We have more and more indicators that show that we are developing in the right direction, but it is a demanding reform. If we compare kindergarten children and child-restraint children, fortunately, there are more children in need of kindergarten than there are children in need of child-restraint. We have 40,000 children who get different child protection measures today. The numbers are increasing, but less increasing in 2007 than they were before. We try every day to make an effort to give them good action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1253	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox (Fotation, see page 1385 [[Thursday, 13 December]] As has been stated by the President earlier today, the vote on case No. 1st happens only tomorrow, Thursday 13th December.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-12.ana.ud1868e1268	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
