ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e30	Let me begin by commending the proposers for making proposals and thus for bringing up a debate as it has been done here. It has given the Government a good opportunity to explain its policy through the letter sent by Minister of Justice Knut Storberget to the Committee. There are many issues that lie here. If we were to give advice to the opposition -- you have to be very careful about that -- it might be to divide some of these things into smaller issues, so that we get better time. There are many of these things that are so big and fundamental that when you get everything into one case, the debate becomes a little bit more exciting than it could be. I intend to contribute to it continuing to be running, by touching on some of the issues raised in the proposal. The first is, as was also said by the representative of Syversen, that the starting point for the proposal was the relationship between alcohol and violence. For a person who is sometimes in Oslo City for different reasons — and is experienced in other cities — there is no doubt that what the Minister of Justice writes in his letter to the Stortinget, namely that the relationship between alcohol and violence is one of the most clear and documented relationships we have. Many older people often get the impression when they read the papers that it's dangerous in big cities, but the truth is that it's most dangerous if you're quite alcohol-induced and in the wrong place, i.e. you're out with a lot of other alcohol-induced men at the wrong time of day. The question is how we can make the best possible policy. Well, the government has focus and pressure on this, precisely because there are people in the government who are very concerned about seeing the negative consequences of alcohol use. There I find it positive that the proposal is being raised from the Christian People's Party. But I would like to say that as a former city councilman – also the representative of Syversen – I have to admit that the debates that have been the most positive both to ensure awareness and to see the relationship between drug use and crime are precisely the debates that concern the overall drug plans and the alcohol and gift-giving debates. So removing that debate from the local plane and taking it here for us to sit and take action on this front, I don't think it makes sense, just because it has such a strong local commitment. Earlier, when I was young, I thought that gift debates were something you could look at, and like just wanting to move on. But today I see the value of those debates, because now I'm old, precisely because they have a very informative effect. I think it is very good that prevention issues are raised and how best to deal with prevention. In a city like Oslo and a lot of other municipalities, it works very closely, and we see the value of working closely with crime prevention locally. Here, too, the Government has said that they want to continue the work we are doing to prevent crime, both by working on what is being developed in terms of planning work in the municipalities, to ensure that crime prevention is included in all contexts, and by now we are going to have cooperation councils between the police and the municipalities that improve and strengthen the cooperation that is already there. I have to admit that for a while I was concerned about the recruitment of minority youth to the police. But I think the work done, the targeted recruitment work, and the numbers we see from the recordings to the Police College now, are very happy and positive. This shows that when you work on a matter, you also experience results. I've been trusted in Defense, and I've always been a member of the General Protection Service – just to make sure that our defence is representative, that people from the left as well as from the right take part in Defense and serve their duty of protection, because it's important to ensure the democratic anchoring. Similarly, having a police force that represents all the deportations of society, both people who are white in the skin, and people who are not white in the skin, both women and men, is essential for the police to build up the necessary confidence in the long term. I think it's just about presence, local knowledge and knowledge of different environments, and it's about being visible, and visible in many different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e51	I am also very pleased that we have such debates in Stortinget. Let me put it this way: the proposals that have been made by the proposers will focus in the department – whatever the fate here by voting and its likes – on the work we are going to do in the future to prevent better. That's absolutely necessary. In this way I must be allowed to give tribute again to the representative Syversen and his party traps in order to just raise this dimension in this debate. They've done it several times, and it's needed. What I think is good is that over the past six months, we have seen a trend towards a shift in opinion and in the political environment as to how to focus on prevention and how to look at the relationship between drugs and crime. I think that is the case, among other things. comes from the fact that representatives from all parties have actually chosen to take this seriously and bring policy into the commitment policy. It is also gratifying to see that once there are political leaders in both parties and from the Government and elsewhere, as well as the police officers, who just point out these contexts, it is also quickly accepted out in the population, so that both the more everyday and trivial votes on the debate programme and what it may be, suddenly move in our direction. It's very important. That's one of the most important problems we have. That is why I am pleased that these proposals are actually being promoted. It is, as I have said here in Stortinget before, a review of this whole set of rules, especially for reaction, and also adjacent legislation, which makes it topical to bring many good ideas into this work. All in all, this is about turning the prevention debate from being an isolated freedom debate for strong commercial players, where the freedom was defined to be granted, to being allowed to hold on for as long as possible, to become a debate on the freedom of most of us, the freedom to feel security, the freedom not to be exposed to criminal acts, so that one sees that freedom is actually something more than being able to give the yes-stamp to all applications and all commercial desires. In this way, therefore, this is an important debate of principle, and I note that the previous government parties, and to the extent that the civil wing, are relatively small in their approach to this. But at the same time, I must be glad that even in the Right and in the Advancement Party, you are now beginning to accept these relationships. It is – I kept saying – almost as with the relations of the Progress Party with climate research, that you might start to wake up when the Progress Party and the Right in the comments write: ‘These members recognise that increased availability of alcohol and many outlets may be a source of increased concern.’ It may be a mild formulation, but at least it's a good start on what's important, to create more police force in society. If we want to define police force to the point that it's the police along with many other social actors that create security, there's two challenges we have, and we've been in the debate. The first is to make prevention locally more effective. There we can contribute, as we are now doing with this debate. I believe that what the government is doing in terms of police councils, where politicians and the police together can look at the mechanisms that are at stake locally, is important. I believe it is important that we maintain a restrictive drug policy and a restrictive framework, as is also stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, as regards the provisions of the alcohol law, alcohol taxes, questions about the wine monopoly, questions about age limits, advertising bans, etc. In addition, I also ask that we take note of the proposal made by the Government regarding the food industry, which I think is obviously a good start to discover unprofessional actors in this sector. In addition, the Government is also working with the plan part of the Planning and Building Act, which I have said several times, which will give us the opportunity to do so. The second area that is decidedly important, especially here in Oslo, but also elsewhere, is getting the percentage of information and getting the police closer to those who commit criminal acts, a close police force. A close police force is something more than just walking on Karl Johan. I'm very happy that during this year we're getting a recording at the Police College that's record high in number, but it's also record high in how many of the minorities are represented. That's 29 pieces. This is a step forward from, for example: Five years ago when we took up 240 pieces, of which there were four with a minority background. So it's going forward, and I think that's the result of recording the clear political signals that I think it's definitely important that there is broad cross-political consensus, as far as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e69	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e72	There was a lot of positive government here, although it's part of what I don't quite agree with. Many of the points we agree with, and some of them we don't agree with. The Councils of State included: in case of alcohol intoxication. He goes, as some representatives, strongly towards the restaurants, there are too many restaurants, and that's where the problems lie. That's where you want to go in and be more stringent, and you want to close a number of checkpoints. You also want previous closures. Now a new study shows that wine monopoly sales are also responsible for much of this problem. They sell, among other things, to minors. What will the Council of State do with the monopoly of wine, which is in a state monopoly situation? Why don't the Council of State intervene and take the authorization from sales or close them for as many months as you do with the tipping points?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e81	Now it's not like I'm allowed to withdraw donations. It's a local responsibility. It is also not my responsibility to withdraw any authorization for the Vinmonopolet, and I do not think there is any solution either. I can use the argument of the Advance Party in the case of the Wine Monopoly. There are some steps on the way before funding is taken away from such an important social institution as the Vinmonopolet, which has contributed to so much drug prevention, helped to alleviate so much suffering in the population, so much crime, so some of the most unwise thing we do is to rock this institution. This does not mean that the wine monopoly must not also follow the rules that apply. I am convinced that my colleague, the Minister for Health, is addressing the conditions surrounding the Vinmonopolet so that the age rules are followed even by the wine monopoly sales. It is particularly important to maintain its legitimacy, but of course also to prevent minors from getting drugs. So I hope that the Advance Party will be equally active in helping to do something about the private part of the alcohol industry, and not just the wine monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e88	There has been a very broad consensus on bets on near-police. Nevertheless, the situation in Oslo is that the police have been forced there to shut down police posts in several parts of the city. It means a more absent police force and a less active means of prevention. The Council of State was in its intervention concerned that one had to be closer, and we needed more polit power. I mean the state councils with the $30 million. enough to occupy half of the vacancies available only in Oslo, that the repair in the revised is sufficient both to combat organised crime and to a credible close-up police service with a focus on prevention work? When can the Oslo Police expect to have a budget that means they can hire people in all the nearly 200 job vacancies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e95	It is strange to hear the Right's argument here, because it is not right, as the representative's colleague also said before, that we are the ones who have cut the budgets of the Oslo police. We've given an increase since we got into the government offices. The cut that was there was from the previous government. In the case of police posts, I listen with great interest to the argumentation. As far as I know, it was in 2003 and 2004 that these police posts were removed. Then there's an uplifting case on Oslo S that's come in later. We still have ambitions to be in operation. So to the extent that it is necessary to ask why these police posts have been closed, you have to address the question to those who were responsible at the time. What we're aiming at with our policing plan for the police in general and also for the Oslo police – I think it's a significant amount of Oslo police now get – is just that you have to be able to fill the posts so you can get more policemen out in the streets. So it's crucial in this that we don't actually have enough trained police officers. It also has to be the responsibility of previous governments, when you have had as low a recording as you have had, because we depend on getting skills out and not just money, which does not reach any people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e104	The last year of the Bondevik government's presentation of its budget includes the history of the transfer of tasks to other agencies as well. - That's what they say. But I will draw the attention of the Council of State to what he writes in his letter to the Committee: ‘Both the Minister of Health and Welfare and I are committed to preventing the sale and donation of alcoholic beverages to minors.’ So for approx. Two weeks ago, we received a survey from Sirus showing that there was more talk of selling alcohol to minors at both the Vinmonopolet, which Nistad had in mind. The Council of State also says that he and the Minister of Health and Welfare will look into current measures to improve the effectiveness of the control of the exercise of grant appropriations. When can we see the result of such an assessment? Does the Council have any idea of what such an assessment will contain?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e118	Before I became active in politics, I have been very involved in this issue, especially about minors who get to buy alcohol. So I have followed the provocation debate around this quite carefully. It is quite obvious that one of the most important sources of alcohol and alcohol for those under 16, 17 and 18 years of age is the grocery stores, and unfortunately, as the study also showed, many of them are also bought at the Wine Monopoly. I believe it is certainly important that we have simple procedures in order to be able to withdraw grants, that it can go faster, and that perhaps more than today – that is something I have to look at together with the Minister for Health – we can address the question of procedures that also help to make it easier to close places than today. There is a possibility of that today too, but it seems that it is too little used. You can close places in a shorter time, so you feel that there is a reaction that comes when there has been an infringement. So I think that one of the most important things to do, and it's local politics, is to make sure that competition doesn't get so hard, that it doesn't get so many places, so that you just ignore such rules because competition is too hard. Then you have to limit the number of places and probably also the opening hours.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e129	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e135	Providing social security is a welfare issue and a major public responsibility. This responsibility is shared by many agencies in our three levels of government. I believe that the greatest potential for more urban security will be to coordinate total resource use. It is today that we spend a lot of money in different contexts that affect security from a broad perspective. One of the challenges is that the various government or municipal agencies or projects are quickly given a detailed perspective, naturally enough, so that you lose sight of what other agencies are doing. It is in this area that I believe that we politicians must be able to establish good cooperation forums, so that we can coordinate the total use of resources. This was also the background for us going in last year to establish police councils in all the municipalities of the country. The idea is that the police council should become the satellite that manages to have an overview, not only of where the effort is most needed, but also of where the efforts are put from the various agencies today. Here we have a good piece of work ahead of us. That's also how politicians can make rice for themselves. It has been known for generations that more filling leads to more trouble and that more availability of alcohol leads to more filling. In Oslo, since 1980, the number of donations to spirits has doubled. There should be no surprise to Oslo's politicians that there has been an increase in violence in the centre. It will therefore also be too easy for the same politicians to call for more police when it happens. The proposers have raised 16 specific points in their proposal. Many of them are good, some of them you've worked with for a while already, like for example. that the police are to be measured on the proactive work. Some of the suggestions I think may be less good. I'm going to add a few short comments to two of those points. Point 7 of the vote, where the proposers propose that when someone loses the grant, it should also apply to the room from which it is offered. This proposal has some consequences that I think are unfortunate. Firstly, it is the authorisation holder and the company that he or she owns or represents, who is granted the grant and with that obligation – and no one else. Secondly, this proposal will quickly have very unfortunate and unreasonable consequences for the interests of third parties. Many of the tipping points in Norway are probably in rented premises where the lessor has just based himself on the fact that it should be a tipping point or a restaurant. A lessor will have limited opportunities to prevent the lessee from doing anything unlawful, and it would therefore be unreasonable for the lessor to receive financial penalties against him. Now I see the time running, so I'm going to jump to my final score – that's a personal consideration. I believe that much of the insecurity that many people feel comes as a result of how we express ourselves in the media. I believe that we should try to communicate reality as properly as possible, and that we all share a shared responsibility for this. We have to be careful to maximize reality in crisis, whether you're elected to the police or you're sitting on the Stortinget, because it has to serve something. We must not forget that after all, we live in a relatively safe country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e156	The Christian People's Party is concerned with the relationship between alcohol and violence. An increase in the average alcohol consumption of 1 litre of alcohol per year. per capita According to a 2007 study from SIRUS, an increase in the rate of violence of 8 p.m. On average, every 15-year-old person drank more than 6.5 litres of pure alcohol in 2006, according to the SSB. It's an increase of 1.4 pst. from 2005. These figures do not include home-produced alcohol, contraband or tourist imports. In recent years, total alcohol consumption recorded has increased by 30 pst. Alcohol consumption and availability have never been higher. All research shows that this also increases the damage. In this context, it is especially about the damage you can get from being full, and the damage that a full person can cause to others. There is therefore a need for action to limit these damage. That is also why the Christian People’s Party has promoted this proposal on urban security. I also allow myself from the pulpit today to demand the government's long announced escalating plan for the drug field. It is now six months late, and in a situation of increased alcohol use and increased violence in our society, it is not acceptable. The Christian People's Party has clear expectations of the escalating plan for the drug field. The provision of treatment to drug addicts needs to be strengthened, and cooperation between treatment institutions and municipalities needs to improve. Individual planning is an important tool to ensure holistic treatment. In particular, it is important to facilitate good back protection in the municipality once the treatment has been completed. Housing, work, networking of family and friends is a prerequisite for success and thus being able to live a life of independence and worth. Furthermore, the role of private, non-profit institutions needs to be clarified, as concluded in the evaluation of drug reform. Noise prevention measures, particularly among children and young people, which were also addressed by the Council of State, and early intervention against children and young people must be emphasised in the escalation plan. I sincerely hope that the escalation plan will come soon. Nothing would be better than if any of the proposals from today's debate could be included in this plan, both the proposals made by the proposers and many of the good proposals made by the Committee. Finally, a brief comment to the representative Heikki Holmås: there are many opportunities for local policy-making in our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e171	It is always good to have a good and broad debate on different societal challenges, and on how to deal with them, even if we do not necessarily share the solution that exists. I'll give the proposers some credit for that. I also think that the committee has given feedback in a good way. This is local policy for good and good. We're approaching a two-way game in September, and I assume that, among other things. these themes will be affected there. Then I have to say that I am fascinated by the representative of Breen from the Workers' Party in terms of the police council. I think it is very good that the Workers' Party has now turned around and supported it. In the last period they voted against it twice. Now they've turned around and they think it's a good tool. Of course, we appreciate that. It is admirable and reasonable. So to the Council of State, which I'm also fascinated by. After hearing the Council of State, one would believe that one was less drunk by alcohol purchased at the Vinmonopolet than elsewhere. I've lived in some small places, and I realized that even though it was far to the nearest tipping point, if it was even far to the nearest wine monopoly, people were reasonably customsy sometimes. I don't think it had anything to do with height and climate, but actually with the consumption of alcohol. I also think it's a fact that whether we like it or not, alcohol is part of our society. What worries us is probably not the use, but the abuse. Well, that's probably most of what we're dealing with. The use shall be carried out in a proper manner. It's the concern about abuse that I think is the most important thing. So to a topic that no one has touched, but which I believe is important, and on which I challenge the Council of State. I have come to realize that some municipalities have actually tried to take away some of the grant, but they have had a problem – there are threats of redress, this is about non-discrimination. So it's a dilemma where some municipalities simply, I think, feel that chess is full of different market forces and actually through previous case-law. It must mean that if we're going to have a system where gift granting is easy to get and easy to lose, and today's case law isn't like that, we have to look at whether the law is good enough, or whether we should have a tightening that actually gives local self-government the access you actually want to have, to withdraw for a shorter or longer period of time an appropriation if there is documented abuse. Then it should be that it should be done on the basis of the event that is the cause of whether or not to withdraw it, i.e. not a fear that a municipality may incur liability afterwards, because then we end up with a party holding a lot more cards on hand than the municipality itself does. Then we don't have a balance between what we want and what we have the opportunity to achieve. I will again challenge the Council of State whether the law actually makes it easy for the municipalities today to withdraw a grant, or whether there are things in the law that we should definitely look at in order to strengthen that opportunity, so that the municipalities can actually do what we all really think and want them to do in some context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e188	I have a great sense for the State Council of Storberget, especially when he doesn't owe others. But I think the Council of State should be very happy that he did not inherit the representative of Storberget's police budget, especially for Oslo, because then the sweat in the hall would not only be sweat because of heat, but cold sweat because of lack of money. I'm not going to repeat it anymore, because we stand for the wholes we stand for, both in position and in opposition. Right now we're happy that there's been some more money, and then there's going to be an honest competition about how to do the best. I think maybe one of the most important things – to send a constructive thought again, as I did instead – is to make sure that it is the status and position to work with the kind of work that we are talking about here today, and that I feel that there has been a strong pressure in the hall. Everyone knows that when there's such a pressure, it means something. For the sake of order: in three out of four possible budgets in the previous period of enlargement of the Bondevik II government, admission to the Police College was increased — in 2004, 2005 and 2006. Then, in connection with the police role announcement, a proposal was submitted for a Norwegian police crew plan. It was presented in the main hall of the Left. It was dealt with last summer, and was unanimously adopted. So it's not like no one's come up with the idea before, but we've come up with the idea together. I think we might have it in common with us who are sitting here, at least I think the sitting state council and I have it in common, that we don't necessarily love all kinds of surveillance. We prefer warm people and warm hands. Then it's very important how we can get these warm people and these warm hands to be there when they're needed. So I would like to ask the Council of State to consider how he can make sure that he strengthens the status, especially in Oslo, when it comes to being on the street. There is no simple answer to that, but that's exactly why I said it. It is also true, as has been said earlier in this debate, that when we have tried to do something in Norway, for example. By making sure that children and young people get a new chance, we can do it. So, finally, a reflection on what the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen said about legal competence. Without comparison – there are thus southern municipalities that combine their competence when it comes to Supreme Law lawyers and their like from the capital and have to argue about who is going to buy what in the archipelago. There is something about local authority competence, and if the legal competence is not good enough somewhere, it is possible to create inter-municipal structures to build that competence. I believe that what Mr Ellingsen's representative addressed here is that the legal power is distorted – for example. be played off the track if someone comes to you badly — fortunately there are also municipal anti-politics. And since we're going to a local election game, it's okay to make collaboration solutions that make you more -- you can follow the Vømmöl Spellman team, which says that you don't weigh that much, but together you weigh quite a lot of tons -- especially if you first agree. I can also end with Vømmeel: 'It's time to get the sail!' We just have to draw it together, and since this is a socialist song, I thought it would delight the hall to cross-politically that I quote it this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e201	Now it wasn't I who wanted it to be a debate about what happened last year, but the government can't sit and listen to every time we're accused that it's us who cut the Oslo budget. Then we have to protest, because we're not doing it. Then I understand that you have to look all the way back to when the government parties were in opposition, to find bad news. I disagree with that, but it's now saying its own. All the time that this government has actually chosen to give priority to the Oslo budget, with an increase in 2006 compared to 2007, with reprisals, extra appropriations in relation to NATO meetings, extra appropriations in relation to the foreign work done by the Oslo police, and now also revised national budgets, and starting to rise to between 50 and 100 million. In the course of a year and a half, it becomes strange that we have to hear that it is we who cut the Oslo police budget. That's not right. At the same time, efforts have been made to put in place a crew plan, an overview of the situation and what the need will be in the future. At the same time, this government has also made a very large investment to get a new emergency network for the Oslo Police, which we have then received into the budgets. We've been in the high school police department several times. So that's the highest since 1998. There's something that will also benefit the Oslo Police, so here are several elements that contribute to this. I have no better answer to Dørum's question about bringing the police into the streets than that we actually have to train more policemen and put the police in Oslo both organisationally, humanly and economically – including in terms of equipment – to be able to be close to the population. And I think that's exactly what the government is doing. So I just want to say to the representative Ellingen, in terms of the more legal points, that there are, to some extent, no points, but there are legal framework conditions in order to be able to obtain a grant of gift. I fully agree with the representative Dørum that there is a need for more competence and strength in the municipalities to resist strong commercial interests. I myself have gone through all the Supreme Court cases from 1900 to 2000 about withdrawing donations. There are very few cases in which the courts override such decisions, which are only exceptional. It is the discretion of the administration that applies, and it is only in cases where there is incalculable discrimination, or where there is the victim of a random or unreasonable decision, that the Court of Justice may set aside the free discretion of the administration. It is a myth that has spread that it is not possible to use the policy in this area. That's what we have to stop, but at the same time I feel that there are some political forces that have contributed to that myth, and that's why it's good that this is now going to travel from the Progress Party, because I feel that in many ways it's also cleaning up a little in my own row.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e214	Some representatives have said that you don't have to worry too much, and there are probably some who will claim that the Christian People's Party has a tendency to worry too much too often. Our starting point was a strong concern from Oslo's chief of police, and then we think that with good reason we can be a little concerned also by the Christian People's Party about the combination of violence and alcohol – but now let it go. I appreciate the debate. There has been agreement on prevention work, close-up police and healthy competition conditions between these centres, and when the Minister of Justice, together with the Minister of Health and Welfare, will look into current measures to improve the effectiveness of the control of grant payments, he has actually got an overall increase behind him today to say that there will be reactions. They shall be effective and shall be marked.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e221	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e224	I have history as a subject. Then I learned source criticism, so for the sake of order: Emergency nets were Roman decisions in the 2005 budget. The first appropriations were entered in the budget for 2006. It has taken some time to put it in place later – I think I have had factual reasons, no one has obstructed it – but I am happy that it has continued. I am also pleased that this is part of the Soria Moria declaration. Let me say the following: I was asked by workers' party representatives before the 2005 election if we would trick them and not put the money into the budget. I said that the money should be in the budget, because it was a nationally important matter. So for the footnote in historiography, it was necessary to say this also from the pulpit of the Storting today, and I might not do it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e231	It was the posts of the Council of State that made me take the floor. We can probably have a lot of numerousxers up here, but it's a fact that it's the previous government, with the Right, who in the last five years has allocated the most money to the police, compared to the Workers' Party. But that wasn't the most important thing I should mention. The important thing that the Council of State was about is the lack of personnel in the police, that is. that we have more police tasks than what we see today that we have heads to actually do. Then it becomes quite strange that a number of types of tasks that the police could give to others, for example. the transport of prisoners to and from the courts, etc., are the first projects to which this government goes and stops. It binds policemen to tasks that others could have done to their advantage, and it removes policemen from being able to carry out an active prevention and investigation. I think that's actually a paradox in the situation we're in, where we actually needed policemen to concentrate on what was really important police tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e238	Since we were in the area of history writing, I would like the following to be included in the minutes of this meeting. The right continues to repeat that they have allocated more money to the police than the current government does. Then we are signaled that we have cut in relation to what the Right did in the previous government. That's not right. One can discuss the amount of money and whether one is satisfied with the growth, but we have increased the appropriations for the police in the country since we entered the government offices. I tried instead to point out that by every crossroad we have also increased the budgets in Oslo. And then you get the right answer for your budgets. But our budgets have actually been higher than the budgets on which the Right was included. So you can no longer tell the voters against the elections that the current government has cut the police budgets. The discussion that I think we should definitely take is how much need is. It's interesting from two points of view. The first is, of course, that the previous government trained for a few policemen, so we had to have the recording we had in the fall. We have to have an appropriate amount of money out to the police so that we can employ vacant police officers. I'm not interested in running some sort of pingpong with the police districts, where we take policemen into Oslo, and then we need more in More and Romesdal, or in Northernland for that matter. I want more policemen more places in the country. The second dimension in this is, of course, the equipment situation of the police, which has increased significantly during the same period. Major expenditure is phased into our budgets, among other things. to emergency networks. I am fully aware that there are several governments that have worked on that project. But at least it makes it impossible to discredit this government because it does not address these important questions for the Norwegian police. Then, as a third element, I must also say that the debate that was raised and especially manifested in the media this weekend on how the Norwegian police are organized and how they do their work is a debate that at least the Government is going to take the most seriously. The discussion on manning is important. The discussion that we now get about DNA becomes important in terms of organization. But the debate on the elements that are being brought forward on cooperation between police districts, on cooperation in the districts, on the flow of information and on the possibility, as the representative of Dørum has been involved several times, to get policemen out in the streets and give it status, I think, will give far more police force than we in this room discuss who reaches the highest on the crown barometer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e251	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3488]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e267	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e276	The establishment of Holden Prison with 251 new prison sites is an extremely important measure in resolving the queue and improving the content of the settlement, and in order to resolve the interim measures such as: double and forward release. For the period 2006–07, 316 new prison sites have been set up. For the treatment of Ot.prp. No 31 for 2006-2007 later today, legislative changes are likely to be adopted to allow for increased use of alternative forms of criminal enforcement. The Committee agrees to ensure the progress of the Halden prison. It is important not to stop building now. This would be unfortunate for the development of reconciliation cows. The remuneration queue has been reduced by nearly 500 judges since the turn of the year and was on 22 May to some 2,000 judges. The working party and SV believe that this is a very positive development, which shows that the measures taken by the Government have worked. The Committee agrees that the increase in costs is due to the market situation in the construction sector. The Committee further points out that there is already a cost revision of the project, so that the potential for an additional cost element is very low. It is very gratifying that, after the proposed changes, the establishment of a visitor’s apartment will take place. The visiting apartment is specifically aimed at prisoners with children. It's important both for the kids and for the prisoner. It is on the basis of good experience with such apartments that this has now been implemented as part of the project. The Committee has noted that the need for funds in 2007 remains unchanged, but the need for 2008, 2009 and 2010 will be higher than previously foreseen. The Committee will ask the Government to return to this in its annual budgetary proposals. The Committee thus supports the Government’s proposal to increase the cost framework by 278,8 million. DKK 1.4 billion, to ensure the progress of Halden prison, and to allow prison to be completed in April 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e293	The case of Halden prison, which we are dealing with today, is okay. Among other things, construction prices go up, that's something we have to live with, and that's something we just have to take note of. But what's important is that the government is now following up with the appropriations in its budget already until the fall, so that there is enough money, so Halden prison becomes a reality quite quickly. That's when it has to be followed up, until the prison is finished and we get the first prisoners in place. But when that is said, I would say that the government must not just lean back and say that we have now had enough capacity in Norway – because that is easy! The development elsewhere in the country must be followed up. Even though we have now finished this one matter, this must be followed up, so that we finally get rid of all these famous queues that we have worn out for all years. In addition, it must be borne in mind that if any money is now allocated to a new prison, it must not go beyond the lag we have on refurbishment and maintenance. There is just over 1 billion kroner — if there is no more — this lag on both refurbishment and maintenance at the existing prisons. It's a pretty astronomical number, and it would be an easy thought or idea for the government to just put some money there and then spend it on a new prison. So we hope that it'll now be time for this, that the money will come, and that the prison will be opened and finished until the time that was actually planned.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e302	The work on Halden Prison was initiated under the previous government in recognition of the need for more closed places to deal with an increasing number of judges, but also because we have a crime trend towards more serious crime with greater security requirements for our prisons. These are good times for the construction industry and correspondingly less good economic times for people to build, whether in private or in public. It is not, therefore, like any bomb on any of us that the cost and management framework for Halden prison does not last. At present, there is more to the rule than the exception in construction matters. The need for Halden prison is beyond doubt. It is also very reasonable that the government is now putting a visitor’s apartment in a new modern prison. You can well reflect on it and say that there must have been almost a small accident at work that such an important measure was not in place in the original project. The Committee has therefore unanimously agreed with the Government’s recommendation, which provides for an increased estimate of costs so that the prison can be realised as planned, even though I have noticed that there is a six-month delay in relation to the original plans, when it is not operational until spring 2010. After all, it may be a bit fun to put on the comment that it is very likely that there will be a third Minister of Justice who will open the prison. So it takes so long to build prisons in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e313	There is no doubt that the government has high ambitions for criminal justice, and the Halden prison is one of our major projects. Already in this year's budget, we have invested over 100 million. NOK 134 million. kr, which has been adjusted downwards due to the process. But of course, the government has chosen to put the money on the table to follow its plan. To the extent that there is one government that plans, one that delivers, and maybe a third that opens, we get to live with it, if it does. In the Soria Moria Declaration, government parties promised to draw up a plan to wind up the reconciliation queue, build more prisons and strengthen the content of the settlement. We have followed this up through both plans and concrete actions. We presented the concrete plan ‘Responsive response – action against queues and for better housing content’ last year, 2006. With the Odelstingen discussion later this evening, all the proposals have been followed up, both in terms of appropriations and in terms of law. That is also why we see today that the housing queue is below 1900, and according to the forecasts, it is going to be further reduced. We're about to do the job. The government is therefore very concerned that we have completed the construction project in Halden. In 2006 and 2007, we have strengthened the allocation to the criminal justice system by approx. 450 million. kr. For this money, we establish, among other things, 316 new prison places in addition to those in Halden. That's something more than the 250's we promised. We're strengthening the school offer. During this year, school services will be developed in all Norwegian prisons where appropriate. The provision of health and culture to prisoners is also strengthened. Prisons are to be established with 251 prisons, and it is part of the Government's plan to terminate the pay queue and improve the content of the settlement. It'll be a bearer in future criminal custody. It is an important prison, because it will help to increase the long-term prison capacity in prison so that temporary measures can be phased out. We aim to abolish interim measures, such as forward release and duplication, and to normalise prison investment as soon as the settlement queue has been removed. High priority in this context is to get something done with the doubling. In addition, prison is important because it contributes to high-security prisons and detention centres in the eastern region, where there is a great need to increase this type of prison capacity. Prison can become a transitory prison in terms of the content of the settlement. A modern prison is being built with a very high quality offer in both school, health and culture, as well as recreational services for prisoners. We know how important this is to reduce the likelihood that the prisoners will commit new criminal acts after settlement. In view of all these factors, the government wants to ensure progress in Prison. Therefore, the Government proposes to increase the cost framework of the project by 278,8 million. kr, which shows a clear willingness of the Government to deliver in this field. The majority decided to establish a prison in Halden at the end of 2005. The new prison will be one of the largest in Norway. In 2006, detailed design and tender material were carried out, and the prison area was prepared and cleared. The planned start-up of the groundwork and construction work has been the first half of 2007. Entreprises for land and building works were put into open competition in 2006 with a time limit for tenders at the beginning of May 2007. That is why we are discussing this today. These contracts include, inter alia: excavation of the land, construction of ring walls and construction of cell wards. These contract prices amount to approx. 60 pst. of the total costs of the project. The bids that came in gave clear indications that there would be a cost increase in the project. Therefore, state buildings immediately engaged an external consultancy company that carried out an updated uncertainty analysis of the project. The aim of such an analysis is to calculate the expected final cost of the project, based on the offers received and the remaining contract prices to be tendered. The external review concluded that the project cannot be carried out without increasing the cost framework of the project. The increase in costs is due to the pressing situation in the construction market. In 2006 and 2007, there has been a much higher price increase than expected when it was decided to start construction of Halden prison. The Ministry of Justice has assessed possible cuts in the project in order to reduce costs. The potential for cutting into the project is small. Cuts in the project will have to a large extent either lead to a reduction in prison capacity or to a deterioration in the content of the project. I do not recommend cutting measures that reduce the capacity or quality of Halden prison. As Minister of Justice, I am concerned that Halden Prison is going to be a modern prison that also contributes to prison capacity in the eastern region and that has a very high quality level of soning content. This is also why we have chosen to establish a visiting apartment at Halden Prison. It is an important measure to ensure good rehabilitation and minor relapses on release.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e339	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3490]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e358	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3490]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e376	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3490]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e394	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3490]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e410	This matter is important and concerns consent to participation in the EU Civil Crisis Management Finance Facility. This is a scheme that is now being continued for the period from 1 January 2007 to 31. of December 2013. EU cooperation in civil crisis management and disaster prevention shall reduce the risk of damage to humans and the environment, property and cultural values in the event of disasters or major adverse events and accidents. In this context, Norway may request assistance in the form of expertise, resources and competences. That is why this is an important cooperation. The matter has been dealt with by the Defence Committee and submitted to the Foreign Affairs Committee. The committees have joined the proposal without any comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e417	Since 1998, Norway has been participating in the EU disaster response action programme. Since 2002, Norway has also participated in the operational tool, the so-called Community civil crisis management system, as described above. St. pp. No 37 for 2002-2003. The EU Civil Crisis Management Finance Facility was formally adopted by Council Decision as late as 5 March 2007. Norway is invited to further cooperation in civil crisis management and disaster preparedness, including participation in the new Civil Crisis Management Finance Facility. The aim of the new financial instrument is primarily to ensure better protection of people, but also the environment, property and cultural values. It covers events that cause nature, people, acts of terrorism, technological crises and crises related to radiation, nuclear power and the environment, including coastal pollution near countries, both inside and outside the European Union. The overall objective of the Community Mechanism is to facilitate the optimal use of resources of the participating countries in the event of different types of crises within and outside the Union. It is up to the disaster-stricken country to ask for support from other countries and from the Commission. In the event of a request for assistance, the Commission’s crisis management centre shall forward it to the national focal points of the participating countries. In Norway, this is the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. It is then up to each state to decide whether and how to respond to the request for help. It is important that international humanitarian policy efforts and the use of humanitarian resources are based on the needs of the needy, and results in the field, so that international relief work is organised in the most efficient, cost-effective and impartial manner possible. Norway is one of the countries that have adhered to the principles of ‘good humanitarian giving’ where this is central. Norwegian participation in the scheme does not imply that Norway commits to channel additional humanitarian funds into concrete operations. Participation in the financial instrument will be in line with the objectives underlying national social security work. The Progress Party therefore sees the benefit of participating in such cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e433	I took the floor because I am the head of the Norwegian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly in the Western Union – there are also other representatives of the delegation in the Chamber – just to stress that what Norway is doing here, and also does in other areas, for example. in the field of defence policy, with participation in what is called combat groups within the EU, although we are not members, raises respect. That's why there's reason to stress that it's important. There will be a quiet case in Stortinget, but this is one of the things that gives us a reputation. So I just want to encourage the government council when that's what we call a vulnerability message, among other things. based on what is called the Ullring Committee's position on vulnerable infrastructure – we had a vulnerability message in 2002, one in 2004, it was nothing in 2006, and then I expect one in 2008 – to also include this side of the work, which will then be a footnote because of the nature of the case today, but where Norway contributes in a way that I think we might say is being noticed. So just these simple words. Since attending parliamentary meetings outside, there must occasionally be an opportunity to report back to plenary rather than simply via the Foreign Affairs Committee through annual reports.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e440	I think they'll appreciate it. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[See page 3491]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e455	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-17.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e478	During the debate, Ivar Kristiansen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate an upgrade of the Zeppelin Mountain Laboratory in the New Ålesund and to ensure that funds are allocated to the Observatory as soon as possible so that the full potential of the laboratory can be fully exploited.’ The proposal is addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e510	During the debate, Mr Solvik-Olsen put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e542	President, I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e549	The President then expects Bjørn Jacobsen to have voted in favour of the vote. 78 votes were cast for the vote and 25 votes for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e648	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e689	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Proposal No. 2, from the left, taken up to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to enable parents with disabled children to receive a care allowance limited up to 80 per cent of 6 G.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e713	Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for an overall review of the care pay scheme so that similar cases are treated equally regardless of the residence address of the amount of the care wage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e719	The Christian People's Party has announced in the debate that we want to vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e750	During the debate, Mr Giltun put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e791	The vote will take place at the Odelstinget meeting on 6 June 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to facilitate the reservation of the central register proposed in connection with the eReceptive Solution.’; It is the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left who support the proposal, and the President assumes that the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e816	The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e873	In the course of the debate, 17 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 5 and 6 by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 7 and 8, by André Oktay Dahl, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 9–17, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposals Nos. 1–8 is included in the vote, while the proposals from the Christian People’s Party are distributed in the Chamber. The proposals of the Christian People's Party have been submitted after the deadline set at 1 p.m. 09.00, as provided for in Section 30 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, but if there are no objections to the examination of the proposals, the President will recommend that they do so. No objections have been raised, and the proposals will be discussed. Proposals Nos. 9-17, with the exception of proposal No. 13, from the Christian People's Party, addressed to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e954	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 13, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e957	‘The Government asks the Government to propose to legislate on provocation.’ The Left has announced that they wish to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e970	Proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from the right, is taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e996	Proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the Advance Party, taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e1022	Proposals Nos. 1 to 4, except paragraphs 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right, to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e1054	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote a case of more differentiated police training.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e1101	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 31 May 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider in detail the legality of the derogation proposed in proposals for anti-competitive activities in forestry in relation to the obligations arising from the EEA Agreement.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e1122	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party for Progress and the Right, submitted by Mr Odelstinget’s meeting on 31 May 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to carry out a broad evaluation of the effects of regulatory regulation on cooperatives, including an assessment of whether there has been a further distortion of competition in markets with few and market-dominant cooperatives. The Government is requested to ensure that such evaluation is carried out within three years of the entry into force of the Cooperative Act.» The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e1143	The vote will take place on behalf of the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) from the meeting of Odelstinge on 31 May 2007. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose amendments to the law on cooperatives preventing the lock-in of collective capital, including: access to the fund-semision as provided for by Swedish and Finnish cooperative legislation. [[synthesis]] At the same time, the law must have mechanisms to safeguard against the loss of equity.» The right has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-2.ana.ud634e1191	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
