ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e47	The President will first give the Stortinget the sad message that our good colleague, Petter Løvik, died yesterday. The President will return to the memorial, but the President will ask the representatives to stand up for a short while in reverence for Petter Løvik. The representatives got up and stayed standing for a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e54	Thank you! The former alternate of the More and Romesdal counties Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has taken the seat as a representative. The representative Anne Margrethe Larsen, who has been licensed, has once again taken up his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Group of the Progressive Party on sick leave for the representative Ulf Leirstein as from 4 December until further notice from the representative Trond Lode on care leave as from 5 December until 19 December On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Rogaland County: Magnhild EiaFor Østfold County: Per Egil Evensen
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e96	Per Egil Evensen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e110	At the request of the Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e121	Next year is the last year of the current long-term planning period, which means that we will have a new debate on the long-term plan. This means that this budgetary procedure may be slightly different from the others, because it is not natural to give too many leadership to that process itself. Nevertheless, it is necessary to stay at the most basic, namely the financial framework for defence. If we didn't want to put it at the right level next year's budget, it's at least important whether we go in the wrong direction or not. Unfortunately, next year's budget will go further in the wrong direction, with a slight decline in the defence budget until next year. It's not that this decline is dramatic, isolated. It's probably none of the deductions. The problem is that they come every year, so that this becomes an accumulated effect that is not immaterial at all. Now, if we look at next year's budget, we see that the budget is now 3.2 pst. below the average on which it should be based if the final decision on the long-term programme of the Storting had to be taken. In addition, there is a certain delay in the conversions, so that not all effects have been removed, even if many effects have been removed. So that means that next year's amount will be below what it should have been. It's going to add up billions of them, and it's noticing. Now there have never been any problems in balancing budgets in the short term. The problem is that such weightings always go beyond what should really be put at the forefront, namely investments and exercises. We are now 4 billion dollars behind in terms of investment, and in terms of exercises, it should be more to next year. One thing is that Cold Response is exposed, something else is that Home Protection is not practiced to the extent that it would be desirable – it is something that connects the personnel to the Defense and to their task, it is precisely that they are practiced – and that is unfortunate. It's clear that continuing this, we're in a difficult and dramatic situation. I have noticed that the government often sells its north-eastern bet. I would like to remind you that, in the long term, it will not be possible to maintain a North-Area effort in lower budgets. In the right-hand option, we're at least trying to stop this decline by saying no to the dwindling this year. We're adding an amount that compensates for both the decrease in 2007 and the decrease in 2008. In fact, it turns out that only in these two years has there been an amount of approximately $1 billion. We want to use these funds for larger investments, more for construction, and so we want to spend more money on home security. The message about the appropriations that next year's budget gives, namely that the appropriations are too low, is also as far as I can read, some of the main thrust of the two investigations that now form the basis of the long-term plan. That means that when we get into that work, there's no doubt that the allocation games have to point up again. It'll also be my goal with the work we're going into. Now the sitting government has been so lucky that it has enormously much bigger tax revenues than the government I was a member of. It's nice, and a small part of this must then be possible to use to get the defense games up again, otherwise the development of the Defense becomes dramatic. How much, we get to come back to. It's kind of dependent on whether it's going to be a wide deal or not, and it has to be counted on, but there's no doubt in which direction this has to go. Now it's clear that at a time when it's quiet around us, we have a justification problem with the population as to why we're going to spend as many billions as we do after all on Defense. There I think that the range of defence policy has found an interesting formulation when it talks about the timeless task of defence to ensure the security of the state. Yes, that is an interesting wording. It also requires a lot of leadership to tell you why it's important to do something about this timeless task every year and not just push it out. As for the long-term plan we're going to work on, I already feel – after talking to some of those people who feel affected by some of the proposals that float around in the debate – quite sure that we're going to get into a new discussion on calculations. It was just supposed to be missing. The assumptions for computations will often govern what the result of them is. Therefore, the assumptions need to be discussed, and there needs to be sufficient transparency about them. I hope and believe that parts of this can be sorted out before the matter comes to Stortinget. So that means that the government in its process now has to set up a process with all of those that have alternative operations, to get them properly discussed, and to be more open with the premises, so that we can get a process where we can later be told what we agree on, and what we disagree about, so that the Storting doesn't have to spend time figuring out the more actual conditions. There is something the Storting is not particularly suitable for, without establishing a large device. That means that the government has to establish that device, and it has to show the transparency that makes everyone who feels worried about the calculations we've seen so far can at least feel that they've been heard in a proper way, and that it's possible afterwards to find out what the discussion is about. There are some terms that have been sold in in connection with the long-term plan, and to which I will confess. One is the concept of critical mass. There are limits to how much you can cut things down before it's pointless to have them. The second is the concept of balance. I want to add in terms of the last, that this is by no means an exact science. To decide what the balance sheet is, for example: between operation and investment is, to the most extent, a matter of judgement. That's why it's so important to have the basis for your judgement. I think it'll have a pretty big impact on some of the results we're going to have to achieve. So a few pretty few words about international operations. There's a couple of things that call for comments. One is the Sudan operation, which we will also have a proposal for additional appropriations later today. I agree that it is not calculated and budgeted for in the current year's budget, but that does not mean that we can do as we did with UNIFIL last year, namely wait with the appropriations for all expenditure was spent, sum and then come to the Stortingen and ask for the appropriations. It is clear that when it is reasonably certain what the allocation is going to be, then not only should it, but it should, according to the regulations, come to Stortinget. I am aware that it is uncertain whether there will be any of it at all, but I have noticed that Secretary of State Barth Eide has been in the press and said that he expects us to start the deployment as early as January. It would be interesting to know whether the Council of State agrees with that assessment. If it goes as part of us fears, that the Sudans are going to train this, at some point until next year, we will reach the point where we have to decide to throw the cards, just because it will cost considerable amount to have a strength standing waiting to be outsourced. When it is, we get to get back to, but we have to look in our eyes that this is by no means safe. So a little question about the operation that was explained, some time ago, a possible operation in Chad. I realized from the statement from the Minister of Defence that it was an operation that was relatively advanced in time and very uncertain. My impression of the debate in the other countries to contribute to the Nordic force is that this is being discussed significantly more actively there. My question is how much chance the Council of State expects it to be that we're going to contribute. Both of these operations think I'm meaningful – I don't just believe it, I'm pretty sure of it – even though they're getting difficult. So it'll be interesting to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e157	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e160	In the budget position, the Right refers to its alternative budget, where it is said that the defence budget is increased by 550 million. kr, and that you stop the contraction that Petersen showed in his post. But if you go into the setting, you see that the right-hand side actually just increases by 450 million. kr. If you go closer to the 100 million, you find that the right deposit these by foreshadowing the sale of defence property. But as the representative Petersen is familiar with, the large income potential for selling defence properties has already been removed. Nor can I see that the committee leader in the setting has argued that a greater potential can be taken out in this area. My question is then: why is it that the Right Alternative Budget believes it is unproblematic to raise 100 million. SEK for the sale of properties until next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e165	I didn't say it was unproblematic. I have said that it is possible to get it done. I'm glad Signe Eye now confirms that we have a plus in relation to the budget that the Workers' Party is in favour of, but I think we both have to admit that if we're going to get close to reaching the studies that form the basis of the long-term plan, we both have to be involved in bringing this up considerably. That's what's the real challenge, not a fine-tuning now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e170	If I'm going to interpret the Right Representative Petersen in the wrong direction, in the worst sense, he says that there should be automatic between high tax revenues and licenses to the Defense. I'm interpreting it as a positive option for higher taxation. But what he shows in his post is that it's 3.2 pst. decline. There is no doubt, then, that it has been our great foresight in the defence alliances since 1990, since the cold war was over. I choose to interpret his post as saying that we should only license autopilots without developing Nordic cooperation, without settling it in financial terms, without settling it in error investments. It may seem that a person should only have permission without checking what he should be allowed to do. One shouldn't first decide what kind of defense you want, and then fund this defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e175	It can't work that way. The reality is that both the department and the Stortinget have decided on how a plan should hang together. The question is simply whether we can then follow our own decisions or not. This is where the problem has been on the allocation side, namely that even what the Storing has defined as the right amount after trying all the factors behind the calculation, it is not possible to follow up on the annual budgets. That's something we're all responsible for, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't address it. Then we should address it, for example. The right does so in its alternative draft budget. Otherwise, I am interested in Jacobsen's tax credits, because it is obvious that he believes that the tax revenue is due to a higher tax rate under the red-green government. Well, much of it is simply because it has become so much speed in the economy, which is not least due to the tax relief that the previous government introduced, and that you have now received an income you can use, and my appeal is that you use at least a little bit of it to increase the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e182	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e185	The government follows up the Soria Moria statement by granting NOK 31.5 billion to the Defense for next year. As a result, a still high level of defence budget is maintained. At the same time, however, it should not be emphasised that the 2008 budget will be challenging and will require tough priorities, not least within the FLO. But nevertheless, all the gloomy predictions that there was going to be low defence budgets from a red-green government, where SV is involved, are thus once again made to shame. This is a budget to live with, and there is also a great deal of agreement on the defence budget, with the exception of the Progress Party. The opposition, on the other hand, cracks in all directions here. The Progress Party will increase the Framework Area 8, Defense, by $2 billion, while the Right has actually increased by 450 million. kr. The Christian People's Party and the Left on the other hand have cut 160 million, respectively. SEK and 221,2 million. kr in relation to the Government's proposal, what will be adopted. That's why this year, as last year, there's reason to ask questions about whether not a bourgeois government would have landed roughly where we are today. Governments have once again been given control over the defence economy, among other things. by significantly strengthening financial management. That's good, and it was necessary. The conversion has been followed up so far according to the assumptions. As a result, operational capability has improved in all sectors of defence, Home Security and Joint Units. At the same time, the Workers' Party acknowledges that the defence is still facing major challenges. It is therefore important and essential to continue the planned change in the defence. On the operational side, it is absolutely necessary to continue work on modernisation through the new long-term plan coming next year. The Labour Party believes that we need a robust and strong defence, which can meet a wide range of different tasks in Norway. At the same time, however, it is also necessary to facilitate increased participation in international operations which are anchored in a clear and unambiguous UN mandate or other recognised international legal basis. The Labour Party is pleased that Norway’s significant military contribution to Afghanistan will continue in 2008 and that Norway, in cooperation with Sweden, has offered an engineering department for the UN/AU operation in the Darfur province of Sudan. We don't know for sure yet if there will be deployment of this force. That is why I am pleased with – and I believe it is right – that the Government is proposing to return to the Storting with additional appropriations for non-predictable international operations, if contributions such as these are made. to Sudan. As I said earlier in the post, the Government continues to prioritise the modernisation of the Defence and Operational activities. It is therefore worth noting that efficiency improvements and reduced need for take-off-stimulating personnel measures now provide room for a total net operating savings of 0,6 pst. compared to the 2007 budget. It'll benefit all the defenses. On the other hand, we know that employees are tired after many years of conversion. Now the organization needs to be calmed down. Therefore, it is good that the addition stop has been lifted and that it should no longer be the annual management that should be the main management objective, but the economic conditions. There is no reason to assume that rents are not more expensive than permanent employees. Of the 2008 priorities, I would like to point out that the army budget is given priority and is proposed to provide a significant real boost compared to 2007. The army’s overall operational capability, including reaction and combat capability, is probably better today than ever. At the same time, there is reason to be satisfied that there is room for launching several new and important projects, including: to continue the equipment renewal of the Army. There is now a comprehensive modernization of the military, with the replacement of clothing, protective equipment, connection and weapons. Light armoured vehicles, equipment to prevent the release of roadside bombs, etc. have been acquired. This is important. The Labour Party believes that when we send out soldiers in demanding operations, such as: in Afghanistan, they must have the best equipment. Support functions, such as: The health of the defence is also given a significant real boost next year. In addition, the Government's proposals for budgets for the other defence sectors, including the Coast Guard and the Home Guard, mean that everyone will have real increases due to cheaper services. The Progress Party believes that this is not enough. Then it becomes strange that the Progress Party in the vote believes that the Coast Guard gets too little funding, while in the financial position they don't give a single penny more to the Coast Guard. The investment budget will also be strengthened. The government’s overall investment allocation proposal is now 9 473 million. kr. This implies a strengthening of 1,7 pst. compared to 2007. Investment activity in 2008 is targeted at major ongoing projects, such as: new frigates, new missile torpedo boats, new sea target missiles, new transport aircraft, new maritime helicopters, new armoured vehicles, updating of P-3 Orion maritime surveillance aeroplanes and F-16 aeroplanes, etc. Also in the case of investment in EBA, significant structural measures are being implemented, including: military training facilities at Haakonsvern, multi-use building on Skold and training and management buildings on Setermoen. The 2008 budget implies the continuation of the number of first-time staff at 2007 levels. The number of girls in the 2008 session is assumed to be at least as high as in 2007, which means that the proportion of women in the initial service may increase. In the case of military compensation, in 2008 the disbursement allowance has been proposed to increase to NOK 25 000 from next year for crews who have completed the first 12 months of service. This means that the remuneration has increased by a total of 67 pst. since 2005. It's good and it's an important contribution to our guardians. By the way, I would like to highlight the music of Defence, which is an important traditional and cultural bearer of Defence. It is therefore good that the Swedish Defence Music Foundation receives a further increase in the allocation of 2 million. kr in relation to the revised national budget for the current year. After all that has been said positively, it is also important to stress that we are facing significant challenges in terms of defence in the coming years. This brings me to the long-term challenge for defence, namely to bring together the structure, tasks and financial framework of defence. The problem is that there has always been a gap between the original assumptions in the long-term plans and the actual, adopted budgets, regardless of who has been in government. On this occasion, I would like to point out that both in the Defence Manager's study and in the Defence Policy Committee, the continuation of the budgetary development of the Defence that we have had from 1990 until today will mean a gradual reduction and liquidation of the Defence, as a result of falling purchasing power. For this reason, I would like to stress the need for a long-term and predictable lifting of defence, if Norway were still to have the freedom to act to meet a range of challenges with national military units. I therefore hope that next year we will be able to achieve a broad political settlement, providing long-term and predictability for a robust and strong defence, a settlement that will bring peace and security to the defence, both internally and, not least, in society. Finally, I would like to say once again that I am very pleased with the Government's draft budget for 2008. I am proud to belong to the red-green majority, who deliver what they have promised, also in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e240	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e244	The representative Eye began by glorifying the Soria Moria Declaration. She has to do that, but in terms of the defence, we from the Progress Party can't see that something has happened at all in the two years that have passed. The representative Eye also mentioned that the budget was to live with. Yeah, but there's no more than that either. According to the Soria Moria declaration, this government was supposed to raise the budget. It hasn't been done. Then I have to ask the representative if the Workers' Party can explain how to increase the level of activity of the Maritime Defence Agency, when no funds have been allocated for the training of personnel for our new vessels. I assume that the Workers' Party is friendly – to put it that way – for a phase-in of the new MTBs, but that is not the case. personnel training.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e251	As regards the MTBs, we know that both the Defence Policy Survey and the FS 07 state that the MTBs are to be terminated. As regards the treatment in the Workers' Party, we have not taken a decision on this at all. We will deal with this matter carefully. We have invested 5 billion kroner here, and it is not easy to say that these boats are to be terminated after they have been built. But these are things that we'll come back to when the long-term plan, which is to be treated for spring, is presented. As far as personnel for the boats are concerned, I have understood that you now have good control over the training of the personnel needed, and that there is no crisis in that area. When the representative Width says that we have not given priority to the budget, I totally disagree with that. I would like, among other things: point to the North Region Initiative, where we have strengthened every year, inter alia: Coast Guard with a significant million dollars.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e262	I listened with great interest to the particular end of Signe Øyes' posts, which I could not perceive in any other way than that she also believed that the allocation games had to go up again. I think that's good, and I think that's a strong and clear signal to the Government, as it now enters into the discussion of that question. My question, however, is this: Since Signe Eye is so pleased with this year's budget, does she not see it as a problem that the Stortinget is not able to follow up its own decisions? Won't it send a signal to the next period? The problem is not to adopt a long-term plan; the problem is to follow it up every year. Wouldn't it have been better for credibility if she had followed me in the little self-criticism I've been willing to exercise, precisely because we haven't managed to follow the long-term plan? That I think must be a prerequisite for us next time to be able to make this considerably better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e269	I fully agree with the representative, Jan Petersen, that this is a problem. But as I also said in my post, this has been a problem under many governments. In fact, we are now able to follow the long-term plan with 98 pst. There's been a bigger gap in the previous periods, so here you're inside an area where you're pretty similar, whether you're in the Right or if you're in the Working Party. But that doesn't mean we're going to continue that trend. I think that after so many years of seeing that there has been a reduction, we have a choice: either we have to assume that more money is needed to keep a defense that we want, or we have to make the second choice. I believe that the arrows should point upwards, as Jan Petersen also said they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e274	As the representative Signe Eye itself expressed it, there is a great deal of agreement on the defence budget, as it has been presented, with the exception of the Progress Party and on economic issues in some cases. However, the suspension relates some concerns to some parts of the defence, and in particular to the development of the Home Protection system, where the Labour Party and the Socialist Left also express concern that operational activities are not continuing at the same level in 2008 as in 2007. When we connect this to the Defense Study 07 and also to the Defence Policy Selection, it may seem that we can go in the direction of a strong down-priority of Homeland Protection. Then is my question to the representative Signe Eye: What is the Workers' Party's view of safeguarding the function of Homeland Protection in Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e281	There is no doubt that the migration into the Home Office is among the most successful changes we have made in recent years. We now have a HV that's better than ever. It's also the case that there's a lot of practice going on. We support the fact that the level of growth in HV is now at a level where growth is still required, including in 2008. We believe that this will mean that the conversion in HV can also continue to be good for next year. As far as concerns are concerned, I have not stated that we have concerns in relation to HV. My concerns went more in relation to the FLO. But I think it is strange that the Christian People's Party, which has cut the defense budget, believes that HV should have had more.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e288	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e291	In the defence chief's annual speech in Oslo Military Society a short time ago, there were opinions testifying to the speed with which security policy situations can change. The Chief of Defense said something like that, in the case of Russian power demonstration and influence against Norway, it could provide a brief and limited military operation, which could be intense enough at the tactical level, but which would probably be terminated when it had served its purpose – before risking escalation to an extent where the political and economic risks were no longer proportionate to the gain. For me, these are new signals from the Chief of Defense. After my memory, it is no more than a year since he stated in general terms that there was no kind of military threat to Norway in the foreseeable future. ‘Experience of the future’ must mean ‘under one year’. This should be borne in mind when we express ourselves on what kind of challenges the Norwegian defence must be able to face. Norway has traditionally had a defence with a focus on defence of Norway. At the same time, we have been aware that we have a strong alliance with NATO, and thus have obligations towards our allies. In recent years, we have witnessed a turnaround in Norwegian defence and security policy. Defence has undergone major organisational changes, and security policy has been given a more offensive approach, so that Norway is now more committed than before in situations outside our neighbourhood. It is a fact that the defence is heavily underfunded. This happens under this government, as has happened under many previous governments. If the Government’s draft budget for 2008 is to be a prior warning of what the forthcoming long-term proposition will be like, there is serious concern. The Government’s draft defence budget for 2008 is in fact below the balance of the 2007 budget. Compared to the financial assumptions underlying the 2005-2008 Long-term Plan, the 2008 Defence Budget is 3.2 pst. below the planned annual average level for the period. The Progress Party therefore considers the economic situation of the Defence as critical. In a number of areas there are significant investment and operational deficiencies. We therefore want to increase the appropriations for the operation of the defence sectors by a total of DKK 2 billion in addition to the government's draft budget in our alternative budget. In this context, I would like to mention the areas that we specifically prioritised. National safety authority represents a central part of our protection against data attacks and attacks on infrastructure. We are of the opinion that Norway must stand strongly armed against threats to infrastructure and soft targets. We therefore believe that it is necessary to enhance the general competence and understanding of today’s and tomorrow’s threat picture within the responsibility of the national safety authority. The propulsion party therefore wants to increase its operation by 5 million. kr in our alternative budget. We are very concerned that the Army must now have predictability in its budgets, so that the Army can solve the tasks they are charged with by the Storting. The budgets of recent years have undermined the army's ability to solve the assigned tasks. There is therefore a need for increased training and procurement of materials in the context of training and education. It is alarming to see that the Government wants to cut out ‘Cold Response’ in 2008 as an important exercise for practice and training in interaction with different arms and nations. There is a clear turn towards a greater focus on the north in the general security policy debate. This requires that the defense has a significant presence in North Norway, including Finnmark. The army thus has an important task and therefore needs to be secured enough resources to have the necessary structure in the northern regions. This is necessary to show our allies and others that we have the will and the ability to ensure a real presence in the north. Furthermore, the Advance Party is therefore concerned that the urgent need for 500 new orders to the Army is being resolved. We therefore want to increase the operating budget by 300 million. kr in our alternative budget. Recent developments in Russian activity in northern areas, both at sea, under and above water, testify to the strategic and economic importance of marine areas. The strengthened Russian presence demands that Norway also increase its presence in the northern regions, in particular our submarines will be useful intelligence tools in this context. In the years that will come, our new frigates will be a great resource in our sovereignty and surveillance of the northern regions. Increased activity results in high standards of competence, flexibility and materiality. The increased need for the presence and introduction of new frigates leads to a sharp increase in the need for operational means. Combined with the preparation for the phase-in of new MTBs, this will also be the responsibility of the Maritime Defence budget. It is therefore necessary, in our opinion, to strengthen the operational budget in order to achieve these tasks in an appropriate and sound manner. Furthermore, maritime defence has challenged the training of crews to an ever-growing fleet. The Progress Party therefore intends to increase the operational budget by 600 million. kr in our alternative budget. Russia’s ever-increasing activity in the airspace around Norway has resulted in air defence going on the wings a dozen times in the last year. The increasing flight activity will incur additional costs in the form of funds for operation and maintenance. It is therefore strange that the Government has not taken this into account in the draft budget submitted. In the context of the increasing Russian aviation activity and fleet activity as well as troop activity, the Progress Party is committed to strengthening maritime surveillance in the northern regions. It is necessary to increase patrol operations by Orion surveillance aircraft. Air defence is currently widely used for foreign missions. This leads to a high level of competence, flexibility and materiality. In our view, it is important to take into account increased costs associated with the phase-in of new transport aircraft. We therefore consider it necessary to strengthen the operational budget so that the necessary training, operations and material acquisitions can be carried out, and therefore propose in our alternative budget to strengthen the operational budget by 500 million. kr. The Progress Party sees a clear need for a better presence of the Coast Guard in our northern regions and otherwise along our long-distance coast. It is very important that the number of operational service days increases, especially in view of the increased activity in the northern regions. It is important for Norwegian sovereignty and resource management that the Coast Guard has the resources to do a good job, including: with fisheries surveillance. This requires financial resources to ensure a high number of helicopter hours in operational service. We believe that more money needs to be allocated to the operation, so that the presence can be ensured more effectively in our marine areas. We therefore wanted to strengthen the operating budget by 300 million. kr in our alternative budget. We look with concern at the fact that the Defence Logistics Organisation is unable to deliver the material and services the operational departments demand. The National Auditor writes in Document No. 1 that they are concerned about Norwegian defence capabilities as a result of the FLO’s lack of operational means of recruiting personnel to carry out the purchase of other tasks related to logistics to the Defence Departments. In the context of the forthcoming large material acquisitions, it is absolutely necessary that the FLO have sufficient resources to streamline these orders. The FLO is responsible for the proper functioning of procurement processes on its own and on the basis of qualitative criteria ensuring that Norwegian defence is provided with the right material at the right price in the right place at the right time. If the FLO does not have enough resources, this will affect all defenses. We therefore see it as important that the financial framework be strengthened so that the organisation can employ the necessary personnel to solve its mission, and therefore wanted to increase the operating budget by 295 million. kr in our alternative budget. It is not just on the operational side that there is a lack of funds in the Government's draft budget. Especially in view of large material acquisitions, the situation is difficult. As we have mentioned several times before, we therefore want – to ease the pressure – to divide the purchase of new fighter aircraft into two blocks, regardless of the choice of type of fighter aircraft. In the Government’s 2008 budget proposal, material investment is reduced by 3.7 pst. compared to the 2007 budget balance and is DKK 1.9 billion below the 2008 level on which the current long-term plan is based. Accumulated under-coverage of material investments over the long term will amount to approximately NOK 4 billion. The Progress Party believes that this development is irresponsible. In the government's proposition, we can read that the Government has considered further increasing the allocation to an extremely critical operating situation beyond the level set for 2008, by re-prioritising investments, investments that the Government itself points to as necessary and that will increase in the coming years. All weapons face extensive renewal of their material. During the whole long term 2005-2008, material investment has become a significant decline in priority. Thus, the government has chosen to downgrade operating appropriations in order to try to maintain the level of investment. We know that the defence is strongly critical of both operational and material investments. This suggests the Government instead of increasing the appropriations, as the Progress Party suggests. At the moment it seems that it is only the Progress Party who is willing to increase the appropriations for the Defence and to honour this. I can't see that any other parties in this hall want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e327	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e330	Most will be envious of the Progress Party because they have much more money than we do when it comes to all good purposes. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party has increased the defence budget by DKK 2 billion. In the budgetary position, the party refers to its alternative budget and refers to the financial position as regards, inter alia, the following: The Home Guard and the Coast Guard. We have also heard the representative, Mr Width, mention it from the pulpit today. If you go into the financial position itself and look at the priorities of the Progress Party, you won't find a single word either about coastguards or about home protection. There are mentions of army, air defence and maritime defence. Why does the Progress Party give the impression that the seemingly more bets on the Home and Coast Guard, when they really don't? If I were to be wrong against assumption, I would ask the representative Per Ove Width to explain where, in the draft budget of the Progress Party, the increased effort on the Home and Coast Guard has fallen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e337	If the representative reads the alternative defence budget of the Progress Party, he will find – as is rightly said – that we are proposing to increase this budget by DKK 2 billion. I have mentioned a number of sums and where we intend to place them, and it should not be so difficult to understand that we also mentioned the Coast Guard in this context. I am surprised that the Workers' Party has not discovered that we have prioritised the Coast Guard in our alternative defence budget. As far as Home Security is concerned, it is clear that this is an important challenge, but also there, the representative will find that we have spent money, if not as much as in the examples I mentioned earlier in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e345	The Progress Party and the Wideth say that the Defense must be able to easily adapt to different threat images. I think the defense is in good condition for that. Actually, I'm more unsure whether the Progress Party is able to capture new, different threat images. We know that the Defense does it, not least through the Coast Guard's different roles, e.g. The role of the Coast Guard in peacetime and the role of the Coast Guard in relation to environmental and resource considerations. We also see that when the Progress Party calls for more exercises, the Defense has turned around. Instead of running Cold Responses, a Barents Rescue is running, which is of course a military and civil exercise in relation to the new threats we see in oil accidents, etc. How can we expect the Progress Party to see that the Defence must also adapt to the new climate challenges that we see daily in the North?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e352	This is the usual question from the representative Jacobsen in SV, and from SV in general. SV has a strange ability to mix climate issues as an essential part of the Defence. That it's part of the defense – yes, it is, but it's not the most important part. There we have other arenas to operate on. Why should the representative Jacobsen always try to give priority to defence money, a budget that he himself has been involved in driving so far down that there is no room for defence activities beyond what is already? As Jacobsen rightly mentions, we are facing major challenges, but to interfere with these activities that Jacobsen is constantly doing, there is no room in the defence budget. Then SV had to be willing to increase the appropriations for the defence budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e357	The Advance Party has a strong focus on Defence, and they should be commended for having the means to implement what they think about Defence, from their point of view. As far as I can read from the setting, the Progress Party will primarily use its money to strengthen the sharp part of the Defense, based on its thoughts about the threat picture that exists. As far as the challenges we face in the North are concerned, they are per year. Today, very much related to the social security aspect. My question is a little bit in the direction of it. We're getting a social security message next year. In the Christian People's Party, we are deeply concerned about what we can achieve in a cooperation between defence and civil society, thereby creating greater social security. To what extent is the Progress Party willing to use funds to strengthen the defence effort towards cooperation with civil society?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e364	Of course, the defense is very concerned about – no, the Progress Party is very concerned about. And the defense too, I see it smiling here. The defense is also concerned about this, there is no doubt about it. To what extent we're willing to bet on it, how many dollars, and so on. We're going to bet, I can't answer right now. But as the representative quite rightly says, there will be a separate message about it next year. The progress party will normally be very active in relation to such a message, and it will show what we are willing to invest. I can promise that, like the pointed end of the defense, this will occupy us and have a strong focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e371	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e374	On the TV in my office, I was delighted yesterday to join the same kind of debate that we have today, in Parliament in Sweden. There were a lot of busy things that had come out of Swedish-Norwegian cooperation, which could be a dawning start to more Nordic cooperation. A boast by the Norwegian professional and Norwegian State Councils that this is a good basis for cooperation. One looked at the good when it comes to material cooperation, training and education. A well-known possibility for medivac, which in international operations can give our soldiers even more security. There is a really good basis here, and it was good to see that it was the basis for the debate in Parliament. When it comes to the defence economy, which we are discussing, I would like to stress that Sweden and Norway can produce many profitable cooperation models in connection with material acquisitions. Take tanks, for example. mid-life upgrades of Leopard 2 and CV90 storm armored vehicles, the Swedish Defence Research Institute, together with Swedish colleagues in the so-called Total Defence Research Institute, conducted a rough analysis of the savings potential of any cooperation on these upgrades. The conclusion is that we can save 5 pst. the cost of the mid-life updates, the renovations and modifications already planned, by cooperating on the cold. In crowns and ears, this means that we can save on the Norwegian side approx. 120 million. Norwegian krones, while one on the Swedish side will save 350 million. Swedish krona. If the cooperation develops to cover the entire material process, i.e. development, procurement, operation and closure, the analysis indicates a saving potential compared to today's national solutions of 800 million. Swedish krona for both countries. This is great money to save by relatively simple grips, and that work must continue. We see that the Swedish are the gears on this. I would like to say that it can also help to strengthen future Nordic security cooperation. We all know that intelligence is the basis for sustaining national decisions. It might be a shame to say that, but we're going to use about the same amount of intelligence in Norway as we do in this house. We're about as precious as the E-tenesta. It shows how important this is. Today, the message came that 15 different US intelligence agencies say there is no basis for saying that Iran will be able to develop nuclear weapons within five to ten years. One does not say that it is impossible beyond that time frame, but there is no acute threat. So we know that right now there is going to be a war in Iraq that was clearly the foundation of the wrong use of the intelligence service. One initiates a war that has created so huge sufferings, that create enormous sufferings, and that will create enormous sufferings, because of the totally wrong use of intelligence. We're going to take that with us, because it shows you how careful it is to be thorough when defining threats. Having a used political backbone to go to action instead of finding negotiated solutions, the abuse of the intelligence service will be what can get us off the wrong track. We know that these days one of the world's most important meetings, namely climate negotiations in Bali. I've already been criticized, and I'm sure I'll be criticized several times, to bring climate into defence policy. We should be aware that for many people, both in Norway and abroad, the climate is the great threat, and what people are actually afraid of. The main task of the defense is to help create freedom from fear. Then we must not be suspended in old threat images. We need to look at how Defense can help people actually feel safe. There are no other places that are more natural to pull out the bet we're making in the north. I am sure the defense has shown that they are running in practice. I also look at the setting that is in place, that the defence arrangements are beginning to improve when it comes to the environment in internal operations, etc. I think you have to be good at organizing your own organisation before you're able to define yourself in your own national environmental policy. I thought the defense here was in a good way, and I hope that this work will continue to a greater extent. Then it will be up to us politicians to define what will be the defence role in the important environmental policy in the north. Then, unfortunately, it is Norway's part so that Russia, with President Putin's final signature, has resigned and no longer feels obliged to the CFE agreement. In my view, it is a tragedy for Norway. For us as a flanking country, this could mean that we get more upgrading on Kola than we want in any way. It may almost look as if about 15 years' work on disarmament has failed. We're going to hope it doesn't work that way. But we have to assume that there may be a pressure in relation to rocket shields, because it may appear as if this is a Russian response to NATO's and US rocket shield plans. The hope is that one has received a new government in Poland, and the resistance in the Czech Republic is also great. I also record that the U.S. Congress in recent times has refused to allow more money for the rocket shield plans, which are technically in no way up and running. It is perhaps where the dog is buried, that it is the technology industry and the military industry that most want this. For Norway, this is serious. It's not in Norway's interests that the alliance we're in, in any way irritates our good neighbour in the East more than is most necessary, at least not unnecessarily. When it comes to international operations, I think we should assume that Afghan women parliamentarians are right: we don't like the foreign solar data, but we don't want them to leave. They're kind of between the bark and the wood. They see that the foreign solar data create security, but at the same time they see that in the long run it is not lucky that foreign soldiers are there with their presence. In this round they choose that the solar data should be there, because they create the security that is needed in everyday life. Here, we need to be even more good at arranging international operations, so that we not only create security, but also development and governance and, of course, provide the basis for us to go home in the long term. I am pleased that in the Norwegian debate we have now begun to talk more and more about exit strategies, how to get home in the long term, so that the Afghans can control their own country. I am very pleased that both the Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs are beginning to discuss, to take this debate, because it is only in the way that we can succeed in international operations and, of course, contribute forward in other different operations, based on its perfectly clear objective of R2P, Responsibility to Protect. On the SV side, there's no doubt that we're going to have a national defence, but we're also going to have a defence to defend international law. But then it has to be done in a proper and, of course, as legitimately legitimately as possible. I'm tempted to say that what we need most now is upgrading. Then I am not talking about upgrading military budgets or weapons arsenals, but about human rights. First of all, of course, I am talking about Russia. There I would like to pay tribute not least to the leader of Bellona, Frederic Hauge, who has been working with Russian NGOs for years. His reports from there are very ominous. If we look at the last election results from Chechnya, it was 99.9 pst. who had voted for President Putin's party. Most people would think that this could not be a real democratic election result. There's what we need to upgrade to get volunteer organizations, all kinds of political groups, to stand up and work for democracy and for human rights. Of course, this could take both one and two generations for Russia, but there we will need upgrading and not, as we see from various proposals, that we need to equip ourselves more militarily. We know that Norway's goal is more secure in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' judicial department, the rises and future negotiations on international law and the law of the sea in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e396	It is difficult to comment on most of the areas that the representative Jacobsen addresses, because he is spreading quite a bit, from environment to big politics. What's interesting is the collaboration with Sweden on the material side. I'm sure it can evolve. What is true, however, is that with us as a NATO member and Sweden as an EU member it is difficult to reconcile Norwegian-Swedish cooperation, I believe, particularly in more complex technical areas, as intelligence. My question to the representative Jacobsen will therefore be: does he not see that it will be difficult to further develop this cooperation and make it something positive in addition to purely simple material, precisely because we belong to NATO, and Sweden is not a member of NATO?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e401	I see the representative Skumsvoll's concern, but I don't think it's like that anymore. I think it sounded like the old cold war scene. I think that image is gone. I think you need to cooperate, first of all, to bring down defence expenditure, because there's no doubt that we could have done a lot, much more in this area. Now the state councils have started up, and the professional militants have started up. I think we're just seeing the beginning of an enormously important cooperation. So I'm not going to go that far – although everyone knows that I'm a NATO opponent – like making such a no to NATO slogan out of it, but I don't think NATO has anything against us in the Nordic region cooperating as much as possible, even if it's with a so-called non-member country. Finland is also not a member of NATO, but both are members of the EU. We also see that we have a little foot in front of the ESDP and the EDA's European line. I think Norway's role here will be – as a small country – to have eggs in several rows. It may seem a little confusing along the way, but I think it's our construction as a small country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e408	The main speaker of the Labour Party Signe Eye confirmed that she believed that the allocation games should now again point upwards when we arrive at the new long-term plan. It's an important statement and an important goal. I also understood her posts so that she felt that the government fraction was well fused. Then the question is whether that means that Jacobsen will be helpful in getting the allocation games back to point upwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e413	I don't think I want to be so very helpful until we've done a lot of other things. My big challenge here is that technology is moving forward, as we know, for the defence. We know that the new planes we might buy in the future, with all the technology they have, will be able to operate sovereignty and territorial surveillance. Maybe one plane will have the capacity of ten planes. So we know that technological developments also speak for the defence, so that one doesn't need so many planes – and one doesn't have to operate so many planes. This was just one example. We also see that the threats change completely. We don't see that we should be able to need an invasion defense. We're going away with a lot of battlefield capabilities. Instead, we're going to set up the Justice Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the negotiating channels and the possibilities that diplomacy gives. That's why I don't think the need for big defenses is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e421	There can be no doubt that with the Swedish Government, we have a stronger defence policy relationship in Stortinget than we have had in the past. We can also see that from the Committee's comments. I refer to the joint comment of the entire committee where one is concerned that NATO will play a very special role in Norway's security and defence policy in the future, and one goes on to say: ‘The participation in ISAF in Afghanistan is the main operation and the Committee will maintain that Norway has a long-term perspective on its participation.’ Now the representative said from the pulpit that he is a NATO opponent, but I can't see that from the vote. What I have just quoted here is that SV stands for the same thing in the setting as one does outside when we are going to discuss the long-term message in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e431	Of course we do. Everyone knows that this government is relying on a suicide statement called ‘not out of NATO and not into the EU’, so Sahl can take what he needs. Sahl refers from the setting, but it says more than NATO – it also says the UN. But the most interesting thing is that it actually also says AU, African Union, and that we imagine that we will help the continent of Africa to improve itself when it comes to the security challenges they have. I want to go so far as to say that I'm not going to hang myself in what kind of helmet the solar data are wearing, although there's no doubt that we want to go back to the UN soldiers with blue beaters. But to the extent that we are able to participate with our capable soldiers in international operations, in the training of people, in connection, sanitation, communication, engineering troops – whatever it may be – in order to help other continents get the opportunity to take better care of security, it will be the most important thing for SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e438	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e441	Defence policy issues have been high on the agenda both in the United Kingdom and in various media lately. The treatment of a new long-term plan is at the door, and both the Defence Commissioner's Defense Study 07 and the suspension by the Defence Policy Committee have created a great deal of debate. The defence has deep roots in the Norwegian people, and for Norwegian political authorities it is difficult to outsmart the future of defence. Defence shall safeguard and promote national interests, sovereignty and territorial integrity. Defence and security policy shall ensure security for Norwegian citizens, Norwegian territory and Norwegian interests at a time when the threat picture is diffuse and unpredictable. Our high-tech society is also vulnerable. The cable fire at Oslo Central Station on November 28 became a wake-up call for both civil and military society. If such an event can trigger important functions in Norway’s preparedness for terrorism, it is revealing and shows how vulnerable we are to terrorism. We all have a responsibility to provide good and functioning responsibilities in such situations and to provide adequate backup solutions to ensure that vital community institutions have operational capacities in reserve. There is therefore a need for close cooperation between defence and civil institutions. This cooperation must form the basis for a new concept of total defence, where military and civil resources are seen in a wider context. This is necessary to maintain an organised and functioning society and to protect the population and the values of society. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to having the upcoming big message of social security on the table. It gives us an opportunity to discuss and facilitate a stronger military-civil cooperation, which in turn strengthens our total defence. The new security policy challenges, cross-border terrorism and technological developments require military defence other than in the past. Norwegian forces must have high quality and be relevant and effective in relation to the challenges they face. The defence must have intervention forces that can respond quickly. The defence has therefore been through a major shift in recent years, providing Norway with a modern, flexible and ally-fitted defence. Norwegian defence policy is based on a broad majority of the Stortinget, which is also reflected in the budgetary position. The party of progress deviates somewhat from the majority, the right wants to spend some more money, and the Socialist Left Party is well placed in government and moved into the majority fold. This promises good for the debate on the long-term communication to spring. A broad majority will ensure the stability and predictability of the defence in the future. The ongoing process of change, but not completed, is necessary in order to obtain a timely defence, adapted to today’s threat picture. It is important to have a credible national defence, a defence that can, at short notice, contribute to international peace-building operations. The Christian People's Party will also stress that preparedness along our long-range coast is a high priority, and that defence must be geared towards enforcing sovereignty and ensuring stability in our northern seas. There is no doubt that the major national defence challenges in the future will lie in the north. The increased activity of Russia in recent times and the growing terrorist threat must lead to increased preparedness to maintain the rich natural resources of the northern regions. We also have open borders and responsibilities in these areas, which increase the risk of conflicts and crises. It is therefore gratifying that the Army has been considerably strengthened in the north. It is no big surprise that the Christian People's Party will be strongly concerned with taking care of and strengthening the future presence of the defence in the northern regions, also in Finnmark, which in the Defense Study 07 comes out somewhat weakened. The size has an important role to play in ensuring that the defence budget provides the highest possible operational capability. A balance between investment assets and operating costs is important. The defence's tasks, structure and access to resources must be proportionate. We are aware that both the head of defence and the range of defence policy point to the need to increase the annual defence appropriations. This challenge will also be addressed by the Christian People's Party in the treatment of the long-term message. But within a tight framework and because we had to correct cuts in areas that the Christian People's Party prioritises in the 2008 budget, we have not prioritised increasing the defence budget in this round. Norway also has a responsibility to contribute to international peace and stability, and the experience of our military forces in peacekeeping operations outside its borders contributes to strengthening Norway’s overall security policy position. Norwegian forces involved in international operations make an important contribution and are recognised for their competence. International military operations abroad demonstrate Norway's solidarity with the international community and contribute to the fulfilment of our commitments as members of the UN and NATO. The Christian People's Party will underline the key role played by the United Nations as the basis for Norwegian defence and foreign policy. International security challenges must find their solution based on the UN Charter, and international operations must be internationally anchored through the UN Security Council. Both diplomatic, economic and military instruments must be exploited in the work of international peace and reconciliation. Multinational cooperation will have an increased impact on defence. The safety of Norwegian personnel must be of the highest priority, cf. the ongoing debate on the presence of health professionals. Norwegian participation in international operations must be anchored by international law. In addition, political and moral legitimacy is necessary. In order to anchor Norwegian foreign and defence policy in the people, a broad and open debate on military engagement abroad is important for the Christian People's Party. Norway must refrain from participating in preventative warfare and pre-emptive attacks that have not been clearly anchored in international law. Within the overall framework of the UN, NATO is the cornerstone of Norwegian security policy, and we are pleased that the Government, including the Socialist Left Party, will continue Norway's membership in NATO and use the organisation actively to develop transatlantic dialogue, partnership, peacekeeping, disarmament, arms control and conflict prevention. Norway has committed alliance cooperation in NATO, which is of paramount importance. It is essential for Norway that cooperation between the EU and NATO remains constructive and based on transparency, cooperation and mutual coordination. The Christian People's Party does not support the minority proposals of the Progress Party. We give our support to the setting, as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e475	The President will give the word to Per Ove Wideth, before the change of line starts, to address the suggestions made by the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e478	I have not asked for the word for a reply, but in connection with my introductory statement I am presenting the suggestions from the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e483	The representative Per Ove Wideth has taken up the suggestions he referred to. So it's going to be a line chord change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e488	Also in next year's budget, we can see that the Christian People's Party is proposing a cut in defense in relation to the government's arrangement. At a time of north-field betting and increased focus on international involvement, this is somewhat unexpected from a former central government party. It may be close to asking what the Christian People's Party really wants with the Defense in the years to come, despite the post we just heard from the representative Sahl. Has the Christian People's Party received the clear and unanimous signals from the Defence Policy Committee on the need for increased financial resources for the Defence? Is the lot in line with the selection of that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e495	I can assure the representative Arnesen that the Christian People's Party has taken up the challenges facing the Defence. We will take our responsibility when the forthcoming long-term message is to be discussed in Stortinget. When you are faced with a budget presented by a majority government, it is that a minority party like the Christian People's Party has a number of areas that we, based on our priorities, want to focus on, and that we want to straighten out in relation to the cuts from the majority government. When you start it, and you want to relate to the framework that lies – for that will be the Christian People's Party – you have to do some repriorities. The Christian People's Party has not taken money from the operative side of the Defense. We've taken a cut on Defense Building for 100 million. NOK, where we are postponing some construction projects, and then we have asked for forced sales for 60 million. NOK 160 million in total. kr. But I can reassure the representative Arnesen that there are other areas that had been significantly larger cut in order for us to be shown our profile in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e504	The representative Sahl says a lot positive about the defense, which there is no problem to be on – so I thank you for that! But what's a little bit of a shame is that the Christian People's Party has a 160 million dollars reduction in the defence budget. NOK, which we now heard the explanation. At least I didn't realize that the representative of Sahl was talking about something in particular, was the Home Protection Agency. Home security has been in the process of being reorganized for a long time. There were 83 000 men, and it was cut down to 50,000 – the number of districts for home protection was reduced from 18 to 12–13 – and in the Defense Study 07, it is suggested that the Home Security may go all the way down to 30,000 men. So what's going to be the remainder? I want to hear from the Christian People's Party about what they think about the future of Homeland Protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e511	When it comes to the cut, I've already explained it. Within a tight framework, the Christian People's Party wants to give priority to a number of other areas, and we have done some cuts in different framework areas in the budget. As far as Home Protection is concerned, I can express on the part of the Christian People's Party that we are deeply concerned about caring for it. In the change of line with the Workers' Party representative, I pointed to the decline in the possibilities of Home Protection, both to train staff and to participate in exercises. Now, when we're going to take the long-term message for the Defense, it's one of the areas where the Christian People's Party won't be involved in any major cuts. We are committed to maintaining a protection of homes that is realistic in size compared to the tasks they are responsible for ensuring the security of different social institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e519	I think it was a pleasure to hear that the Christian People's Party is in line with the great majority in the Grand Duchy in terms of the importance of defence. It was underlined here that we need well-qualified teams and good equipment, we need to defend our coast, we need to be prepared for the threat of terrorism against civil society, and we need to be operational internationally. But then to the reality: when you go into the budget, you see, as former replicators have been about, that you have chosen to cut the defense. It's given an explanation of that. But if we look ahead and look at the possibility of a broad settlement where we probably have to increase the defence budget, is the Christian People's Party prepared for that? And won't it be at the expense of possible heart matters for the Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e524	I can reassure the representative Samuelsen that the Christian People's Party will have an offensive attitude towards the long-term announcement of the Defence coming. For a long time, we have been very concerned that we need to have consistency between structure and means. And then we'll see what happens in the structural area, if any. We have had our representative in the Defence Policy Committee, who has been in the majority and recommended that we at least increase the defence budget by NOK 1 billion. That means that there has been a Christian People's Party and given a signal for the future. At the same time, we are strongly concerned with what the head of defence stressed in his defence study, that it is about increasing funds, but it is not least about facilitating a realistic increase every year. It will also take into account and consider when dealing with the long-term message in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e531	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e534	Let me start by expressing that the Center Party is satisfied that the Government is adding up to a significant strengthening of the Army in 2008. The allocation to the Army is actually strengthened by 3.9 pst., or 146 million. kr, compared to 2007. The real increase in the budget for 2007 and 2008 thus totals 455 million. kr. Therefore, over two years the Army will have increased the number of annual works by over 40 p.p., which must be said to be a significant strengthening. This level of annual work is to be kept to a minimum after 2008. Strengthening will contribute to increased capacity for operational activity and training to participate in multinational peace and stabilisation operations under the UN and NATO regime. Cold Response 2008 will not be implemented next year. The reason for this is that the Ministry of Defence and the Chief of Defence prioritize the implementation of the Economic Project of the LOS programme in the Defence. This will probably be an exception to the rule for this annual exercise. At the same time, it is important to look at the large exercise activity of foreign departments coming to Norway in training. This activity will be at about the same level as before next year. A total of NOK 7.7 billion has been allocated to new acquisitions of materials, new buildings and new plants. This level ensures the implementation of ongoing projects such as new frigates, MTB shields, new sea missiles, updating of P-3 Orion, new maritime helicopters, new armoured vehicles, updating of F-16 etc. Continued modernisation of the Heimevater material is a high priority in this budget. The Government will extend the regime of voluntary civil protection soldiers to support the participation of defence sectors in foreign operations. The Central Party considers home security soldiers as a major resource for the Defence and welcomes their voluntary participation in foreign operations where appropriate. The government attaches great importance to the quality reform in Heimevernet and therefore prioritises Heimevernet in 2008. Modernisation of Home Security material must be of high priority. At the same time, it must be an objective to complete the quality reform of the Heimevernet. Sea defence shall focus on maintaining operational activity in the north at the highest possible level. The main challenge for maritime defence in 2008 will be to ensure personnel and competence for the approved maritime defence structure with a focus on the manning of new ships. The centre party expects measures to be taken to facilitate the situation and to ensure operational capacity to the ever-increasing need for maritime defence. The Coast Guard's central task in peacetime is to assert Norwegian sovereignty in our territorial seas and our sovereign rights in sea areas under Norwegian jurisdiction. Through their availability, presence and competence, the Coast Guard shall contribute to credible Norwegian sovereignty and the protection of Norwegian rights and obligations in these areas. The structure of the Coast Guard is modernised by the planned replacement of older vessels and up to 15 vessels will be sailed in 2008. Delaying the phase-in of NH-90 helicopters leads to the continued operation of Lynx helicopters, which unfortunately will reduce helicopter availability in 2008. The coastguard must adapt activity and sailing patterns in 2008 to the new vessels to be put into service and which are somewhat more expensive to operate than the old ones. This is compensated to some extent for the increased capacity and reach of the new vessels. Nevertheless, the need we have for presence and sovereignty in our northern regions calls for a discussion on the number of ships that will soon replace the North Cape class – three pieces today, KV «Nordkap», KV «Senja» and KV «Andenes» – and on the construction of a possible new icebreaker research ship, which will enable KV «Svalbard» to focus better on its primary task, namely coastguard. We are facing major challenges and an exciting debate in the coming days. I hope, as I have stated earlier, that we can reach a broad consensus on the structure of defence and the economic framework of defence in the future. The nation is entitled to that, and I hope that the defense may have a predictability to work underground that serves the great tasks we have in front of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e553	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e556	The central party is a government party and is behind the majority of the budget adopted today. The representative Samuelsen mentioned that there are fewer exercises, but that this is an exception to the rule. Yeah, let's hope so. In addition, the representative says that there is an increase in foreign exercises here. But what does that help the Norwegian soldiers? The question is then: is the representative not afraid that fewer Norwegian exercises will be negative for the Norwegian soldiers, and especially for those who are going to undertake demanding foreign missions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e561	Well, there's a similar concern also at the Center Party in this area, I'll be honest enough to say it. But I see the situation so that we're in an interim period. We will discuss the future structure and the economic framework of defence, so we will have to discuss this in the future debates. The hope is that we come out on the other side with predictability, a good financial framework and a defense capable of fulfilling the priority tasks that we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e566	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e569	Last summer, we openly discussed in this House a report that we had been involved in delivering to the Western Union Parliamentary Assembly. It was a report that discussed on a broad basis safety challenges in the north based on climate change, based on the resource situation. In that report we quoted from a report by the Swedish Defence Research Institute from approx. One year back, starting with saying that we're not entirely politically correct, we don't expect, based on the different scenarios that are about Norway, to be exposed to a large or limited attack on the country as a whole, but we can't rule out, even if it's not the most likely, that we can be subjected to military pressure in the north to achieve a political purpose. I perceive that there was something of the same defense chief said in his own way, and with his responsibility and his background, in his extensive talk in Oslo Military Society. I also experience that during the round we had in the spontaneous questioning session last week, the Minister of Defence had a similar assessment – if not this would be very remarkable. When I start by saying this, it's not to say that this is a return, as we can see from some newspaper comments, back to the cold war, but it's perhaps, as a researcher said it quite soberly, so that the defense chief obviously hopes for the best, but must prepare for the worst, given a number of conditions that are described. When I start out like this, it's to remind you that the challenges of defence in the coming years are geopolitical, in the sense that we obviously take on and carry out tasks far away from Norway, among other things. in Afghanistan, with great strength, but geopolitics are also very important in our own neighbourhoods. That means that what we're doing, it's kind of serious about itself that I'm assuming we're all going to have to take over. At the same time, we have received the defence chief's clinically clear comments in Defense Study 07, which leaves no doubt about which choices you are facing, and which in exactly Norwegian tells us how we have to act if we have a tight financial framework. Both this work and the work done in the Defence Policy Selection take over the Left. We are prepared to enter into a discussion to ensure the defence of predictable framework conditions in the future, but would like to go into that discussion openly and see how we can contribute to it. I would like to ask the Council of State how she intends to follow up on what is in the Defence Policy Committee's recommendation on how to work, and also to remember what the committee's chairman, Jan Petersen, has said earlier, namely that we must not risk getting into a situation where we get into a completely unreasonable time pressure when we are going to deal with the long-term message for the Defence. Behind this long-term message lies the Chief of Defense's study, which is clear, open and familiar, and the setting by the Defence Policy Selection. I choose to return to the general considerations of a country's defence, because in many ways a country's defence can be seen as something about guarding against the unmistakable – thinking of the idea that the unmistakable can occur. Then it is that some of the unmistakable aspects of security policy often occur at a speed and with a strength that one cannot absorb. During the cold war, we all believed that you had a predictability of what was happening. Then we went into a period when we figured that things might be calmer. Then we are in a situation where predictability is obviously less, and where challenges arise, for a country like Norway, which is significant. The challenges I feel are presented with an honest language both by the Defence Manager and in the investigations of the Defence Policy Committee. I will say this in this debate, although it is a debate for the coming financial year. It is also the case in this budget that the Left has done the same for 2008 as we did for 2007, we have shifted some investments, and made it open. We have not won this, so that when we deal with the defence budget, we relate to the framework that exists today. Within that framework, we are pleased that priorities have been set to strengthen the army's ability to fulfil its tasks. It is obvious that our army has significant tasks. It is also obvious that it is under intense pressure to meet these challenges, so that the priorities that have been set have wide support. There has been a certain debate here in the Chamber on national defence – army – home security. In this context, the left is open to the thinking presented in particular. Selection of defence policy: to see both the Army and the Home Office in a broader context over the years to come, so that it is seen as an overall national defence — and to see how many of the historical borders that have been there are no longer to be operated on. It may be a little strange that this is being said, but I think it is important to say it, because I think we have to think differently in this area, just as we have had to think – and think – differently in terms of cooperation with the other Nordic countries, and are also open to thinking about cooperation with other countries in relation to important defence policy investments. With these considerations, I would like to move on to a modest budget chapter, which should actually say that the Minister of Justice had been here today. But I expect the Minister for Defence to take my little greeting, which is now coming, to his colleague in the Government. This is Chapter 451 of the Ministry of Justice's budget, which is dealt with in the Defence Committee. It is the chapter on social vulnerability, which, as its backbone, has the first Willoch Committee and the investigation that came in 2000, and then the second sample that went on critical infrastructure, presented by the former Veritas Manager, Ullring, at the beginning of 2006. I expect that we will have the opportunity to discuss this widely when we get the Vulnerability Notice No. 3 next year. We had such a message in 2002 and a new one in 2004. Then the Defence Committee assumed that we would have such a message every two years. The current government has obviously found for various reasons that it was not necessary to have one in 2006, the more important it is that it comes in 2008. It is this way, as the Committee stresses, that the bodies and structures we have must face the vulnerability, so that we are not suddenly exposed to situations that are about the unmistakable. It's the exact same thing in the field of civil protection as in the field of defence, that you have to think that there can be something unimaginable. What was unimaginable was that we got a fire on Oslo S that suddenly took away much more than what it was supposed to do. I expect – and I am addressing myself through the President of the Secretary of Defense – that this fire, the review of it, and what we are learning from it, is one of the examples you take with you when you present a vulnerability message. It tells us that we have an infrastructure that is, basically, laid out in such a way that when something is hit, you take with you a lot more at the same time than what might have been hit. At the same time, we learn that there are not enough emergency systems to capture this. I expect this to be discussed in the context of the broad exercise Oslo, which we have behind us, and which was a review just to test all the emergency situations in a city like Oslo in relation to a Madrid-like scenario, i.e. the bombs that went off in Madrid in 2004. This civil protection is very important, and I would like to encourage the Defence Committee, which has the field after the Storting has adopted such a working order, to spend a lot of time on this. I would recommend that this be dealt with in detail, because it is important. This part of social vulnerability is also about thinking about overall risk to a society in a different context. In our society, we have very many installations to be protected, including defence and security. We have Gassco, and we have the Kårstø plant. Let me say that I've done some inspections in some of these places -- I'm not going to trust the Storting what I learned then, but I learned at least that there's reason to be critical thoughtful. I want to sum up the critical reflection in this way: Just as we are in defence, we are encouraged to think about the unimaginable a little, so we also have to think about the critical vulnerability of society, in between the idea of the unimaginable – unless we are in danger of falling into situations. With experience in that area, I'd say that if you think about the unimaginable every day, you end up in psychosis, but if you think about it systematically and competently for five minutes a week, you end up in events that shouldn't happen. There are many of these events that can be prevented. I choose to spend so much of my post on this, because I have a certain background to evaluate it. It is with a certain seriousness that I stress the importance of the message that is coming. That message will come at the same time that we get a long-term message for the defense. It will also give the Defence Committee a chance to see these two key areas of society in a context. At the end of this article I will return to where I started. Both the Vice President's lectures and the spontaneous question hour we had last week remind us that Norway is a small country in the world, as some have said, but it's a rich country in the world – we're heading north, and we're next to some of the richest natural resources that are still left in this world. We're also close to a country that's self-conscious in many ways, where management thinks it's painful to have an opposition in front of a choice it seems to win, and yet it seems important to have a little of that opposition. Let me say so that these are climate signals that we should also take with us in a future security and defence policy debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e597	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e601	The left is not in the committee, so you listen extra when the left has a defence post. Both 2007 and 2008 left cut the defence budgets by several hundred million dollars. When other good purposes were to be given priority, the defense did not reach. Rather, it is cut, and money is collected to other areas that the Left prioritizes. I have to understand that the Left believes that the defence has too high appropriations. This has been demonstrated through the 2007 and now 2008 budgets. Is it so that the Left believes that the Defense really has enough funds for next year?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e608	Yeah, what we cut in was investments. I have to admit that we had a debate on investments earlier this year, where the defense suddenly had a rather significant liquidity framework in order to buy new transport aircraft. In that context, I chose to highlight the Left's view of it. We have thought that some of these investments can be shifted, and we have explained that in the financial situation. With regard to the defence situation, we accept the description given, that we have tight budgets and that we are facing a tight situation. That's why I stressed in my post to show full respect for the Chief of Defense's study 07 and also for the range of defence policy. That's why I also said that we're ready to go into discussions about the seriousness of our defense, in the situation we're in. But we also do not conduct fiscal negotiations in the main hall. We haven't. I'm asking for respect for it, because if we're going to go in and take this challenge, we're going to go beyond what I'm chosen to do. But we've got a challenge, and we're willing to discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e617	The representative of Dørum was in his post in many areas, including: Homeland Security. If I understand the representative correctly, the Left will put down today's Home Protection and put it under the Army. The Progress Party does not agree. We're looking at the importance of keeping today's home security. We're looking at how much defense we get with today's home security. Not least, we look at the local intelligence of the Homeland Army, which we can use both in a military crisis and in a civil crisis. For example, I can. In 1995, mention was made of the flood, where the Home Office made a huge effort and saved large resources that no one else could have done in the same way. Does the representative not see that it may be foolish to reduce and remove the unique situation and possibilities of home security?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e626	I didn't say we should shut down Homeland. I've said that the Left is open to discuss what the Defence Policy Committee says, that we should look at Homeland Security and the strength they have. We have said in the Defence Policy Selection through our representative that the minimum number that we accept is 40,000. I'm aware we have 50,000 today. We have said that we should see that in connection with the Army we are going to have. We've also gone into that sample for a larger army. These are proposals that we are going to discuss. This is not to intercept the territorial knowledge that Homeland Protection has, but to try to see where we can have synergies based on systems and thinking. We feel that this has been happening in recent years, and then we are interested in looking at how we can learn more from that development and see how we can use it. This isn't a signal to abolish the territorial knowledge that domestics have, but it's an open signal to think about how we can see the forces that we produce to defend our country territorially, and that we're also going to use out, in a context where it's natural and possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e633	In our development policy, we are all of a number of people who believe that increasing security is important. We are talking about poverty, of course, because without fighting poverty, we cannot get any good guarantees. There is also a debate now on the environment that we are taking it into account in development policy. Can it threaten poverty? But then Dørum is very good when he clearly says that this with vulnerability and security for civil society is also important to go into this debate. We know from international operations that one has to go some international boundaries. But we know that there can be good cooperation effects between military action and civil action. And if you do it the right way, you're going to have a double effect. By putting on military assets without being there with aid and development funds, we're not going anywhere. But my question to Dørum is: is the Left also aware that the environmental and climate threat should be absolutely right in the expanded security operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e642	Yes, it should, because it could be that the environment and climate only reinforce the situations that we see creating instability internationally. We now see that when Western countries are set up to contribute internationally, they have significant problems. We see that from the challenges associated with Darfur. Unfortunately, what we can imagine is that climate change and, for example, climate change. Fighting for water can lead to challenging and unstable situations many, many places on this globe. It is not my intention to go into detail about this now, but it is not challenges that, in my opinion, will weaken the need to have military forces available. There will be very serious situations that will not be reduced by the fact that we have a climate crisis in the background. So it's also the way that we, for example. is in Afghanistan. I want to send a greeting home via the representative to his party trap, the Minister for the Environment, which I think should shift some of his attention from Latin America to Afghanistan. I think he should take some of the aid to Afghanistan and listen to what the chief of defense said in his time. There are many intelligent officers who say wise things, and then they say, "Make sure to give us a civil mandate that makes us know what we're fighting for." This is a greeting from the representative of the Solheim State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e651	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e654	The government is following up the security and defence policy of the Soria Moria Declaration, and attaches great importance to the vigorous continuation of the change in defence. I am pleased to note that the Committee's position – and the debate so far today – shows that there is a broad and fundamental consensus on the broad lines of the transition work and in the security and defence policy in general. This broad consensus is essential for us to succeed in the further modernisation of defence. We agree that one of the main regional challenges for Norway is the exploitation of natural resources in the major northern seas, while the area remains of great military strategic importance. And the northern regions are the government's main bet area. Recent developments in military activity show the need for increased focus on the north. A continued stable development in the north, based on a consistent and predictable Norwegian policy in the area, as well as constructive cooperation both with Russia and with our allies and other partner countries, are key objectives of the Government. Defence is one of the main tools of the Government to follow up the objective of continued stable development in the northern regions through its ability to monitor, uphold and exercise sovereignty. In 2008, the government will continue the increased activity of Defence in the north, an increased activity that was facilitated by budgetary increases in this field both in 2006 and 2007. The government is very active in resolving international security challenges with broad consensus enshrined in the principles of the UN Charter and international law. At the same time, it is a central objective of the Government to contribute to the maintenance of the collective defence guarantee in NATO as a credible guarantee of the political sovereignty and territorial integrity of Norway and allied countries. The Government proposes to strengthen the budget chapter for Norwegian forces abroad in 2008. I note that the Committee agrees that only foreseeable operations are included in the budget. Therefore, proposals for the allocation of the single Norwegian-Swedish contribution to the UN/AU operation in the Darfur province of Sudan in 2008 are not included in the budget, but the Government will come back to the Storting when the framework for such a contribution is fully clarified, so that the costs can be accurately calculated. I will answer the committee leader's questions as to whether this force will be deployed in January. To that it is to say that it is uncertain, but really the plan is to deploy the entire UNAMID force on 1 January. I record that there is now an intense diplomatic process going on, including in the Security Council, to put in place the much-needed UN operation in Darfur. What I also know is that there is a very strong desire in the United Nations that the Norwegian-Swedish contribution should become a reality, because even if it is not so great, it is significant in capacity, and it could mean a lot in Darfur. As far as the ISAF operation is concerned, in 2008, as I have consulted the bodies of Storting on earlier, we will strengthen our PRT by up to 100 people. In addition, we will send three helicopters, with about 70 personnel, in support of PRT in Meymaneh. The reaction force in Mazar-e-Sharif is continued for the first half of 2008. We also aim to send a Special Forces Department with up to 150 personnel to the Kabul area. Furthermore, the Government will increase the effort to train and train the Afghan army. The increase will range from around 10 people today to about 50 from the autumn of 2008. Regarding Chad, there have also been speculations about the use of the Nordic effort force, the EU Battle Group. As I also stated in the Stortingen last week, it cannot be ruled out that it will be a reality, but there has been no formal request to Norway. If it comes, I'll come back to Stortinget with it. It would be possible to use this intervention force in Chad, but so far this is not clear. At least it is not relevant for Norway, for capacity reasons, to participate further in this force in Chad, as we now see it. Defence Policy Selection and Defence Manager’s Defence Study 07 have addressed the key issues related to the further development of the defence. The Government will incorporate the assessments and recommendations submitted into the overall balances and priorities to be made. So far no conclusions have been drawn on the future structure of defence, nor on geographical location. As is well known, the government will present its assessments and recommendations in the long-term proposition submitted to the Stortinge late winter 2008. Then, hopefully, I also had the black representative Dørum, who was worried that we would spend too long on the long-term plan. It will be released and the Storting in her before Easter, so that it should be reasonable with time for the Storting to work on it. With a budget proposal of DKK 31.5 billion, a high level of the defence budget is being continued. The level of funding of the current long-term plan thus becomes better than in previous long-term periods, approximately. 98 pst. The implementation of migration targets and operational activities is a priority in 2008, which I believe is a broad consensus. The army, with the Government's proposal, will have a real budget increase in 2007 and 2008 of 455 million in total. kr. The reinforcement of the Army has given rise to a significant increase on the personnel side as well. The number of annual works has increased by 40 pst. in the last two years, which absolutely strengthens the operational capacity of the Army and hence Norway's ability to fulfil the obligations we have towards the UN and NATO. Despite the fact that not all of the reported needs can be met and not all of the targets can be met in 2008, I would like to stress that all of the defence sectors, including the Coast Guard and Home Protection, in the present draft budget have been effectively strengthened, because Defence Building and the Defence Logistics Organisation can deliver their services at a lower price than before. As part of the Northern Territory Initiative of the Government, the Coast Guard budget has increased in real terms in 2006 and 2007. The Coast Guard is therefore a clear budget winner over several years. The Government proposes to continue the 2008 budget at the same high level as in 2007. The Coast Guard is in a period of new acquisitions and restructuring. New helicopters and new vessels are acquired that are adapted to the changed tasks of Defence and Defence in the north. We get a coastguard that's adapted to the future, that's effective, and that's the ability to solve the assigned tasks along the coast and in the adjacent sea areas. The phasing out of worn-out material with new, larger and efficient platforms must therefore be seen as very positive. In this context, it is important to point out that the number of days sailing, irrespective of quality, is not a reasonable measure of the effectiveness of the Coast Guard. Maritime defense reports that they are very pleased with the developments that are now taking place in the Coast Guard. The Committee notes that the main challenges of maritime defence in 2008 will be to secure personnel and build competence in the approved structure of the Maritime Defence Agency, focusing on the manning of new ships as these phases are introduced. We take this challenge very seriously, and several measures have been taken. Among other things, detailed training plans are in place to meet the staff and competence needs of the frigates. The maritime defence has also changed its education system with a view to ensuring adequate personnel with the appropriate professional competence. Allowances for admission to the Maritime War School have increased compared to 2006. Total investment, excluding NATO investments, is proposed to be strengthened compared to 2007, with special priority being given to investment in property, construction and civil engineering. As a result of the significant price increase in the construction sector, there has been a need to increase the cost framework for several construction projects, inter alia. multipurpose hall on Shield and educational and management buildings on Setermoen. The market-driven price rise creates an increased pressure on the cost framework of several approved projects. We all agree that the defence's exercise activities are very important for the development of operational capability. I therefore agree with the Committee that it would be desirable to be able to carry out the Cold Response exercise in 2008 as well, but will add that it is entirely acceptable to wait with a new, larger winter exercise until 2009. The Chief of Defence and the Ministry of Defence will take a closer look at the cycle of major exercises in Norway. This work is in progress. Defence and the Ministry of Defence consider it very important to implement the Economic Project of the LOS programme as soon as possible and that this needs to be prioritised in 2008. At the discretion of the head of defence, it would be too risky to implement both the Cold Response and the Economic Project at the same time, because there are a lot of overlapping staff working on the two projects – the exercise and the Economic Project. I would like to stress that the defenses are to some extent compensated for the loss of exercise Cold Response in 2008. Furthermore, host country support for foreign departments coming to training in Norway will be implemented as planned. I note that the Committee has noted that the draft budget states that the operational situation becomes demanding for several departments, not least the Defence Logistics Organisation, and that the Committee is aware that several of the defence workers' organisations are concerned about the balance between the reductions imposed by the FLO and what the operational activity requires of logistics and support functions. The representative Signe Eye was also concerned about this. Although operational activities are given priority, as I see it as a broad consensus, the Government sees it as important to ensure a good balance between operational activity and logistics and support functions. In this context, it is important to take into account that direct operational support logistics is absolutely necessary for operational capability and should therefore be done under the Defence’s own direction. We will therefore follow this issue very closely in 2008. The initial call for protective ratings shall be conducted in 2008 according to the needs of the defence and shall be continued at approximately the same level as in the current year. Calls for voluntary sessions have been given a good start and the number of girls making up the session in 2008 is expected to be at least as high as in the current year. The financial compensation of the soldiers who have completed the service for 12 months is proposed to be increased by 9 pst. to NOK 25 000 from 1 January 2008. Since 2005, this compensation has thus increased by 67 p.m., from 15 000 kroner to 25 000 kroner. The government emphasises the implementation of measures that will ensure recruitment and take care of personnel. Furthermore, we are working on a variety of measures to strengthen the follow-up of veterans from international operations. This is something that I have noticed that the Committee also stresses the importance of its position. Here the Committee stresses the importance of rapid clarification of these matters, and I can confirm that this will be followed closely. I would otherwise like to inform you that the amount of compensation for personnel who die but do not have custody responsibility was raised from 4 G to 10 G with effect from 1 November 2007. The allocation of defence music is proposed to increase and the activity in 2008 should therefore increase compared to 2007. Finally, let me stress that the defence, after the Stoltenberg I government started the changeover in 2001, has succeeded in achieving the main objectives of the transition, i.e. to establish improved capability, i.e. ability to solve problems. We have thus received a significantly more relevant defence than when the conversion started. In 2008, this will be followed up by a defence budget in accordance with the Government’s objectives in the Soria Moria Declaration, which ensures high level operational deliveries and preparedness, while ensuring the continuation of the transfer of defence. Finally, let me just answer a question from the representative Dørum about the social security message that is expected next year. I want to take with me the points of view that have come. The focus on social security is very important. The planned notification of civil and military preparedness will be ready in 2008, and all experience from events and exercises will, of course, have to be reflected in this communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e715	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e718	Of course, the Council of State is hanging around and mentioning quite a lot about the Soria Moria declaration initially. Then she thinks about the defense's investment in the northern areas. As far as I've registered, these are just words. Then I have to ask the Council of State: what are the specific activities she intends to pursue in the northern regions? I'm having trouble seeing what it is. Similarly, I have to ask the Council of State how she believes the Government in the draft budget presented meets the Air Force's need for operational resources. When we see the Russian aviation activity and all the activity the Air Force is engaged in and implementing, I can't see that the budget level in 2008 has increased compared to the current year. This means that other air defence activities, such as: Maritime surveillance, need to be down-prioritized?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e725	The Soria Moria Declaration strongly underlines the focus on the northern areas as the main focus of the Government. We've focused on that from day one. We have also done so through our budgets and political will, among other things. increase in the activity of the Coast Guard. We've focused heavily on the surveillance planes. For our fighter planes, 9500 hours are planned for next year. As far as the Air Force budget is concerned, although there is a decrease in the operating budget, there is a real increase precisely because – as I also said in my post – the Defence Logistics Organisation and Defence Building provide cheaper services. This will also give the Air Force more money back.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e733	Every time the Council of State talks about Soria Moria, you get the impression that it's year zero. It seems a little funny when you see it in terms of reality. But that was not why I took the floor. What I wanted to talk about was the process related to the long-term program. It's not to avoid that there's going to be some hard roofs. FS 07 is notifying them. If there is to be peace and consensus on the outcome, I think it is important that everyone feels that they have reached and that they get the necessary insight into the process and the premises behind the conclusions. Everyone doesn't feel that way at this stage. Therefore, there are questions about whether the ministry will now ensure that there is an open, transparent process in which you are willing to discuss numbers and premises with all those particularly affected and whether you want to establish such a practice. The alternative is that the Storting gets involved in this kind of process. We're not very well prepared for that, so it would have been very desirable if these things were sorted out before the matter comes to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e742	I'm very concerned that the process associated with the long-term plan will be a good and inclusive process. At the same time, as it is not long since Defence Study 07 was presented and the Defence Policy Selection presented its report, the Government is at the beginning of its work on this. I think it is quite reasonable that factual information relating to numbers should be made available as much as possible so that everyone can obtain the information that is necessary. Then I also want to say that we are now striving very hard to get through the long-term plan, so that it may be the Storting in her before Easter. Easter is coming early next year – and I hope that at least it will give the Storting the necessary time after Easter to go thoroughly into this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e749	The Minister placed great emphasis on the challenges in the north in his speech, which is also evident in the proposition. At the same time, it states that these are essentially non-military challenges, linked to the exploitation of natural resources in the area. This is also agreed by the Christian People's Party. It is largely about social security. My question to the Minister of Defence is whether she will contribute to this becoming an important topic in the social security message that we will get to spring – the link between Defence and civil society to take care of the natural resources in the north. The experience with the general North Region bet is that there has been a great deal of word and not money. We also see that Defence Study 07 has a strong rationalization in the north. My question to the Minister is whether the North Region's defence effort is going to be something more than words.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e758	As I have also said very strongly, our government has placed the northern areas high on the agenda in all areas. I fully agree with what is said, that it is not primarily a military challenge in the north; it is just as much an environmental challenge, a climate challenge related to oil and gas, and the extraction of energy. Nevertheless, it is such that we must arrange our defence so that it is possible to be present if an unforeseen situation should arise. So that's how we use the defense in the north every single day in the civil context. Coast Guards ensure that we manage fish resources in a good way. Environmental monitoring is also carried out. We also have the border guard who every day guards the border in the north. So the defense is also widely used in civil matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e765	Many assessments and advice are provided in the submission of the Defence Policy Selection. One of the advice given is how you think you're going to keep working on the work that's been done. It's of course given by an independent sample. My question to the Council of State is whether she has come up with any thoughts on how to deal with this part of the advice given in the Defence Policy Survey?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e770	What was perhaps the most impressive thing about the results of the Defence Policy Survey was the broad consensus reached between both the politicians who made up the sample and the experts who had been included there. They follow a tradition when they want the consensus on defence policy to be as broad as possible when working on a new long-term plan. Of course, that's also a goal for us. It is important that there is a broad consensus on defence policy. I also feel here today that there is a very broad consensus on the big lines, and as I mentioned earlier, I am concerned that we are going to work here to get to a process as inclusive as possible. Then we'll see how it can happen in practice, but I'm absolutely willing to discuss it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e777	In November this year’s journal ‘Norges Defence’, we read the following: ‘I’m not threatening’ And on the other hand, ‘Proposals for reductions and reductions are not a deliberate black paint. It's also not something I want, or threaten; it's the consequence of flat budgets. – This is pure mathematics, says the Chief of Defense. Two heavy investigations are now on the table – Defence Policy Selection and Defence Study 07. Both point out that if no more money is given, it is against the overthrow of the defence." Is the Council of State comfortable with the developments we have in the Defence and Defence economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e792	I don't want to be part of a black paint on the defense, and I don't feel that's what the head of defense is saying. But it is clear that we see challenges in the long term if nothing is done to create the balance that has been called for between the appropriations given and the structure that we have. So it might be right to change some of that structure, no matter how much money we have. These include: about staff, how we use personnel, how we manage to recruit personnel, and how we manage to exploit what we actually have, which then becomes a scarcity. This work is what we are going to work on in connection with the long-term plan, which the Storting will in turn receive treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e799	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e802	Is the Defense standing at another new dividing line? Is there enough money allocated to a defense we want, or is it just a few extra dollars compared to previous budgets to get some rest? In fact, the defense is getting a slight increase in crowns, but everyone knows that there is a real decrease due to increased prices and increased wages. The defence budget follows a trend from the previous budget, which continues to be a downward trend. The promises made through the adopted long-term plans are not followed up. Therefore, the defence does not have the necessary predictability in relation to the economy and organisation. The result is that the defence is put in a difficult situation when it comes to carrying out the tasks assigned to it. Today's draft budget will go beyond the daily activity of weapons. As a result, there will be fewer exercises and worse equipment than suggested for the coming and increasingly serving in the various arms branches. It is added that you cut out large exercises to save money for operation, and it will therefore hardly be practiced in the Army in 2008. This will also undermine the ability of the Defence Agency to participate in international operations. The budget does not reflect the government's so-called Northern Territory bet. There is no greater strengthening of the presence in the northern regions. The budget will lead to a new uncertainty in relation to the forthcoming long-term notification of the size and form of defence. In summary, we note that material acquisitions will not be sufficient in relation to the adopted structure. The level of activity of the weapons will have to continue at a low level. The staff situation will remain unclear in relation to structural decisions. Acquisition processes will be pushed out in time. But the biggest challenge is the phase-in of new frigates and the upcoming new MTBs. It is not economic either to operate the ships or to hire crews. In addition, we have Defence Study 07, and there is no ludicrous reading for those who want a strong and robust defence – a defense that can solve the tasks that the Storting puts them to work out. Unless the financial means to solve these tasks are so dramatic: in order to solve some of the tasks in an approved way, it is necessary to cut costs, and then there may be fewer presences in some places — i.e. at 12 locations – and vessels may, for example: is added to the dock to be forgotten, even if you have invested 5 billion dollars just in these. If you look at how the defence budget has changed from 1970 to today, this is very dramatic. In 1970 it was almost 14 p.m., and today it is about 14 p.m. 4 pst. This says a lot. The imbalance between the structure and the budget has intensified. Although the conversion has been in progress for a long time, it may seem that the defense has still not managed to change quickly enough. Defence is still in a highly structured situation for the economic resources available. This underfunding is not a new phenomenon. The imbalance between adopted defence structure and economic framework conditions was also a real challenge before 1990, during a period when defence budgets increased every year. Nor would the current defence structure adopted by the Stortinge in 2004 be sustainable over time if the historical budgetary developments that we have experienced since 1990 continue. The FFI estimates show that the annual costs of operating and renewing the current adopted defence structure will lie approximately. DKK 4 billion above such an annual budget level for the period 2009-2012. In the following period, the difference is even greater. The imbalance primarily affects the operational capacity of the defence, because material investments, exercises and other training activities have to be postponed or cancelled in order to obtain money to operate an excessive structure. Another consequence of the imbalance between defence structures and available resources is that economic decisions can be marked by short-termity and end up as seeming waste, which unfortunately we have seen several examples in recent years. Nor does it create credibility for most people's defenses. The structural/budget imbalance has also led to an imbalance between defence capabilities. Large investment decisions have often been taken on the basis of expectations that the size of the defence would remain unchanged in the future. But while individual platforms, such as aircraft and ships, have become increasingly expensive, budgets have not been followed. After all this has been said, what can save the Defense and make the Defense able to carry out all the orders they receive, satisfactorily and could tell the Stortinget and the Norwegian people that the order has been executed? Well, that answer has three letters, and that's FrP. The Progress Party wants a defence policy and a defence based on the challenges we face in today's and tomorrow's societies, and is concerned that defence must be of such a nature that it can easily be adapted to the different threats. The Progress Party believes that this can best be ensured by maintaining a fundamental defence with core tasks on Norwegian soil, but with the capacity to participate in operations elsewhere in the world. We see challenges in the fact that in recent years large and very valuable deposits of oil and gas have been discovered in the major sea areas under our responsibility, as well as in the rich fish stocks in Norwegian waters. We see that Norway's unexplained border and responsibilities in these areas increase the risk of conflicts and crises – crises that it could be highly desirable for us to be able to deal with ourselves, with our own resources, because it could be escalating if we withdraw allies. The Progress Party recalls that ever since Norway acceded to the UN Treaty, we have been obliged to participate in international peace operations. When NATO went in to extend its commitment to this too, our commitments in this area increased accordingly. We see the necessity of this kind of commitment within a level that is sound in view of our crew and material resources. In this context, it is particularly important to continue and develop the strategic partnership with the United States. This presupposes that the overall bilateral relations with the United States must be managed in a way that strengthens the ties. The Progress Party is concerned that Norway should be able to have as far as possible a defence with the widest possible anchoring of the population. This can best be ensured by a protective defence. We believe it is important to stimulate the widest possible provision of first-time services and that first-time services are meaningful. Professionalism is more up-to-date with the new and extended tasks of Defence. Greater incentives need to be provided for the recruitment of staff for foreign service and emergency services. We are concerned that the employees of the Defence, both military and civilian, must be guaranteed predictable working conditions. Because of all of this, the Progress Party has increased the defence budget by NOK 2 billion, and especially to the sharp end of the Defense, and has had a greater focus on our northern regions. The party of progress records that only in the Army is 500 new orders needed to solve the problems that the Army has. We have strengthened the Maritime Defense with operational means, as we want, among other things, to Our frigates and after each MTB shall be usable. We are increasing the allocation to the Air Force, among others. for monitoring our northern territories, and for international missions. We strengthen Home Protection in order to carry out necessary and time-consuming training and education: The Advance Party also understands that the equipment of Home Protection must be renewed all the time. The Progress Party also looks with concern at the fact that the FLO is not always in a position to provide material and services to the operational departments in demand. That's how I can keep going. At these times, it is also important to have a strong focus on all girls and boys who are abroad on assignments. Training and equipment shall be in order and of the best variety. And when they come back, there will be an apparatus that can help those who need it, and that all rights will be present. We owe it to those who are willing to sacrifice their lives for peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e853	Our red-green government has presented its second overall government budget. With this budget, we are taking new, important steps towards achieving the objectives we have set in the Soria Moria Declaration. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the northern regions are Norway's main strategic focus in the coming years. The government is working specifically to ensure that the region is characterised by security, stability and sustainable development. The current activity of defence in the region is a central part of the work of this objective. Focus is placed on visible military presence with relevant capabilities for sovereignty enhancement, exercise of authority, monitoring, intelligence and crisis management. A strengthened military presence shall be part of the Northern bet. In the 2008 defence budget, the government shows that it is paying €31.5 billion for defence. In concrete terms, this means that the army budget is given priority, with a significant real strengthening, compared to 2007. It is also a real strengthening of the other defenses, including the Coast Guard and the Home Guard. However, I would like to stress that there will also be challenges for the defence in 2008, which are reflected in tough priorities such as: the operating side. In the following I will go into the individual chapters of the budget where I have been responsible for the matter. In the case of the Army, I'm satisfied that the grant is actually strengthened by 3.9 pst. Or 146 million. kr, compared to 2007. The real increase in the budget for 2007 and 2008 thus totals 455 million. kr. As a result, the Army has been able to increase the number of annual works by over 40 pst. over two years. At my discretion, this must be regarded as a significant strengthening. Now I'm not going to say that everything is perfect, and that there are no challenges in the Army. The 2008 budget points to a minimum number of annual works to be continued and the further build-up of the Army will take a little longer and therefore extend into the next long-term. As regards the proposed increase in the Army budget for 2008, it shall contribute to strengthening the capacity for operational activity and training to participate in multinational peace and stabilisation operations under the UN and NATO regime. The Defence Logistics Organisation, the FLO, is facing a particularly demanding operational situation in 2008. The reason is that the FLO budget has been proposed to be reduced by 142.8 million in real terms. kr from the aged budget in 2007. In the open consultation on the budget, the Defence Committee was informed that several of the defence workers’ organisations are concerned that there is no compliance between the FLO reduction requirements and what the operational activity requires of logistical and support functions. I am pleased that these signals are also captured by the Council of State, and that the development and cost situation in the FLO are closely monitored in the coming time. Last year, as last year, I would like to refer to the budgetary position's remark that 'annual frameworks must be considered as a tool, but they must not stand in the way of establishing solutions that are totally economical'. Despite this, we have been made aware of the introduction of an additive stop, while extensive use of rentals is being made. I find it unintelligible that a letter from the FLO was sent that the annual work frameworks should be respected despite the fact that the order books are full and it would clearly pay to hire people permanently instead of using large sums on rent. I therefore expect a close and good dialogue with the employee organisations in this area. As far as the Coast Guard is concerned, I am pleased that the Government, through the prioritisation of the northern regions, has introduced significant real increases in the allocation of the Coast Guard in recent years. This high level is proposed to continue in 2008. The central task of the Coast Guard in peacetime is to assert Norwegian sovereignty in the Norwegian territorial sea and sovereign rights in sea areas under Norwegian jurisdiction. Through their availability, presence and competence, the Coast Guard shall contribute to credible Norwegian sovereignty and the protection of Norwegian rights and obligations in these areas. I have noticed that the structure of the Coast Guard is being modernised by the planned replacement of older vessels, and that up to 15 vessels will be sailed in 2008. Furthermore, we see that delayed phase-in of NH-90 helicopters means that Lynx helicopters still have to operate, which will reduce helicopter availability in 2008. The 2008 budget shows that the Coast Guard must adapt its activities and sailing patterns to the new vessels to be put into service and which are somewhat more expensive to operate than the old ones. However, I would like to show that this is largely compensated for by the increased capacity and reach of the new vessels. In the media, complaints have recently been made that the Coast Guard is not being put on duty because the number of patrol days is falling. To this I would say that I have noticed that the production in the Coast Guard, among other things. be measured in the number of patrol days. However, Patrol Day alone says little about the effect of the Coast Guard's work. Instead, it should be agreed that proper control at the right place in a timely manner also depends on the overall picture of the situation and the decision-making basis established, inter alia. through surveillance and air defence maritime patrol aircraft are an important part of the operations of the Coast Guard. I would therefore like to emphasise once again that the Coast Guard has received significant real increases both in 2006 and 2007 and that this high level is proposed to continue in 2008. I am also pleased that the activity of the Coast Guard in the north is given priority in 2008. We have strengthened the Coast Guard because everyone sees what an important social task it represents, and we need to follow developments closely in the future. In the future, it is important to establish a long-term balance between defence tasks, structure and economy. Both the Defence Manager's study FS 07 and the Defence Policy Selection have pointed out that continued budgetary development of the Defence as from 1990 until now, regardless of government, will mean a gradual reduction and liquidation of the Defence as a result of declining purchasing power. For this reason, I would like to stress the need for a long-term and predictable economic recovery if we want a robust and strong defence. The defence has been through a period of significant changes, during which the burden on the defence organisation has been great, not least in terms of human resources. We have to realize that there is no longer room for 'hospitaling' in terms of defence savings. We also need to take into account employees who are tired of the constant changes. For the defence, it is now important that we set out a course with a long-term perspective and with predictable framework conditions for tomorrow's challenges. We must provide peace and security around the Defence – internally and not least in society as a whole. I'm glad that our red-green government is working purposefully for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e894	Increased activity in the north and a Russia that has come to the fences and once again wants to demonstrate its role as a major power, has led many to open their eyes to the developments we see in the Defense. I think we'll see an opinion that's going to be interested in defence policy issues in a different way than before, and we're going to be happy about that. There's no need to provoke enemy images, and we're finally going to hope that our relations with Russia will be so that we don't have to have saberrasling as part of the language between us. But again, Russian submarines are in our waters, and once again, Russian planes are trying our defenses' attention through constantly moving along the Norwegian coast. In our desire to build good and peaceful relations, we must not become historyless and naive. We have strong interests to care for, and we must show will and have the ability to have a visible military presence. Unfortunately, we have seen that the defence budget has had a bleak tendency to become a balancing item in the budget struggle for funds for many good purposes. Unfortunately, the attention to the defence of opinion has been significantly focused on noise related to conversions to new tasks and perhaps not to the desired extent on what important tasks the defence will have for Norway. Festive figures have been numerous and, at all intersections, the funds have been reduced without sufficient intervention by the authorities that the tasks also need to be adapted. This development must be reversed. And it has to be snuffed before we've come so far in slowing down that a reverse becomes an invincible lift. As the representative Petersen has explained, the Right has taken this into account and proposes an increase in the defence budget. If the government parties at this crossroads do not follow the example of the Right, I hope at least that it can be an inspiration to stop the further degradation we have seen. The first important test piece will be the treatment of the Defence Manager’s study, or the rolling of the long-term plan. The Chief of Defense's study is characterised by a legitimate indication from the Chief of Defense that we cannot live over time with a disproportionate capacity on one side and a lack of appropriations on the other. The Defence Manager has proposed drastic measures, such as closures and severe cuts, if the Storting does not give other signals. One example of this is the closure of Jørstadmoen, which today houses the Defence Competence Centre for Command, Control and Information Systems. Base Jørstadmoen is a full-time provider of operational strategic competence, systems and materials in modern communications and information systems for Defence. This unit was established a few years ago and is special in so far as it goes across the traditional divisions of weapons. This and several other issues that will be addressed in the roll-out of the long-term plan will focus on closures and conversions with far-reaching grips and long-term significance for defence. It is imperative that the Storing in this process be presented with a transparent numbering material describing alternatives and the military professional and numerical premises at the bottom of them. Of course, the main premise must be the defence that Norway should have, and not how far the appropriations go. The defence must not appear as a wing-cut conclusion to a saving plan. We want a reinforced defence that also stands after the parties are over in the forthcoming proceedings. Then it's an important point that the Storting and the opinion feel a anchoring and a ownership of the decisions you make. The point here, of course, is that alternatives and a number material that you feel secure must also be presented. We know we're going to get into tough discussions in many contexts. It's important that when you walk out of those battles, you have a good feeling around them, and you know that you've contributed to the best of the defenses. Without this, there is a great danger that the Defence will again become a balancing item when the annual budgets are adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e913	The Progress Party wants a defence policy and a defence based on the challenges we face in 2008 and later years. The nature of the defence must be such that it can be easily adapted and managed by the various threat images. The main task of the defence must be to take care of all defence situations that may arise on Norwegian soil. Part of the Defence must have the capacity to participate in international operations where NATO or the United Nations need Norwegian forces. It is very important that Norwegian forces on water, on land and in air can work with our allies. This is our best assurance that when we need assistance, we get it through our allies. Bilateral reinforcement agreements on personnel and material will in future be the cornerstone of our defence. Norway needs to develop and continue the strategic partnership with the United States. In order to achieve this, it is important that general bilateral relations with the United States be managed in such a way that links between our countries are strengthened. Pre-storage of US military equipment as well as joint training with US forces on Norwegian soil are immeasurably important. In recent years, the Progress Party has proposed significant increases in the red-green budgets, as is the case with the 2008 budget. In 2006, the negative trend in the defence budgets in recent years led Chief of Defense Denen to say in his annual speech that if developments continued, the defence could be wound up within 15–20 years. It is therefore important to point out that the 2008 budget cannot be a legislative instrument for the next long-term economic framework. The Progress Party is concerned that the steady reduction in the defence budget will go beyond the sharp end of the Defence. A clear proof is that the Great Allied Exercise Cold Response will not be completed in 2008. Such exercises with our allies form the backbone of joint operations. It is difficult to understand that the phase-out of the economic project in the LOS programme in defence is the main reason why a major allied exercise needs to be cancelled. In the 2005 Soria Moria Declaration, the Government states that the northern regions are Norway’s main strategic focus in the coming years. The reason for this is that the north has gone from just being a security policy area to becoming a very large energy policy area. The Progress Party supports the Soria Moria Declaration of the Government regarding the importance of strong Norwegian activity in the northern regions. The defence must demonstrate the presence and sovereignty of the sea area and of the Svalbard zone. This requires both frigates, MTBs, coastguard ships and submarines in addition to the support of Orion, AWACS and fighter aircraft. Leaders from both November 2007 defence reports on reducing the number of frigates and scraping MTBs in the Skjold class must be rejected. The Progress Party will work hard during the preparation and processing of the forthcoming long-term plan to ensure that the Marine is not impaired either by crew or by equipment. Without a strong marine, our preparedness in the north region becomes a little credible. Based on today’s activities, the focus on the northern regions in the general security debate will grow more and more in the coming years. Today the army is strongly present in Troms, and there will be an ever greater need for the Army's presence also in Finnmark. The protection of our marine and marine wealth is at least as important in Finnmark as in the rest of the North. In addition, the political situation needs to be protected. The Progress Party will work for a strong defence which will be able to carry out all the assigned tasks in the country. In addition, we will also ensure that Norwegian forces for international missions are set up with the best equipment available on the market. These sharp tasks are very demanding, and our soldiers who are willing to sacrifice their lives in the service of the country must have top modern equipment. This requires greater defence budgets in the future than has been the case in recent years. As one of the richest countries in the world, we can afford this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e939	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e942	It is not to be avoided that this budget debate is also influenced by the process of the defence study. In 2001, the then Labour Party government chose to go in for the integration of the Ministry of Defence and the Chief of Defence Staff. This was disputed and encountered opposition in Stortinget. I believe that in the debate and follow-up of Defence Study 07, we will seriously see the challenge of this organisation being for the political decision-making process. When the main principle of the defence manager also for this defence study is to assume that the greatest possible defence is to be obtained from the financial framework available, there will be a clear discussion of the economic premises in the study. Then the Storting is in the situation that those who are to ensure the quality of the defense study's premises are the same people who are responsible for the study itself. I want to warn against such a strategy. If we compare what demands are made in advance of transport investment, it is obvious that the government must use external competence to count on the head of defence's study, in order for the decision base of the Storting to be sufficient as a basis for large investment decisions. In 2001, Stortinget decided to establish a joint operating headquarters at Jåttå, for example: ensuring the presence of NATO in Norway. This was combined with a Northern Norway sub-command, which was to take care of the defence's domestic activities, which are taking place mainly in that part of the country. Large investments have been made and are still being made on Jåttå, both from the Norwegian side and by the NATO alliance. In the case of the defence study proposals, the actual facility will be completed at about the time the relocation is due to begin. These investments are not included in the study. The relationship with NATO is not a topic. In addition, the movement is justified by the North. The number of persons to be rationalised away as a result of the move corresponds to the current crew of the sub-state command. The result of this is that the same number of people who are currently directing our operations abroad should also direct the activity domestically. You don't need a big background from Defense to understand that with the intensity of our operations abroad, these will not be able to focus more on the north than their current colleagues on Reitan. Selling a conversion that means that the Northern Norway sub-command is being dismantled as a strengthening of our focus in the northern regions is, to put it mildly, alarming. In any case, NATO is not going to be included in the displacement drawer. Poorer infrastructure on Jåttå as a result of moving can quickly lead to their moving drawer going south instead. It is worth remembering that one of the challenges we face in NATO cooperation is to keep attention to Norway and the north. This work will be even more difficult if NATO is not permanently present on Norwegian soil. Thus, SV can say that they did not succeed in getting Norway out of NATO, but in government they succeeded in getting NATO out of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e955	Today's debate has been marked by a great deal of concern for the defence budget. But this has been happening since 1990. One has had a clear decline in the budget in relation to GNI and in relation to the State budget. However, the defence has proved its worth. So it has come out, when you look at what the defense does in practice, that the defense changes without a complete notice of it in this hall. Barents Rescue is an exercise in relation to the new tasks, not old battleground exercises. Then we also see that the old, self-imposed limitations that have our Norwegian line all the time are there. It does not seem that this House has got this all along, when someone can say that the American foremen currently in use are not in the North, but in Afghanistan and Iraq, and are something we have to hold hard on. I'm not so sure. And then we see that out there is the defense in front with its invading SIMIC, and follows up on what a really should do in terms of reconstruction and stabilisation. One is capable of being present and creating security, so that voluntary organisations, aid organisations, can make their work the best possible. I am impressed that the defense so clearly, in practice and through those who are out of surgery, manages this. I thought that this room would bring with it the defence every day: working with aid organisations, with criminal services, with Norwegian police and with European police. We have to consider what they actually do in practice, and the changes that are in practice. It would be strange if we couldn't do it. Then I also see that other countries notice that we can save a lot of money on cooperating with other countries, like Sweden. There's a huge potential here. I note that this room has not completely taken over the fact that this year there are signed agreements both by the Defence Director and by the Minister of Defence. These are two bilateral agreements. At the same time, we have signed an agreement with Iceland. We were right there 14 days after the Danes. There's a lot of changes going on. It's a little disappointing to see that it seems that a lot of parties, especially from the opposition, do not record these major changes in Norwegian defence and security policy – and most importantly that it actually happens in practice, without one from many parties even addressing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e966	I have noticed that during the debate in the Chamber today, the distance between the Right and the Advance Party is also very great, and the only thing that remains is that they are starting to take a line between each other – again. In the case of the representative Dørum, who was concerned about social security and preparedness, it is very positive that he addresses it. I am the case rapporteur in this area, and I should also have said something in my post. But the Minister of Justice has already started a work on this, so the message will come, and it will be fine. But there's also every reason to look at how we now get a good message, not least in relation to recent events. In the case of the Christian People's Party and the representative of Sahl, I do not feel convinced that he believes that the defence needs more money. It will always be like this – not just in 2007 and 2008 that you need to prioritise other things. He says that within a tight framework, the Christian People's Party wants to give priority to other areas. Yes, it can also repeat itself in 2009. The representative Bredvold black paints from a to t. But it's actually not that the Army shouldn't practice until next year. The army has a good budget. That should be all reason why the Army should be able to practice so that it is able to carry out the tasks they are going to do. We notice that there is an army that is getting better year after year. I have noticed that several right-wing representatives already want to start the localisation debate with regard to the next long-term plan. It's a little early. We're going to deal with this very carefully. But it shows and gives hope that the Storting will again be concerned with defence – and I am pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e979	Just two points – one for Bjørn Jacobsen. I think his perception of what others in the hall have perceived, well not entirely in line with reality, but I think he might rather find it out on his own, instead of using the Storting's time to explain it one more time. That's the one. The other thing, which is more important, is that I observe a rather interesting difference in the way the Labour Party's main speakers, Signe Eye, speak out, and the way in which the Council of State pronounces itself. It's about the need for and the desire for a broad settlement, which Signe Eye has said profitably many times. I note that for its part the Council of State is virtually silent in this area, and now it is not many months left before the matter comes to Stortinget. That's an interesting observation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e986	Like Jan Petersen, I wonder about Bjørn Jacobsen's posts. It is clear that he has some points, including: that it is good to cooperate with other Nordic countries. But we don't have to do that at all costs, and there are many things about defence that we can't cooperate with Nordic countries about. I think Bjørn Jacobsen wants us to work together on almost everything. It's just not possible. There are a lot of strategic things about which it's completely impossible to cooperate. We think of our own northern areas, our own vessels, etc., which in one context are to be used in completely different areas – as are Sweden and other Nordic countries. Through this debate, I and others have called for the content of the Soria Moria Declaration. That's a lot of nice words, but that's just words, as far as we in the opposition have experienced this. We have not been given any information on the concrete measures taken during this period of government regarding the content of the Soria Moria Declaration and the Northern Territories. I can't see that there are some things that have been done so far. On the other hand, I have heard about some things to be done, but I also heard that when the government joined. Sign Eyes makes a point that the distance is now so large between the Progress Party and the Right that it's just before we take lines on each other. No, the distance isn't that big. I don't understand how Signe Eye can perceive this that way. On the other hand, when it comes to the Swedish Government Party and the Workers' Party, we know that the distance is really large. They don't repeat each other here, but they do it another way – they go out and demonstrate to each other in the lawn in front of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e995	The representative, Bjørn Jacobsen, has spoken twice before, and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e998	OK, I have a lot of concerns about the environment and the climate today, but I think it's right to say that several things that have changed in practice have not brought the other parties. And when one from the Right can actually get to say that SV has got Norway out of NATO, it's as wrong as it could be at all. NATO itself has decided to go. This is strongly undercommunicated. We know that what happens to the military presence at Jåttå in Rogaland – Bent Höie, the rogaland representative, who was tired of it – has obviously not had anything to do with it. I will nevertheless stress once again that there are major changes in practice, and then this hall must also prove to be both mature and worthy to be involved in developments when it comes to both the tasks and the structure of defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1007	Per Roar Bredvold has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1011	It was interesting to hear the last posts from the representative Eye with the characteristics of the various posts. Now, I guess this isn't an Idol contest or anything like that. So what the individual has said, I guess it's up to the individual. I mean what I said in my post, that the defense is in a critical situation. When the head of defense says that if we don't increase the budgets, we have to put something down, it probably reflects the situation of the defense. I hope that the representative Eye will respond in a way – that is, for example. to read only ‘Norway Defence’. Otherwise, I think it's a little sad that no more of us are talking about the girls and the boys who are in foreign assignments. It's been said a little bit about it, of course. So we have personnel going out to preserve world peace with life as a mission, and that's not enough security equipment for them. These include: lack of armoured vehicles and bulletproof vests. And when there's no place the soldiers can meet when they come back, when there's not enough post-protection, when the economic rights are not there – although there's been an increase from 4 G to 10 G, which we heard here instead – there's quite a lot to look at here. So I had hoped that more people could talk a little bit more about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1025	I spent a large part of my post describing the content of the Soria Moria statement and the strong commitment to the Air Force, to the Maritime Defense and not least to the Coast Guard and Army's presence in the North. The Government, through its draft budget, has shown that it is following up on what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. I'm not going to go ahead with a localization debate in the context of the Defence Policy Selection, but I was a little surprised when the head of the Defence Committee called for my wish for a broad settlement. I said in my speech that the debate here shows that there is a great deal of consensus about both the change in defence and the security and defence policy challenges we are facing. I replied to two lines – one from the representative Petersen and one from the representative Dørum – about this with the long-term plan process. Of course, I am concerned that we will work for as broad a settlement as possible. I also said that the government is at the beginning of this work. But I am concerned that in the case of factual information that is not at all related to calculations – which I understand there is a great demand for – we will, of course, do our best to provide information when requested. Otherwise, I just want to make a little comment to the representative of Bredvold, who almost blackpaints the situation of the soldiers in international operations. The representative Signe Eye was in his first post concerned with the importance of good equipment and materials. I want to stress that there is something we focus on every single day, and that I myself am very concerned about. Keeping pace with technological developments is a challenge. It is equally important – and we have a full focus on this – that the soldiers we send out should have the best equipment and be well trained for that task.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1036	Jan Petersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1039	This answer from the Council of State really disturbed me. If it is that she believes that with what she has said, she has addressed the issues associated with a settlement, she is sadly mistaken. It seems that she has simply not thought through how difficult it will be to achieve it, and how big a problem we are going to address. I remember that both Signe Eye and I have talked about these budgets having to be increased. And it will not be a simple matter, at least not after the Ministry of Finance has got its hand on it. I imagine that the process that will then take place openly in Stortinget, where we may be invited to blow up a compromise in the Government, will not be easy. That's why I think maybe the Council of States should think through how and at what time we can most appropriately get in, so that we can get a real process, where everyone has an influence on the final result.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1046	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1 The size has now come to the handling of case no. 2 on agenda No 26. [[Footing, see page 938]] The matter to be dealt with here has not been dealt with in the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. Under Rule 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget nevertheless deal with this matter no. No objections have been raised against the President's proposal. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1068	Just three points. First of all, I want to pay tribute because the scope of these regroupings is less than they've been for a while, and that suggests that there's better control of the economy. I think it is nice to be able to note that. As the Committee also says, this regrouping proposal is a necessary instrument at the end of the year, but at the same time it must be emphasised that the appropriations granted by the Stortinge also reflect the will of the Stortinge. It's not any balancing of any additional consumption The Storting will accept, and I would think that the Storting will increasingly be concerned with its intentions in the time to come, so that it will become increasingly problematic to make changes that are not well justified. In this context, there is probably also reason to mention that our defence budgets are very rough-skinned, so rough-skinned that they give both the Defence Department and the Ministry of Defence considerable freedom of action. The question is whether this rough maskness is not being driven too far, and whether Stortinget – based on the wish to get control of how the money is spent – should perhaps consider getting more fine-skinned budgets. We're going to have to get back to this. My second comment concerns peacekeeping operations. I noticed that, in the previous case, the Council of State had a somewhat different wording than the Committee on the promotion of the proposals for appropriations. I don't think it needs to be any big disagreement about this. It is when it is probable that the operation will come, that the allocation will come. But it must be stressed that the appropriations should come before they are imposed, and not as in the UNIFIL case last year, where the Storting could very well not do the allocation. It would give the Riksrevision something to take care of. This means that it is not enough to wait until any decommissioning takes place, if the costs are incurred on an ongoing basis during the year and cannot be covered by other items. So finally, there's a little bit up and down what's in the documents from the Department of Defense. In our investment proposition, we got into two important issues that had nothing to do with the investment proposition. We dealt with them separately last week. This time, the regrouping proposition has an investment matter in itself that, as far as I can understand, has nothing to do with the regrouping itself, but which has been promoted because you were going to send a proposition to the Stortinget anyway. This makes it a little more difficult to deal with the issues. Not least, this one element would have been something which, at least in part of the Committee, would have wanted to spend a little more time than what is available in the context of a regrouping proposal. Therefore, I would encourage the Council of State to be somewhat more consistent with the way in which the various issues are put in, so that there is a reasonable relationship between what the matter is sold in as, and what it really contains. There should be better consistency. This makes the proceedings easier for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1082	The regrouping proposal is an important instrument for capturing unforeseen developments within a year's budget. The scope of proposals for regrouping the defence is significantly smaller this time than in the past, which an overall committee considers to be positive. It's not that strange, because the smaller the size of the regroupings, the closer we are to the original appropriations of the Storting, which are binding and reflect the intent of the Storing. Therefore, it seems strange to me that the opposition this time points out ‘that it has not been given that proposals for regrouping will be acceptable’. The only way I can figure it out is that you want to make a difference here in relation to the function of the Storting. Because when we actually go into this, it's actually that proposals for regrouping are significantly smaller this time than before. Then you should be more satisfied, not less. But it's not like that. An overall committee agrees with the proposal to cover additional costs in 2007 for the peace operation UNAMID in Sudan of 184 million. kr. At the same time, an overall committee notes that no appropriations have been proposed in the 2008 budget because this operation is not predictable. Then there's the disagreement. The Right Party and the Advance Party consider that it is not satisfactory to apply for funding at the time when the costs may have been incurred, and therefore require the Government to return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a proposal for 2008 based on the assumption that the strength will be deployed. In contrast to the opposition, the Labour Party and the SV are well pleased that the Government proposes to return to the Stortinget once the precise framework and costs of any Norwegian participation in Sudan have been finally clarified. My point in this context is that we should be satisfied that the Government is adding additional appropriations to non-predictable international operations when the precise framework and costs are finally clarified. Otherwise, we may risk that the costs of such operations could go beyond the ordinary agreed defence budget. I hope that's not what the Right Party and the Advance Party want. I would also like to emphasise that the majority of the Committee, all parties other than the Progress Party, subscribe to the proposal to grant money to light-weight tractors. It's strange, I think, that it's the Progress Party, which normally wants to spend a lot of money on the Defense, which proposes to postpone the project, and which tries to hold it back. So they do that this time as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1097	Initially, a small line to Signe Eye: Yes, the Advance Party wants to spend money on the Defense. We want to spend a lot of money on material. When we have said that in our alternative budget we want to spend $2 billion more than the government wants, I think her presentation was quite strange. But we also say we're going to spend money on what we know we're going to spend them on, and not on unforeseen or unthought-out things, like Signe Eye and the Workers' Party want to do in this situation. Otherwise, all members of the Committee agree that the regrouping proposal is an important instrument for capturing unforeseen developments, but would also stress that the allocation of the Storting is binding and expresses the Storting's intention, as it says in the vote. The majority of the Committee, represented by the Party of Progress and the Right, points out that it has therefore not been given the possibility of accepting regrouping proposals. However, what is positive, and as also the chairman of the Committee, said, is that the scope of regrouping proposals is significantly smaller than in the past. For the peace operation in Sudan, no appropriations have been proposed in the 2008 budget because the operation is not so-called predictable. We think that's weird. It has not been given that the forces will be deployed, but it is likely that costs will be incurred. I guess there's no doubt about that. It is not satisfactory that the allocation is sought at a time when the costs have already been incurred – as I have said earlier here today – as happened in 2007 with the allocation of the UNIFIL contribution. The government must therefore come back as soon as possible with proposals for 2008 based on the assumption that the forces will be deployed. That is what the Government wants, and then they must also be able to budget with it. On the other hand, the Progress Party is not in favour of Norwegian participation in Sudan. We cannot see that it is a primary task to send Norwegian youth to Darfur under current circumstances. However, we have recorded that the Government has decided that a Norwegian force should be sent to Sudan. This situation suggests that we will support the proposed additional allocation. We will stress that it is essential that the response force is equipped in the best possible way in terms of personal protection, departmental material and other necessary material. Furthermore, it is of course assumed that the strength has been trained and prepared for the mission. In the context of project 6401, Lightweight Storpedo, reference is made to the correspondence between the Defence Committee and the Ministry, where we cannot see that the Government has provided an adequate overview of the financial aspects of the project. We cannot therefore support the continuation of the project on the basis of the financial information provided. In our opinion, there should have been an offer from suppliers to upgrade today's Sting Ray torpedoes, as this is described as a possible solution, rather than a new acquisition. We do not think it appropriate to deal with such a comprehensive and costly project in connection with this proposition, as we believe this will be included in the acquisition of the ordinary defence budget. We therefore propose that the project be taken out of the proposal, and that a new case be brought to the Enlargement regarding the project. Finally, I put forward the proposal of the Progress Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1114	The representative Per Ove Wideth has drawn up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1117	St. pp. No 22 for 2007-2008 covers many areas and moves a lot of money. This is largely a consensus. Because this matter is so important, I will now repeat a little: the progress party is uncertain about the project – 6401 Replacement of Sting Ray torpedoes. It's probably true that we have to do something with those we have, there's no doubt about it. But what's written about it is whether it's going to be an upgrade or whether it's going to be a replacement with new ones. What makes me uncertain is, of course, the cost framework of a total of 1647 million. SEK plus 20 million. kr in implementation costs. But there is also – and that is important – an uncertainty in the project regarding the integration of the torpedo on the frigates, helicopters and Orion planes. This uncertainty should not be there when we grant far up to NOK 2 billion on the project. That is why the Progress Party wants its own proposal on the project. A small thing in addition: Chapter 4740 says a little about the sale of fuel, leased out EBA, the sale of supplies and pampering to allied forces in practice in Norway. My question goes to the Council of State, if it suits the Council of State to answer it: does this Norway cost anything – or is it a plus/minus zero game? I hope that's the last one.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1124	For all parties involved in the defence budget, it must be a great advantage to be granted additional appropriations for the non-predictable international operations, which therefore cannot be calculated when working on or presenting the budget. That was actually the relationship with UNIFIL last year. For the current year alone, there is an additional commitment to the defence budget of a total of 374 million. kr. In fact, the budget has increased — continuing the budget from 2006 to 2007. I would like to make a comment on the lightweight turret project that had been included in the reclassification proposal. I would like to say that I understand the committee leader's comment on which issues are to be addressed in the regrouping proposal. I notice absolutely the point of view. I just want to stress that when it was done, it was to save time in the process of an important project that was not clear in the development of St.prp. No 1st@item:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1131	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 942]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1147	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 3 [[Footing, see page 945]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1167	This is not true when Norway with all its welfare systems is at the top of the world, and in the OECD context, in the case of persons who are either sick or who are granted disability benefits. According to NOU 2007:4, new disability benefit and new retirement pension for disabled persons, public expenditure on sick leave and disability benefits is around 4 pst. of GDP in Norway. This is more than twice the average in OECD countries. In Norway, we have a sick pay scheme that is very beneficial to people suffering from some form of illness. It's possible to write self-declaration, there's no reduction in pay of any kind, and there's no qualifying days, as most countries naturally compare us to. This means that the possibility to arrive early during treatment and thus reduce the risk of developing the disease course to an inadequacy should be much less in Norway than in comparable countries. Workers are also protected by the Working Environment Act. If the Norwegian Labour Environment Act is not the most stringent and comprehensive of the world, it is at least in the top level. This law reduces almost all aspects of working life and protects workers from almost everything. I only mention the regulation of working time and the continuous regulation of overtime. This means that although the labour pressure for many groups may be high, in most other countries it will be much larger for the corresponding group of people. There should therefore be no need to talk about worse working conditions in Norway than in other countries, rather the opposite. This should mean that there are far greater opportunities in Norway for retaining workers in work with less disease and less wear and tear than in comparable countries. In addition, Norway has advanced occupational occupational safety and safety supervision to prevent accidents, but also to prevent work-related diseases. The Labour Inspectorate will also follow up an accident to clarify the course of events in order to avoid such accidents in the future. This increases the knowledge of the Labour Inspectorate so that they can disseminate information to both workers and employers on how to avoid accidents and wear and tear injuries among workers. Norway is also well advanced in the OECD context in this area. With strong labour supervision, which has both knowledge and tools, it should also pave the way for fewer accidents and load damage, which in turn should result in fewer sick and fewer disabled people compared to comparable countries. Norway is also well advanced in the case of HMS work – all enterprises are required to have an HMS manager. Work on health, environment and safety shall be carried out as a red thread through the work of the company. In addition, all major enterprises as part of this work have their own occupational health service, which has top competence in health, the environment and safety. Not many countries, if anything, are as far ahead in this work as Norway. Nevertheless, it does not appear that this has any effect in terms of fewer disabled or sickly reported persons, compared with other countries. If you were to get in the unfortunate situation to get sick or get out of an accident that leads to injury, there are countless schemes to help get people back to work. There may be retraining for other types of work, rehabilitation or return to the same workplace as one had before the injury or disease. According to NOU 2007:4, no OECD country spends as much money on rehabilitation and rehabilitation as Norway. We have arrangements in place to facilitate working conditions, without costing the employer or the employee anything. Yes, I do not know about any country that has as shy schemes as Norway in this area, schemes that we all agree on. In addition to what I have been through, employees in Norway have relatively long holidays, and a holiday pay scheme that allows everyone to take a vacation at least once a year. Although we have put in place all these schemes, a lot of money is spent on prevention work through, among other things. occupational health services for people to stay healthy and spend a lot of money on rehabilitation to get people back to work are the proportion of people employed who move to sick pay and disability among the highest in OECD countries. This is a dilemma, and I assume it's also for the Council of State. That's this dilemma this interpellation is about. Isn't all the arrangements we have in Norway working? What does it take to get more people out of a passive life that fails, if one is able to work to some degree? I am sure that many people who are unemployed today will return to work. It also shows the numbers in St.prp. No 1 from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, which we will deal with Thursday. It is noted that in 2006, there was contact with 8 000 people with questions about whether they wanted to return to work. Of these, approx. 5,000 people wanted to return to work. Only 2,700 of these returned on full-time or part-time or stepped up their work effort. This indicates that too few of those who wanted to get out of work were offered it. I think that if we're going to get any further with this, it's not just useful to ask someone who has a disability pension, if he wants to get back to work. I think we need to make demands. One of the requirements must be that a regular assessment of working capacity is made. This must apply to all those who have disability, not only those with temporary disability. I am sure that by reviewing everyone who is today declared unfit, it will show that there are many who should not have been, and many who should have had another disability. Through regular assessment, one could base the change that is taking place in society, with new technical solutions, new tools, new ways of working, new professions and perhaps, above all, new attitudes. Many of the people I know who have some disability are disapproved – for no reason at all. They're actually just like you and me. They only have a different way of getting along, and then we have to put together a much better way than today for them to be able to participate in the world of work. According to the Labour Force Survey, AKU, employment among people with disabilities is below 45 pst, while for the rest of the population it is 83 pst. It's too bad. A large group of people who have some form of disability want to get to work, and we should put all the good forces to organize so that they reach what I think the majority of people in this room also have the goal of getting out of work. I have met several company winners in Northern Ireland, yes, actually attended meetings with the Nordland Business Association, where several company winners were present. At such meetings I do not fail to mention the resources that business is missing by not employing well-trained people with disabilities. At such meetings, it is discouraging to know that business owners do not know the good arrangements available to facilitate people with disabilities who receive disability benefits but who want to get into work and should get out of work. For this reason, the Progress Party has made proposals both during the year's budgetary procedure and in previous years that organisations should be given a much greater responsibility for informing about such arrangements. I am sure that if the FFO, the Handicap Association and the other special organisations were given a special responsibility to inform about the measures that are actually there, they would, in their own interest, now be far more than the department or other public bodies with this information. Now it might sound as if everyone who is receiving disability benefit is going back to work. That's not the case. Many of those who are disabled today will not come back to work and should not. But we owe it to give those who, somehow at some level, can participate in the working life, the opportunity to participate in the social arena that the workplace is. We also owe those who can't come back to work, a social security that they can live on. One way to do it is to get everyone who is able to work out of disability. Then there will be room to increase the level of the pension. I look forward eagerly to the Council's response to how we're going to achieve the goal that I think everyone might agree on, but where there's a little crack in the solution, that's to get more failure back to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1209	Interpellence affects in many ways some of the most important challenges we face, not only in welfare policy but also in labour market policy, because we are moving very clearly towards a situation where labour shortages are the main challenge facing the Norwegian labour market. In many ways we can say that we are already in that situation, because today there are far more job vacancies in the Norwegian labour market than there are the number of job vacancies. An increasing number of companies say that what primarily hampers their ability to develop is labour shortages, while in fact, when Norwegian businesses are unable to develop as a result of labour shortages, they are hampering their development. We live on the work that is done every day, and it's not good for those individuals who can't feed on their own work when they want it. The situation described in the interpellation is the core issue of the development of Norwegian society in decades to come. That's why this kind of issue then characterizes those degrees both the government's policy and the involvement in the Storting. There is a lot of work done in many areas. Let me just briefly take some of the most important. Firstly, I believe that the agreement on inclusive working life, the IA agreement, is very important. It can always be discussed whether the IA agreement has given us the results that we wanted and that we have had reason to expect. It's quite obvious from some of the target formulations that we haven't achieved the targets. But nevertheless, I believe that the agreement on an inclusive working life is positive, because it is precisely related to the fact that the main arena is the workplace, and that the main players are the social partners. It is the meeting at the workplace, between the employer and the employee, which is the main venue for meeting the challenges of exclusion from the labour market. Nothing is so wrong that it is not good for anything. So, the turbulence that we had about the IA agreement and the sick pay scheme last fall, after all, has led to a new life in the IA work. We see it by developing sick leave very positively in 2007, but not least we have seen it through the fact that it has been politically accepted for a new way of thinking about the work of reducing sick leave. So point one is cooperation in the world of work. Then we are on top of what I think is point two, which is about getting involved much earlier with people who are sick. For too many years the tradition in Norway has been that once people have been diagnosed, they should be at peace. No one should call and ask, no one should contact, and only when you had been sick for one year, did the public activity start with the sick person. What all the experience shows us is that once people have been sick for one year, the chance of getting back to work is very small. What happened in the Sick leave Committee, which was led by the Prime Minister last autumn, has been very important – in the sense that we have had a very tightened-up system with regard to early activity in relation to the sick person, in the form of requests for follow-up agreements, in the form of a dialogue meeting, and not least in the form of a requirement that if you are out of activity for six months, NAV should initiate a meeting with the employer, employee and treating physician in the NAV office where you start talking about whether or not there is a return outside your own company that is necessary to return. It's a very big and important operation, in which I have great faith, that we'll get involved much earlier with the sick person. This is now being followed up by the fact that, as a result of the same process, we have achieved substantially improved arrangements relating to health and rehabilitation services for sick persons, the purpose of which is to speed up the return of sick people to work, thereby reducing sick leave and access to disability facilities. Within this scheme, regional health enterprises and the Working and Welfare Act provide services across a wide range of areas. It's per. On 22 November, about 5,245 sickly reported workers were referred to treatment in Norwegian hospitals, and there is an increase of 1,245 patients since the end of October. We now see that the system, after being in a clear entry phase, is in strong growth. It shows that the scheme is beginning to fall into place. In addition, new services in the areas of clarification, labour law and rehabilitation and follow-up from the Employment and Welfare Act are being established. So previous intervention to the sick person, I'd say is a main act of two. Key actions for which we work are the whole reorganisation of welfare management and a new content in welfare management. The whole NAV reform is about not being able to meet these people piece by piece, where we send people from office to office and spend a lot of time and effort arguing that you are in the wrong office. Now we roll out NAV offices to a significant extent, which means that by the end of the year we have 110 NAV offices in place, and by the end of next year we are approaching 300. The whole idea behind it is that we need an office where the responsibility is. There is still a lot to work with and discuss, but not whether you are in the right office or not. You are guaranteed in the right office when you go to the NAV office! The whole approach to the NAV reform is that we cannot be satisfied with how welfare management has solved the challenges of exclusion from the labour market, all the time we have had over the last 20 years to double the number of disabled people. From 1985 to 2005, the number of disabled persons has doubled! Then we can't lean back and say we're satisfied with the way welfare management has dealt with this challenge. And neither have we! We have adopted the reorganization of welfare management over time, and then we fill in with content in the NAV offices in line with what Stortinget has agreed to through the treatment of St.meld. No 9 for 2006-2007, Work, well-being and inclusion: qualification programme, new time-limited income insurance to replace rehabilitation funds, back-up payments and time-limited unpaid pay, follow-up and assistance from the establishment based on an assessment of the individual’s working capacity, situation and needs, with the active involvement of the individual user, attempts at temporary wage subsidies in five counties in progress this year – which we propose to make country-wide from 2008 – and the new clarification and follow-up measures to extend and complement today’s schemes, i.e. the NAV reform content package. So the main thing three is reorganization, new content in the welfare community. Once we have implemented these measures – and that is not a complete list that I am now able to provide, but it is at least a focus that I believe is the most important thing – I feel convinced that we are going to be able to reverse a negative trend. But we need to be aware that we have an ageing population. We know that statistically, the tendency is to get dissatisfied with age, and we now get some big coal that reaches the age of 60. It's very important that we don't now get into a situation where this leads to an automatic growth in the number of disabled people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1235	The last thing that the Council of State said, that we have an ageing population, is probably a fact that is not at issue. But it is also a fact that an ageing population is something you have all over Europe — it is not just Norway. It is still the case that there are twice as many disadvantaged people in Norway as in other countries, who have much worse arrangements. It is, as the Council of State was about, a very lack of labour out in society today, so it is a big dilemma that you do not get any more back to work. The Progress Party agrees with the IA Agreement. It makes sense to start by following up workers who have been sick at a long earlier time, so that they can be returned to work if they go against work. The NAV reform is also an important tool for achieving targets. It takes time to solve these problems, and there are many who want to get back to work. We see in today's Evening Post that disabled people get worse. It says: «We need jobs, no more beautiful promises and honorary words. What we see is an increasing distance between political ambitions and realities, says Secretary General Lars Ødegård of the Swedish Handicap Federation.’ A report has been submitted to show that the work of getting disabled people back to work is very poor. Between 40,000 and 50,000 of the 271,000 people with disabilities want to work, the Labour Force Survey shows to the Statistical Central Bureau. To date, the focus has been on the qualification of each jobseeker, while the report shows that it is the employer’s side that needs to be qualified through information and knowledge. It is necessary to simplify the legislation. It is particularly important to make small and medium-sized enterprises which do not have a large administration understand and handle paperwork. It is therefore understandable, I think, that the Council of State does not place greater emphasis on going with the voluntary organisations, which can make a effort here. Let them, on behalf of the State, inform and qualify employers around this country. As I said in my introduction: I have been to a number of meetings with different companies and with the Nordland Business Association, where not one of the business owners who sit in the hall when I tell you about the arrangements that the State has to make to get more disabled people back to work – give them the opportunity to work – know that these schemes work. That shows that we haven't achieved in terms of the information we're going to target. Then this work doesn't get. I hope that the Council of State will take it along and do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1253	Yes, I will take it with me and hear what the representative Svendsen says. At the same time, I would also like to say to the employers of the country, and it is both the private and the public sectors, that the time is now marked by labour shortages, and the time will be marked by labour shortages. It's not a particular cyclical prognosis. Just because population trends are as they are, Norway will lack labour even in recessions. That's why those businesses, whether public or private, that are capable of laying down a battle plan to recruit widely, are the ones that will succeed in the future. On the part of the authorities, we have to set up tools to link the available hands with employers who get their eyes up to the recruitment challenges. I come straight to Stortinget from a company visit at Stormberg, which has a large store here in Oslo, but which has its own main plant in Kristiansand. It's a company that has a goal of 25 pst. all employees are recruited from so-called marginal groups of the labour force: drug users, people with mental disorders, people who come straight out of prison, etc. – 25 pst. of the staff. I had a very interesting conversation with the head of Stormberg, who says that yes, there is a social commitment behind it, but it is primarily a good business thinking behind it. By recruiting from these groups, Stormberg has access to the labour force that no one else sees. And they get very loyal employees, who have very low sick leave, and who are dedicated to their job. I have such confidence in Norwegian business that I believe that more and more people will now get their eyes up to the fact that it is within these groups of potential – everyone else is working. Then you need more, you have to look in those groups that are not at work, and it's the disabled, the immigrant population, and it's people who have a history of drug addiction, psychiatry, imprisonment, etc. I'm optimistic, but that doesn't mean we're just going to keep up with evolution. As I said: I take with me the representative Svendsen says that we have to press with information.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1262	The interpellant addresses an important question and has received an adequate answer to its questions from the Council of State: including employment agreements, early intervention, the NAV reform, with its changes in the social welfare system and the composition of measures, and the new focus in NAV with emphasis on mastering rather than disease. Then we could also have taken on board the work that is now under way with a new anti-discrimination law and a universal design law, which is therefore under way. So the interpellant mentioned in its first post, or maybe it was in the second, that we crack in terms of solutions. Yes, we do. But what the interpellant did not mention was that the Progress Party launched its own response in connection with the financial debate last week, unfortunately not a change for the better. Thus, the Progress Party proposed to introduce an entirely new type of disability pension in Norway, a disability pension based solely on medical criteria. I can only understand that it will result in a severe tightening of the right to disability pension. We've always had an acquisition disability pension in Norway. So by reducing your ability to work due to illness, injury or hearing, you are entitled to a disability pension. It is not in itself that you get money because you are ill, but you are compensated for the loss of working or acquiring ability. So disability benefit is a benefit for people who are unable to work because of permanent health problems. It goes without saying that the ability to get out of your own work varies with the starting point you have. Where someone can continue to work despite a diagnosis, others will have major problems. In particular, they will be subject to heavy physical and low-skilled work. And we know that the disabled and the disabled have lower education than the rest of the population. We know that the possibilities of alternative work are smaller for some groups. The possibilities to target a re-scaling cycle are smaller if you have little to build on already. The possibilities will also vary with age. Many of those who will be affected by the proposals of the Progress Party will be older workers, women with heavy physical work, for example. in the care or cleaning industry. In addition, last week the Progress Party also promoted a proposal requiring all disability pensioners to participate in measures, work training or training. I also think there is some kind of suspicion of the disability pension group as such, that there are some here who have been mistreated on the wrong premise. It's kind of vibrating between the lines here. We're all worried about the growth in the number of miscarriages, but the answer is hardly to tighten up the We also know that the reasons for the growth of disability pensions are many. For example, the researchers point. on purely demographic changes, explaining inter alia: half of the growth in male unearthed retirement. They explain that living up to the demands of working life, i.e. exclusion, has become more difficult for people with health problems. New diagnostics will be recognised, for example: the so-called diffuse musculoskeletal disorders. And then we know, on the other hand, that the proportion of disabled persons employed is very low compared to the rest of the population, and that many who want to, do not get away with it. We talk about everything from pure discrimination to diffuse, unreflected attitudes about the lack of productivity of a group of people, and on to the lack of knowledge of rules and support schemes from the employer team and perhaps also from the employee team. So it's possible to divide the answers to that challenge into different types of answers. You can influence the individual by motivating, by building up skills and by providing tools. You can work to remove societal barriers. You can enter into voluntary agreements. And then you have the fourth option, which is to tighten people's rights. I think the conclusion is obvious. The line of state councils, as shown by his response, is the right one: use positive instruments, so that employers see themselves fit to hire people with disabilities or health problems. And it has to be easier to combine work and social security. So I have very little faith in the whip of the Progress Party in terms of tightening people's rights in the social security system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1281	In today's situation, it is important that we take care of the workers who are at work. There are not unrecoverable physical constraints that give us high numbers of failures. Stressful work situations, poor warning procedures and technological and social developments that make many people feel out of date are often a underlying reason why many reasonably healthy people choose to enter the years. This makes great demands on today’s leaders. I believe that the key to employment and longer-term work in the workplace lies in leadership development. I have experienced that the sick leave in a kindergarten was halved when I got a new manager in the kindergarten. No investments or major routine changes were made. The reduction in sick leave came from some simple changes in attitudes and some simple measures. Communication was established. The new leader talked about the positive things at work, about everything he had to enjoy. The manager built together with the employees a well-included environment to which everyone felt belonging. Onion benches were made and other measures were taken to reduce everyday problems and loads. This was done in cooperation with and after the advice of the employees. In other words, you listened to the employees and took them seriously. Large sick leave is actually a measurable sign of illness for a workplace. There is very often a link between sick leave and disability, so it is important to analyse the causes of absence and to look at the possibilities of prevention. It is thoughtful that, with today's tools and work-saving measures, we, with strict control of the working environment and detailed protective legislation, are experiencing burned-out and worn-out workers as early as the 40s. People actually get worn out sooner now than before the aid and protective legislation were introduced. This is a lifestyle problem that we must take seriously. Good management inspires and gives job satisfaction. Problems arising shall be captured and promptly resolved. Employment adaptations must be made, stimulated and new challenges faced by employees to master. Then you can give them praise and recognition and strengthen their self - esteem. It is necessary to inform and provide training in such a way that employees feel competent and secure in their duties and in their own work situation. Most people have heard about Lotte's nursing home in Denmark. Sick leave went down to almost zero after an exciting change of form of operation and organisation. My advice is to focus on leadership development and to concreteise the basics of good governance as a foundation. In addition, as far as possible, the development of our society must be influenced. Our welfare society is activating us and giving us challenges to which we need to find solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1300	The number of people working before the age of age living in Norway today in full or in part from public cash transfers is alarmingly high. It is the most central issue in the debate on welfare policy now and in the future. There are, in particular, two reasons why people are out of work and ending up with disability. One is a high level of sick leave. Sick leave in Norway is twice as high as the EU average. One who has been sick for eight to twelve weeks has only 50 pst. chance of getting back to work. Someone who's been sick for a whole year has less than 20 pst. the likelihood of getting back to work. This isn't just alarming, it's a ghastly illustration that our Norwegian welfare model doesn't work according to purpose, and in reality, it actually helps to push people out of work permanently. What sick people need more than anything else to get back to work is treatment. We must ensure rapid follow-up of those who are sick. We need to provide available health services and to ensure that sick people do not have to wait for months before starting treatment. We need to ensure that after a short period of time, perhaps three months, an assessment is made as to whether it is at all likely that the sick person will return to work and that early measures for rehabilitating and rehabilitation are put in place, if one finds that such rehabilitating is not likely. On the right, several proposals have been made in the context of the 2008 State Budget, which I hope the Council of State will look into. The second casualty gate is a lack of competence. All studies show that those who first become long-term or long-term unemployed are often people with weak basic skills. This is precisely why increasing knowledge in schools is also an investment in the welfare of the future. A better school, with properly organized education that ensures that no one falls from it, will mean that fewer people are pushed out of the labour market and become dissatisfied. We have to recognize that there are other relationships that play in. For the Right, it is important to state that it is always worth working. In today's Evening Post, labour and welfare director Tor Saglie is asked the following questions: ‘Is good financial arrangements the reason why the number of people with disabilities remains high?’ He answers, among other things:\t\t You can ‘For some groups, the economic motives may act in the direction of passivating them. For unskilled workers in low pay, the economic gain in wage and salary earners will be lower than for other groups.» Here I think Saglie is what I would call near a point – this is a so-called substatement. Many will in fact lose money on going from social security to work. If you have a service that is initially useful, perhaps with some housing support and/or support, and at the top of it can earn 1G without curtailment, you will actually have to pay a relatively significant annual salary to work. Then we have an urgent need to do something about tax policy, so that there is a lower tax rate for groups of low and medium income, and we need a critical review of the arrangements of different welfare schemes. When I say this, it's not because I accuse the insured of wondering what's most profitable. This is most of a security issue. When a social security person wants to get into work – and we know that there are many who will – it is important that security does not go away. Many people are anxious about what happens if they do not succeed in working life. Anyone who goes from social security to work should have the social security to fall back on for a period of time if they do not have the power to stand in the new job. NAV statistics show that the proportion of sick and disabled persons is highest in areas of the country with low labour demand, and in municipalities and areas with a one-sided industrial structure, often with one large and dominant industrial enterprise. In my own municipality, Sarpsborg, the figures show that there were twice as many disabled people who voted on the Right at the last election – over 15 pst. The proportion of the population in the pre-employment population, i.e. the 18–67 age group, is approximately. 5,000 people. It should therefore be possible to establish that part of our welfare systems conceals real unemployment. I look forward to the Government coming to Stortinget with the very important issue of how to reform the disability in the years to come. It will be a very important and exciting matter, which I hope can invite to a reflective debate on an incredibly complex and difficult issue, and which will mean a great deal to the development of the welfare society in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1335	In the text of the interview, the representative Kenneth Svendsen mentions the apparent paradox that a country with the best welfare systems in both social and labour life still has such a high proportion of people in working life who receive disability pension. It is also a seeming paradox that, despite active labour market policies and a number of measures to get back to work, relatively few return from themselves a temporary or temporary non-employment benefit to life. The selection of disability pensions is referred to in the interpellation. In this room we will probably be most concerned with the concrete proposals for the sample, and in particular the proposals that will be repeated by the Government. However, the sample has also provided an analysis of the causes of the so-called unavailability. This analysis is relevant for consideration, for measures to limit disability access should necessarily address the reasons why people actually go from working life to non-employment pay. Medical reasons are the main reason for non-earning. But the disability pension committee points out that this can hardly explain the change in, or growth in, the number of applications. The general state of health of people is better than ever. Changes in the working environment cannot explain either – we have, as the interpellant mentions, a strict work environment legislation, which has contributed to the improvement of safety in Norwegian workplaces, not worse. However, the sample points out that a significant part of the growth can be explained by the ageing of the labour force. There is in itself no automatic reason for increasing the level of medical disability, but the sample more than suggests that the frequency of inadequacies is actually an indicator of a significant degree of industrial activity in terms of pure and severe age discrimination. In addition, the sample points out that less stable family and cultural conditions, such as less loyalty to the big community, can also explain some of the growth. The sample also indicates that economic factors such as pension benefits may have an impact. We will have plenty of opportunity to discuss the design of the future disability pension system later. I'm not going to prejudge the discussion here. In this area, too, it is important to maintain the main idea of pension reform, that work should pay off. But at the same time, we will all, at least the Christian People's Party, protest at a society where people who are actually disabled will become an economic subclass. The dignity of individuals shall be reflected in the welfare systems in the future as well. But I think it's interesting that the selection so clearly points to values — human and social — in working life and in society as such important factors of explanation. Therefore, I would warn against a unilateral emphasis on economic explanatory factors and a unilateral emphasis on so-called rational economic measures within the pension system to reverse developments. It is the fight against hidden age discrimination, against the pressure to unemploy older workers as a means of downskilling, which must continue and be reinforced. Both the disability pension scheme and the AFP scheme are important welfare goods. However, we must be aware that such schemes can form or reinforce discriminatory attitudes towards older workers in general. In the near future, when we look at the future design of these two schemes, the relationship between design and attitudes in working life must be given a more advanced place than it has now. I look forward to continuing to clarify the content of this further when these two major issues come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1352	The representative Svendsen travels an important theme that we will discuss many times in the future in this room. However, it is important that we clearly agree on a main line, that the working line should apply in welfare policy. There must be an opportunity to get into work. Using their working capacity, full-time or part-time, is a good thing for the individual and an objective of the welfare policy that we are to provide as politicians. Then I am more in doubt whether we agree on the means to do so, to help the individual and to achieve the political objectives we have set. I think the representative Svendsen makes the goal of more people working as a responsibility for the individual to a greater extent than I am afraid that is the basis for. Like the representative Svendsen, I also read the Evening Post today, which has an instructive article on the situation of people with disabilities. A survey carried out by the Statistical Centre shows, as stated, that there are 50,000 out of 271,000 people with disabilities who wanted to get into work. I also read what was said by the Director of the National Documentation Centre for Persons with Disabilities: we must not only qualify the jobseeker, but also the employer’s side must be qualified. The Council of State referred to the IA agreement and the positive development that we are now seeing as a result of the agreement we concluded last year. But then we all know that the objectives of the IA agreement on more disabled people at work, which is one of the three main objectives, can in no way be said to be complied with and fulfilled through the work that is taking place. I think we need to put a spotlight on the ability of the labour market to live up to the objectives it itself has contributed to entering into binding agreements between the employer and the workers' side and the authorities. Something has to happen on this side of the world of work. Then I am also very pleased with the emphasis on the responsibility of the Council of State for this matter. I, as well as the organisations of disabled people, believe that for many who are looking for NAV, social security is being helped instead of what they came for, namely to get help to get out of work. It's too easy for the authorities to point out that the best thing for you is maybe social security. Too many people meet it as an alternative when they ask for help to get into work. It's a huge challenge for the work we're going to get out of a reorganized welfare facility. It is a huge challenge for the work that the state and the municipality will do in the future – as we establish the NAV offices. I understand that the Council of State has intended to have a clear look, a strong look, at how one manages to achieve the objectives we have, that the working line should be more of a say in welfare policy. But then I would also like to stress that we should have a working line to shape welfare policy, but that should not be a question of strangling the welfare systems of the individual. As the representative of the Christian People's Party, I'm nervous if what we're doing is getting rid of the sick pay systems and the social security systems so as to push people into a working life that doesn't ask for that labour force. This means that getting out of work is going to be very bad. We have so much done in using our own public schemes, in getting a job that shows dynamism in this area, that we have to point it out before we take a critical look at the individual who wants to, but who does not get the assistance that a person wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1366	It's a big topic that the interpellant takes up, too big for a brief post to touch on all the issues, but I'll draw out some of the most important, as the Left sees it. It is quite right that we have shy welfare schemes in Norway compared to other countries. It's important to say something about it, as the focus in this room has been largely problem-fixed. At the same time, we have many people who are out of work and a growing number of disabled people, especially among young people, who are worrying. We have a high level of sick leave for people with musculoskeletal disorders. In this context, it is possible to do more by preventing workplace damage and, in particular, to allow women in care professionals to work in more flexible tours. Then you can ask yourself what is the reason for the particular increase in the number of people out of work. The left believes there are many individual reasons why people are out of work, but there are some groups that do not get in more than others. There are many young boys who, at too young a age, end up in a disability pension. In the last generation it was possible for those who were hired to take a trip at sea, or learn other practical occupations. Today everyone is going through the same theory mill, and it is very devastating for those who are more practical. There are people with different disabilities who do not get in, because a number of conditions in the workplace hinder them. The problem of physical availability is an area where the Left believes that the law can make a difference. It does not help a disabled person to get work if it is impossible to get there, it is difficult to find out because the lift does not have Braille or floor counter, or there is no way to get into the building itself. Then there are also issues of the labour market itself that are problematic today. How many places can we refer to where mental retardants, for example, working on mail delivery or other tasks related to work in progress? Our work life has become so streamlined that it takes in little those that are not streamlined. As many people have mentioned here today, those in the labour market should preferably deliver up to 130 pst. There are many outside with a migrant background, which are still not called for an interview because they have the wrong name. There are women and men outside with the wrong age. Now the Left believes that employers are being forced, whether they want to or not, to take people in, because the shortage of labour is getting so high, and it's just growing. The left is in favour of everyone getting people out of work, focusing on what people can, and can be able to, instead of what they can't. Welfare services must always be based on respect for the integrity of the individual and be adapted to the individual's wishes and needs as much as possible. I believe that the system of temporary wage subsidies, both to ensure those who are falling out of the labour market due to sickness or other reasons, and to provide more flexible opportunities for those who are out of the labour market, is a positive measure. A number of alarming studies have pointed out that employers and managers are, in practice, far too low in employing people with a minority background or disability. I think we'll never get this through law alone. There must be changes in the attitudes of the individual employer. Employers have doubts about the possibility of hiring a person with a migrant background or disability. We all want it to be different, but the Left believes that other instruments than just law have to exist. There must be a greater use of awareness campaigns. We must not forget that the general policy of creating new jobs is an important contribution to the entry of excluded workers into the labour market. Through a better policy for entrepreneurs, a new view of entrepreneurs and simpler rules for new businesses, many new jobs can arise – including for those with problems of entry today. In addition, stricter requirements must be laid down for the organisation of all buildings, by universal design.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1389	The causes of disability are many and complex. In NOU 2007:4, on new unpaid pay, we find evidence that employment participation in the 50–64 age group is consistently higher in Norway than in many other comparable OECD countries. We have more disabled people in this age group, while in other countries those who are out of work are more likely to move to ordinary retirement, unemployment or other solutions – as it says, unspecified, in statistics. That means that we have a zero-free pay that captures those that fall out of work for some reason, and so we can probably say that it's a safety net that works. In fact, developments in countries with weaker professional rights, weaker labour-environment legislation and weaker welfare systems than Norway are more dramatic than in Norway in terms of participation in the labour market for older workers. However, it is necessary that we focus on how we can ensure that people endure longer in their jobs. The working environment and job safety are aspects that have a significant impact on the risk of becoming unwell. Let's take the workshop industry as an example. It has been raised beyond any doubt that there is a strenuous industry, with heavy physical work, high demands for speed and performance, often combined with job security swings strongly with business cycles. At Aker Stord, there have been 163 people who have lost some form of pension in the period 1998–2007. 60 pst. I have lost a fixed-term pension, 2 pst. – 2 pst.Oh, my God! – have stood until they are 67 years old, and the entire 38 pst. has been disabled. In the 2006 Work, Welfare and Society Report, published by NAV, Knut Røed of the Frischsenter shows that downskilling and conversion processes increase the likelihood of staff being disembarked. Part of the cost of conversions and manning is passed on to society. Strong trade unions that contribute to systematic and good health, environmental and safety work and prudent migration processes become important contributors to reducing access to disadvantaged people. In other words, we need more of the Labour Party and less of the Progress Party's policies in the world of work. The Progress Party is a consistent opponent of the legislative and contractual work that gives the trade union movement strength and the right to negotiate a good working environment and job security for its members. There is therefore a basis for claiming that the Labour Policy of the Progress Party will lead to more people falling out of work than today. The question arises as to whether, with the policy of the Progress Party, they will have a safety net that captures them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1400	First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate. So I'll go over what's been said here. Among other things, I would like to comment on what the representative Lise Christoffersen said, that the Progress Party in its draft State Budget has proposed that there should be a medical justification. That's quite correct, and that's actually what the law says today, too, even if it's got a little bit out of control. It says in the People's Security Act § 12-6: «Social or economic problems do not qualify for benefits under this Chapter.The medical condition must have resulted in a permanent disability of such a nature and degree as to constitute the main cause of the reduction in income/activity.» It must also be a dilemma for the Workers' Party's Lise Christoffersen and Per Rune Henriksen that we have two times higher redundancies in Norway than in other OECD countries. So we do, even though we have all of these good arrangements that are just designed to avoid the workload imposed by the environmental work law that Henriksen's representative pointed out. So Lise Christoffersen said that she has little reason to use whips and demands for workers. It is the exact opposite in terms of fees. When, for example: For environmental taxes, there is no need to put carrots at the disposal – only whips apply in that area, because there is income to the country. The Council of State has said that social assistance recipients need to get up in a hurry, which we agree on. I don't think the council said it to suspect anyone, I think actually he said it to help these people get a better life, by making demands. I hope that the Council of State is in favour of making demands on disabled people, too, not because they are to be suspicious, or because they are in some way bad, but in fact there are many changes in society. There are many professions – the representative Henriksen was in the industrial workplaces – that were heavy professions before. Today, the heavy professions in the care professions are. There's a constant change going on. There will be new professions, and there are new ways of working. Therefore, it is appropriate to require a regular review of the degree of inadequacy. In the financial position, the Progress Party has put forward the following proposals, which I will also come back to in the debate on Thursday: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that NAV introduces an individual plan for all recipients of default benefits with a potential residual working capacity.’ And... ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure that disability pension/temporary non-employment benefit is granted exclusively on medical criteria.’ And on the other hand, «The cancellation requests the Government to put in place a system whereby all recipients of default benefits, both permanent and temporary, are verified at least every 4 years.» I hope the council takes it with me. I will not tell anyone that it was originally the proposals of the Advance Party, if he submits them later.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1436	I'll take it with me. But anyway, when we're going to consider the issue of where we're going to go, where we're going to bet first, because it's always going to be a priority where we're going to first use the resources we have, I think we have to admit that it's a considerably simpler – not simple, but easier – task to try to limit access to new unqualified people than it is to get people who've been untrained back to work. Therefore, my main approach to the challenge posed by the representative Svendsen in his interview is not to reject the focus that the representative Svendsen has on getting disability pensioners back to work, but my approach will be much more focused on measures to limit access. Because I think it's simpler than the other one. I agree with the representative Svendsen that the situation in the labour market is so new that it is very important to provide information to the disabled as well. It's important that people are aware that if you're trying to get to work, it doesn't mean that you have to start over again to get dissatisfaction, if it doesn't work. You can get your social security back if you've tried it and it didn't work out. You have to get massive information about the new permanent wage subsidy, which can be a very effective and important tool, because I think there are many unskilled people who want to go to their employer and say that they have a working capacity, but it varies a little – a week is quite big, next week it is not as big. You can get a permanent wage subsidy that takes account of a slight fluctuation in working capacity, and the long-term wage subsidy takes into account that labour input may vary slightly from week to week, from month to month over the course of the year. A permanent wage subsidy can be paid to compensate the employer for it and the insured person receives his/her wage. So we're doing new things with new tools also to those who are dissatisfied. But if we're going to prioritize scarce resources, which it'll always be talking about here, I believe more in measures to prevent growth than in the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1451	The debate on substance is closed. So 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1457	The increase shall now be added to the case No. One, two, three.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1465	Mr Petersen has asked for the floor to be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1468	Just for the sake of order: it's a little different practice of what you do when a party has announced it in the financial position, differs from what you vote on when it comes to the trade union budgets. The right, and also the Christian People's Party and the Left, have come to the conclusion that today it will not be natural to vote against the vote of the Committee. As far as I know, the party of progress will consider it differently. I'm sure the President will tell you that. This does not mean that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, with their respective positions, mean anything other than what was in the financial position, but it was not natural to drag it to vote against the position itself today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e1475	In the course of the debate, Per Ove Width has put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the possibilities for sharing the purchase of new fighter aircraft, and asks the Government to assess the consequences of split-buy relationships with the current suppliers of new fighter aircraft.’ 2 reads:‘The Government asks the Government to equate the development contracts between Norway and the three projects JSF, Eurofighter and JAS/Gripen, economic and political.’ 3 reads:‘The government asked for a state report on today’s Orion aircraft. The size request the Government to submit to the Storting a plan for the acquisition of the corresponding capacity.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e3076	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e3093	During the debate, Per Ove Width put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e4001	For III there is a proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote its own proposal concerning project 6401- Replacement of Sting Ray torpedoes, at a later stage.’ The vote shall be taken first at the time of the vote, then alternately at the time of the vote, III, and the proposal of the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e4081	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-04.ana.ud828e4092	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
