ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e22	The representative Jan Petersen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The representative, Mr Skovholt Gitmark, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e30	On behalf of the representatives Børge Brende, Elisabeth Aspaker, Gunnar Gundersen and myself, I have the great pleasure of proposing to make it economically profitable to buy flexible cars.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e35	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e55	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Karita Bekkemeldsrådet Sylvia Brustadstastasråde Heidi Grande Røys The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Olemic Thommessen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e74	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. In recent days, we have seen disturbing headlines in several national newspapers related to child protection and how children are received – I would say – both in police and child protection contexts. The last few days have been looking up in the newspaper. In the daily newspaper for yesterday, as I stand here, the police ask for permission to keep children at home from the center, because the conditions that children live under, and the conditions that children face in troubled areas, are under every criticism. We know so well what it's all about. It's about crime, it's about behavioral problems, it's about prostitution, and not least it's about drugs, which may be a review melody in all of it, unfortunately. In another look, we can read that of the police's concerns about child protection, there are 52 pst. which is deposited, that is, over half. These are concerns about drug use. But we also know that 42 pst. by the reports of concerns coming from the police, dealing with behavioural problems and crime, are also addressed. Then I really have to ask the Council of State, is she comfortable with these numbers? Does she see that this is a big problem? And in that case, what will the Council of State do to ensure that child protection takes the police's concerns seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e85	It is worrying if children in Norway do not receive the care they should have. Therefore, the Child Protection Act is also very clear that child protection should address and assess the need for care take-over if children suffer. It's about whether children are in private homes, or whether children are in institutions, which we've also been exposed to lately. With regard to the current situation in the Municipality of Oslo, the situation is that there has been a worrying development, especially in some parts of Oslo. What the department has done in concrete terms is to raise the matter with the County of Oslo and Akershus. We have asked the county council to follow the situation very carefully, especially in Oslo. We have also taken the initiative to establish a much stronger inter-disciplinary cooperation between the police, child protection, different health services and the school system. And then we've also made it clear that it's important to follow the law. In the department, we now have an assessment of whether we are going to go into concrete detail and see if there is a basis for us to have written documentation on the issues of child protection, so that one can also go into expost and review.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e94	I thank you for your answer. There's a reason you're starting to get a little impatient here, because this is unfortunately no new issue. In April last year, the newspaper had a notice on almost the same matter. At that time, there were 2,000 anxiety messages that had been thrown, I think it was in the headline at the time. They were at least not followed up. At the same time, we see that we have child protection in crisis. It is a well-known problem that we have received strong comments from the National Audit Office. We also see that there are considerable developments in the area of child protection at present, and that there is a great deal of investment in areas that private institutions have previously largely taken care of. I should also like to ask you, are the priorities right? In a crisis situation, we should deal with the most important thing first. Isn't it more important to take care of those who don't get a proper follow-up now, and that more issues that are being dealt with are not blamed, than it is to expand expensive institutions, when private can handle the tasks?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e105	80 pst. of all work in the field of child protection takes place in the municipalities of the country. This is a municipal responsibility. That's why this government has spent almost 11 billion dollars on the local economy since we took over, so this council has invested almost 300 million dollars. kr to the State Child Protection for a reform that was underfunded when the Stoltenberg II government took over, and therefore we go in and take a full look at the state child protection situation to see if this works properly. I can promise that this government will closely follow the situation of the weakest children in our country, but I have from one day on said that there is a need to politicise child protection much more strongly in the municipalities. Child protection competes with older institutions, kindergartens and schools, and we know that there are no strong press groups standing out in the municipalities and banks at the municipal director – in order to use such an expression – and it is therefore important that we have a law that follows this closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e110	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e113	We heard that the representative Olemic Thommess pointed out that of the police's concerns reports, 52 pst. hospitalised. We also hear that the Council of State says it is the responsibility of the municipalities. I think that is a bit too easy, especially when we hear about overdose deaths in institutions, about the production of GHB – an illegal drug – in institutions, and even about the production of pornographic films by child protection workers. Is this not the case – and I would like a proper response – that the Council of State and the Ministry have the overall responsibility for child protection in Norway, and is it such that the child protection policy we have seen so far is completely flawed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e120	First, I want to take full responsibility for the good situation of child protection in Norway. That's what the entire government is doing, and – as I said in my answer – it's also one of the reasons why this government is so offensively betting on community solutions and on more money to the municipalities, instead of giving large tax credits to groups that don't need it. We know that child protection has come into a difficult situation over the years because there has been a situation in the municipalities that has unfortunately been very difficult financially. We're now going into offensive action, and we're going to take a full review, precisely because we want to see if there are weaknesses in this system that we need to capture in a better way. With regard to the cases that are being closed, it is important that the county councillors go in carefully and look at this and follow up on the municipalities where there is a large percentage of accommodation. We have made this very clear to all the statesmen of the country, and this is what the government will follow closely in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e130	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e133	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Health, because there is a lot of evidence that you see a very negative spiral here. These children are initially followed up by the police, and a large percentage of them are not being followed up by child protection, and the next time you see that very many of those who are being followed up in some way by child protection are waiting in line to get a good treatment offer in the field of drug protection. Thus it is that these are children who are in reality in a life-threatening situation. The first time they are discovered by the police, they already have a drug history, and then they experience that their situation is not taken seriously. Researcher Marie-Lisbet Amundsen says in the newspaper that this is a situation where the children can experience that nothing actually happens, that no one cares anyway, and that it is almost better that the police let themselves be involved. What will the Council of State do to make these children, who are in a life-threatening situation, feel that they are actually getting an offer of treatment in the field of drug protection immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e142	First, the Council of State has reported on the work of the Government and has already done. Here it is essential that there is a close interaction between the different departments. What the government will do, in addition, is what we've been notified in the big-time news that the Storting now has to deal with when it comes to equalising social differences, where we're warning that it's going to be a better follow-up of youth in the field of child protection after they're 18 years old. It is important that the supervisory board should also be strengthened. In the case of drug care, the government in these days is working to finalise a new plan of care for drug users. During the spring, the government will also introduce a special waiting guarantee for children and young people under the age of 23 with mental health problems and/or drug problems. These include, in addition to the Cinderella report, concrete measures to help the most vulnerable children, whether due to drug problems, mental health problems or other problems. Because there is no doubt that these are the ones we must give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e149	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e152	I have a follow-up question for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. When the Christian People's Party joined the government, we started working to produce two reports on interventions for children of mental illness and interventions for children with drug-dependent parents. Some work was started for these groups in 2006, and I know that the government has seen 29 million. DKK for the current year for this work. I wonder if the Council of State can say something about how these funds are spent, and if the Council of State can prove that they come directly to the benefit of the children in these two vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e159	One of the major challenges we face in the field of child protection is to achieve a much stronger cooperation between psychiatry and child protection. There was also Minister of Health Brustad in his answer, and this is a field with which the government is working closely. We see that some children and young people do not get the necessary help in the municipalities, and that child protection is often the care of these children in some of the situations. Therefore, it is important that we be able to establish close cooperation between child protection and health businesses in the regions, so that this work can be lifted much more offensively. With regard to the actual distribution of these funds, I cannot give a complete answer to that now, but I will be able to inform the representative at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e166	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e169	When the Council of State joined, she had great ambitions on behalf of child protection. Each stone was to be turned around to see how to improve child protection in Norway. After that, we have received a number of alarming reports, not only the reports we received from Oslo this weekend, but also from many small municipalities, including: in North Norway, which has a very high deposition rate. The only thing the Council of State has actually done out of control is that a lot of criminal care has been put into child protection, and then the responsibility for single, minor asylum seekers has been transferred to child protection, almost without transferring money. On the left, we are very concerned about the development of child protection that gets more and more responsibility without getting more resources. They say you should turn every stone, but I wonder if maybe some of the stones have been a little too heavy for the council to lift. Is it at all so that you can see different grips than more responsibility with less money?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e178	It is tempting to repeat some of what I have said earlier. It's a little about the political memory that the opposition obviously lacks, because this is actually about this government inheriting very close – I don't want to use such a strong expression – a bankruptcy dwelling, but a very serious situation for the state child protection. We met with a very critical report from the Riksrevision that made us have to go in with extraordinary appropriations immediately after we took over the government power. We would like to have a discussion about whether this is how the opposition wants the municipalities to discharge the responsibility for child protection and the state to take full responsibility. We're going to take that discussion, but there's a big and fundamental debate, and it's probably going a little bit against what the Left has in terms of the excellence of local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e185	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e188	I will be allowed to ask a question to the Minister of Health and Care. A study conducted by the Social and Health Directorate shows that between 20 and 50 pst. of the old at the institution are undernourished. Patients are not taken seriously until malnutrition has led to a decrease in general status. This is an unworthy situation that we cannot accept, and that we have to do something about. One thing is what you do in the long term, where the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health says that you will review the guidelines that are currently linked to housing and nutrition, something else is: what are we going to do in the short term? Of course, the issues that arise are many, such as: reduced general status due to malnutrition, often resulting in hospitalisation. In that case, disability is more rapid, and the institution also needs more help. So this is an evil circle. I hope that the Council of State will make sure that this is taken care of, not just in the long term, but that something is done immediately, so that those who are already in the process of getting into that situation – or are there – can get out of it and get a good diet, so that they get a better everyday life. Food is also well-being, and well-being is important, even for the general state. My question to the Council of State is this: What will the Council of State do immediately, so that you are sure that you get the food you want, what you want – that you are well cared for at the institution?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e200	It has now been discovered that there are many older people at our nursing homes who are undernourished. It's unworthy. It is serious when older people who I also meet tell them that they say no to the food they get from, because it tastes too bad, or because they get nauseated by it. I am not saying that this is a unique picture, but there is more than good reason to act. This has already been done by the Government through the notification of care currently under consideration in the Committee chaired by the representative Nesvik. The government has also recently presented a separate action plan on diet, where it also focuses on this. I believe that all local government in this country should taste the food they send out, it should be for hospitals or for those who need care in their homes, because it is totally unacceptable that food is served as badly as that we occasionally find in this area. It is fundamentally wrong for older people or others who need care to be alone, eat bread slices 24 hours a day, get worse and worse, become more and more lonely and physically and mentally worse. This does not mean that the Government will sit still and watch. That's why we've already done a lot. I would appeal what I can to the political populace of the country to take this more seriously than what we have seen in some municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e209	I hope you don't just hope, believe and expect the country's local politicians to take hold of it. I expect the Council of State to take some action, for example. send a circular to the municipalities, highlighting the importance of getting something done. What this matter is about, is getting action, not just talking. I hope the Council of State will make sure that a circular goes out. Further, we can't just say that it's the quality of the food that's given, which is bad. It's not a unique picture. There's a lot of variation. The second big factor is that you have to have time to give that food. The daily life shall not be suspensive. There shall be peace and quiet around a meal. The current situation outside the institutions is marked by the fact that employees are running and running in order to do their best. They're making a great effort, but the resources and the time don't go on. Will the Council of State now ensure that a circular is sent out to the municipalities of the country asking for this to be taken seriously and that action is taken immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e220	First of all, it's not right, as the representative Nesvik here is trying to point out, that this government is not doing anything. We have done far more than the previous government, under which the Progress Party supported. Firstly, we have given NOK 18 billion more to the local government sector during the well over a year and a half we have been in charge. It's just to make sure that we can provide a better and more dignified care for the elderly, it's in a nursing home or it's at home. It is quite obvious that we also need to ensure that employees have time to sit with the elderly or others who also need help, in order to create fun when they are eating their food, for example. I have mentioned the care message, which we have already submitted. We have also recently presented a diet plan. We are now developing professional guidelines for all municipalities. We're monitoring diets, both nutritionally and in other ways, and we're also doing circular work. So the government takes this very seriously. We've already done a lot, and we're going to do more. I believe that food is very underestimated given the importance of food to health, both for the elderly and for younger people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e227	The President will open up four follow-up questions – first, Vigdis Giltun.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e230	I record that the Council of State mentions the additional 18 billion kroner that have been given to the municipalities. Once again, not all municipalities have strengthened the care of the elderly. I was confirmed by the local government in Fredrikstad last Thursday. Although more is allocated to the care sector, care for the elderly is still limited. It is not just the sick home spaces that are exposed to care failure. This also applies to the very highest proportion of residents living at home, and not least to those who have received a nursing home. Many of the nursing homes that are built have become so-called day-care homes, but many of them are served by Open care. There are seriously ill and nurturing people who get to visit three times a day. Many cannot even carry out toilet visits on their own. Will the Council of State do anything to ensure that these nursing homes are staffed 24 hours a day, as they should, and that they are not misinformed when the residents are only visited by Open Care? Many elderly people in nursing homes are being over-followed, both in terms of helping to eat meals and in terms of other necessary care and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e237	There was a lot to do after the previous government in this area. But it's a fact that the majority of municipalities, as I'm familiar with it, have now given priority to care, and not least care for the elderly, in relation to the increased appropriations they have received from the state. That's very good. It is also true that we are on track in relation to the 10,000 new annual works, many with professional competence, that this government has promised within this large-scale period. So it's clear that either one is getting help at home, getting help in nursing homes, or getting help in nursing homes, is one of the points of spending more money on municipalities and getting more employees into this sector that there is to be the necessary time and space for the needs of each individual, no matter in what form a resident lives in. If there is a need for happiness and care, he must be there, or he must make sure that there are people who can treat or help where it is right and necessary. What the government is also going to do is create a new investment grant to build more nursing homes, more nursing homes, also more short-term places at home, and more lifts, so that older people can live longer at home. I think the government has a lot going on, and it's very central that we also get more people into this sector to meet this great need.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e246	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e249	I was glad that the Council of State in its reply to the representative Nesvik did not immediately select the standard response that the old ones were even more undernourished under the previous government. But she found it quite quickly back to the heel in the plate in her subsequent answers. I think most people are really pretty tired of hearing reprisals on the boast over x the number of billions of dollars in increments to the municipalities. The question was much more precise. This is a study that shows that up to half of the older people in the institution are malnourished, or undernourished. There's a reason to think that's the top of the iceberg. Alone residents/inhabitants are likely to be older in many cases in an even more difficult situation. It helps very little to show how many billions of people need to have an increase in the local economy, if what is missing is entirely concrete guidelines and demands on how this should be handled, in the institutional services and in the home services, respectively. It's the responsibility of the Council of States – isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e256	I'm aware of what's my responsibility, and I'm taking it very seriously. But it is not the case either, the representative, that this malnutrition has occurred during the one and a half years this government has been responsible. And then it's also so that the truth might be hard to digest. What I agree with the representative is that it is important that someone now addresses this matter. That's what the Government does. We have already started work on getting local and professional guidelines for this. We have a work going on, together with the municipalities, because I believe that the local authorities, in addition to tasting the food, should also deal with the professional guidelines in their respective municipalities. We have presented our own diet plan which also includes the offer for the elderly. We have submitted a report on care, which is under consideration in the Committee. I'm set to do what I can from my point of view, to help do what we can to ensure that this is not the situation into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e261	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e264	That's now we've got this investigation that concerns us all. As the Council of State knows, there is relatively little nutrition in the care message we now have for treatment in Stortinget. It is true that there has been an action plan from the Government in this area. What I want to focus on is what's happened, and what's the reason why it's like that. We see that many nursing homes today have changed from having the kitchen from which the smell of food came out, where you had competence staff, and where you could prepare individual portions and small portions for those who might not be able to eat so much. This type of staff, perhaps cooks and others with a nutritional background, is no longer present. We know that there is too little time left to feed in a hectic everyday life. What I want to ask the Council of State is whether she can imagine taking the initiative to find out what is actually the cause of malnutrition. It doesn't help with guidelines if you don't know the reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e274	Yes, I can confirm that I will. A survey of caregivers around the country is to be carried out in relation to diet and nutrition status. It is very important for health, as several respondents have also pointed out, that food is nutritionally good, but that is also the case, as the representative Davøy points out, that food is more than that. It's about smell, taste, culture, having a good time and all that. Then, of course, it is important that, as far as possible, we facilitate practical implementation. Therefore, it is not without importance that the municipalities, who are responsible for it, have enough money to do this job. Nor is it irrelevant that we have a sufficient number of employees, with the right skills given the needs that are, be it in nursing homes, in home-based care or in nursing homes. I understand that the representative Davøy and the government agree quite on what is going on to try to help do something about this rather complex problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e279	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e282	The Council of State said earlier today that it is regrettable that we are occasionally exposed to failure in the care of the elderly. But when the Social and Health Directorate has now established that up to 50 pst. of the elderly in Norwegian hospitals are undernourished, as there is a serious warning about a system failure. Getting to a nursing home in older years was supposed to be starting with getting to a safe place. What we're almost getting the impression is that it's going to be pretty easy to get to the hospital. So my question to the Council of State is: Have the Councils of State been aware of the standard of nutrition in Norwegian hospitals, and what will the Council of State do with the obvious quality defect?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e289	No, I have not been aware that it has been as bad as this investigation now reveals. Despite that, we've already grasped this before we got that investigation, but there's reason to take it seriously. There is no doubt that either you are in a nursing home, or getting help and follow-up at home or in nursing homes, food should also be a very important part of the overall offer. There I believe that, over some years in some municipalities, there has been too little focus on just that. We will follow up on guidelines, circulars, monitoring, diet plan, the treatment message, etc. There should be no doubt that this government has, and will in the future, have — especially after what has now been revealed — very much attention to what we can do to do something about this unworthy situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e296	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e299	I have a question for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. There has now been a discussion here about economics, the previous government and child protection. The previous government took a considerable hold before child protection, carried out a major reorganization, and it also costs money. But the situation is that the number of children in need of assistance in the area of child protection is increasing dramatically. Then it doesn't help to discuss just dollars and cents, because the children who are out are not helped by the fact that we're arguing about money. Cows in child protection are growing, and more and more children are waiting for help. I was recently visiting Volda. There's a bunch of research stuff coming up. There have never been so many children waiting to have the case investigated, and these are children who have a very difficult childhood. The add-on process may not provide the necessary help. This pains both the children and the added ones. Many go on demonstration trains when things aren't as they should be, but no one goes on trains for child protection. The Christian People's Party is committed to strengthening child-restraint protection and proposing more resources for this, as well as more resources for the state child-restraint, in our alternative budget. Norsk Fosterheimsforening is one of those who have pointed out that enforcement practices are too bad in many municipalities. Many of the foster children are not allowed to succeed, even if they want to, and foster parents are not given sufficient follow-up. Lack of after-care can lead to the damage that child protection has done for children until they reach the age of 18. At the turn of the year, there were 465 children in More and Romesdal who had not received a case-by-case examination of child protection. That's 17 pst. more than one year ago. We cannot live with a situation where the lack of human resources causes the weakest children to have a poor supply. What would the State Council do to ensure that more children receive help quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e312	This is a serious situation that the representative May-Helen Molvær Grimstad points to. It is the case that child protection reports an annual client growth of about 10 %. 7 pst. The reasons for this are complex. Part of the picture is that child protection is much more open today. There is much more trust in the municipalities, which means that there are new types of enquiries, not just the traditional, heavy things you have experienced in the past. At the same time, we see that there are many people who don't need help and follow-up. It is therefore important that the Child Protection Act is followed. It is important that child protection has enough staff so that you can follow up these matters in a good way. One sees that especially in some of the small municipalities, the challenges are to get matters through quickly enough. Therefore, it is commendable that many municipalities on their own initiative are now entering into a much closer intercommunal cooperation to be able to raise matters more quickly through the system, and also because in some situations it is complicated for a small municipality to handle some of the heavy matters. I want to say that we now have a full review of the state child protection system. We're looking at whether there are weaknesses within this system. There is a new reform that has started to work, and therefore it is also important that the protection of the state's children is given time to put their quality improvements into place in the municipalities. The whole intention of creating the state child protection system from the Bondevik II administration was that one should help the municipalities out with more professional competence, so that one could get help with the heavy and difficult matters. I can promise that this government – with the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health and Justice – is seriously concerned about following up the situation for these children. Therefore, it is important that all establishments in the possession of children and young people provide feedback if you are concerned that children and young people suffer and do not receive the care they should receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e321	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I don't expect the government to introduce a new stop in addition, like the one that was introduced last year for state child protection, because it's important that we get everyone who can work to work in child protection. Some municipalities may experience that they are missing some of them added to the state child protection system, so here there is a need for enough resources and enough staff. I have been told that many people in child protection feel that matters are much heavier than before, and there are bigger and more complex problems. There is a need for comprehensive help, but they cannot provide the help they think is most appropriate for the child, including the child. that it should be as close to their local environment as possible and that if they have to place a child in an institution, they may feel that they must send the child from South Sunnmare up to Trøndelag because there is no other facility available. Although one will try to find other measures as much as possible, sometimes it is in such a situation that one must also have such measures. [[The President clubs.]] Can the Council say something about the closeness of the child’s offerings?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e330	The President will remember that the little red lamp suggests something about the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e333	It's good that the involvement in the Storting is great in this field. With regard to the comment on the temporary stoppage, I would first like to say that after what I seem to remember, if I am not mistaken, the previous government also had some kind of temporary stoppage in the state child protection at that point. The situation is that it is important that we build up more treatment provision within the state child protection system than we have so far. What is just the main thrust of the new reform is that we build new state institutions to offer to the most vulnerable children that we haven't had in public before. In fact, I believe it is important for the state to step in with a stronger responsibility in this field, rather than for commercial operators to make good use of the weakest children year after year because the state does not accept a proper treatment offer. We're doing that, and it'll be important for our weakest children.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e342	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e346	Had it not been for the commercial institutions, we would hardly have had child-restraint seats. So I'm actually getting a little provoked when the Council of State draws this up. It should be much more important to ask yourself why more and more children need the help of child protection and also why they are taken by child protection. Why can't parents take responsibility for their children anymore? Is it because they've been raised in kindergartens almost since they were born? In addition to that, I have a question about whether the child protection policy has been totally misplaced. Now we see a lookup every day. I have a statement from yesterday's VG about a child protection employee who made porno movies with minors. Here I have a look from today about minor asylum seekers who are going to live with women who are engaged in trafficking. Is there any good offer for the children who are in the risk zone? Now, could the Council of State finally imagine looking at a free and independent child-restraint that can oversee the child-restraint institutions, with the whole of child-restraint, because we see that the county officials are not doing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e353	I believe the answers to the developments we have in the field of child protection are many, and they are complex. At least this council does not dare to give a clear answer to the exact reason why there are many children and young people who do not receive the necessary follow-up. But I think it is very serious, and I would also say quite alert, if it is that the Progress Party believes, as it was said, that it is that kindergartens are the reason why we have major challenges in child protection and care failure. I'm actually asking the representative to elaborate on it at a later stage. I have felt that the Progress Party in recent years has fundamentally changed its position in its approach to kindergarten policy, seeing the value of this not only being a safe place for our children, but actually an important quality for our children in the time when parents are at work. What's being said here is causing many parents a bad conscience. It's mind-blowing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e360	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e363	This discussion has shown that we are facing a problem area that is complex, very diverse, and where there are major problems to address. And in a situation where you really have challenges, it's important to do the most important and necessary first. The Council of State concluded its response to me earlier today by saying that there are issues of priority here, and that this must be given priority in relation to other areas. Then I would like to point out that the government has put a great deal of pressure on the municipalities in terms of kindergarten development. Maybe you should now move the pressure to babysitting. I would also like to show that strong government expansion also means pressure on resources, and that is also how resources in municipalities are lost in relation to that problem. Is it perhaps that we should now put ideology and keppfester aside in other areas a little bit to do the most important thing first, and that's getting to grips with those who need it the most, namely those who get their concerns posted?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e372	I want to say that I actually share the opinion of the representative Olemic Thommessen that it is important that we follow up the weakest first. I also feel that this is something that the municipalities are constantly trying to work out. So we also know that there is a competition for resources, and my hope is that you can manage to get a much stronger boost out in the municipalities. That's why I say that we need to put in place a stronger politicisation, a stronger commitment also to our municipal politicians for what's happening in the area of child protection. This does not mean that this government does not take responsibility. We follow closely to the statesmen, who are to supervise the proper functioning of child protection in our country. That's also why we have now built up a state child-restraint with new institutions. It's a confession that commercial institutions have done a lot of the work because for many years we don't have the power to deliver good enough policies from this room. I'm very happy if we can get an interaction between opposition and position on these issues, because that will benefit the weakest children in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e379	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e382	A year and a half feels like an infinite length of time in a child's life. It's an infinite length of time for a child suffering from care failure, but it's obviously an incredibly short time in the life of a Council of State. I'd rather straighten out my hand to the Council of State and give her a challenge in terms of future visions of post-protection, which the main questioner had to face. Everyone we know that it's important for mom and dad to be 18 years old, but everyone we also know that mom and dad can be very important in all the important decisions you're going to make from one to 18 and maybe to one in the 20s. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State is willing to assess what Left has wanted, that we could have also legislated a right to child-restraint protection that ensures a certain degree of security around them by having some adult persons responsible for them and following them up, who are with them in all the difficult discussions and all the difficult decisions that are in one's life from one is 18?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e391	The question that the representative Skei Grande is now raising is a very important question. Fortunately, today’s law opens up the possibility for adults — they are no longer children — between 18 and 23 years of age to receive post-treatment and follow-up from child protection. We see that there is an increased need for it, and we also know that in this field the job has not always been done in a good enough way. Clearly, children who have been in a difficult care situation and have experienced crisis situations need help beyond the age of 18. That's why it's important that we follow this closely. I can promise the representative Skei Grande that we will of course also assess whether there are further measures we are going to put in addition to what we have at our disposal today, to capture just this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e398	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e401	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. The question is related to local hospitals. The left has a fight for local hospitals and they're supposed to be a security base for people in District Norway. I'm not going to hide that in the Left we were very pleased with the Government's statement from Soria Moria, saying, "No local hospital should be closed." What I'm wondering about, however, is whether the Soria Moria statement is still in force at this point. The background to this is that, as the Council of State has probably found out, the central party representative Ola Borten Moe in the address paper last Friday went out and said, as we can see from this essay I have here, that one would lay down the hospital at Røros. I have to say that I was mildly said very surprised, not least because I think well that the colleague of the Council of State here, Haga of the Center Party, was in and out of the torch and held a flaming appeal on Nordfjordeid before the election. The main content of the appeal was that the Senterpartiet should be the guarantor of the local hospital. I must say that when I now see the Senterpartie's husband going in to lay down the hospital at Røros, this guarantee is a little faith-enhancing. So this government promise is broken by one of the government partners, and my question to the government council is therefore the following: Is the government council behind the play of the central government party on the closure of the local hospital at Røros?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e412	The government insists that no local hospital should be closed. This also applies to the hospital at Røros, so that that doubt should be cleared out of the way. So it's also that we're very concerned about the content of the local hospital. We can't just maintain them without proper content. In general, there may be changes in the future. We have to make sure that it is good quality, but that it is close to those who need help and treatment in hospitals. That is also the reason why I set down a separate sample to go through the local hospitals and the contents of the local hospitals, which comes with an adjustment to me in the middle of March. So the government, as also the representative Ludvigsen is familiar with, has added NOK 3 billion more to the hospital in general for the current year. It's a historically high amount. We have now added 50 million from this money. kr intended specifically for testing different models within the local hospital. This may apply to the emergency department, to the maternity department, to the rehabilitation department or to others, and not least to the interaction between the hospital and primary health care. I hope that in this way we will be able to calm this situation a little bit more and provide greater security for those patients who need help, whether they live in North Norway or in South Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e422	I thank you for the answer, but I'm not calm when I see this heading, and when the council says that one is busy with content. We are also in the Left not least – we also have programmable content. But if one were to go so far as to say that a local hospital at Røros would be filled with rehabilitation services, I think there are very few people who believe that the bypass “hospital” still has the same meaning as before. Otherwise, there is another point that I would like to draw from this article. Ola Borten Moe wants some sort of compensation for this proposal. He proposes to lay down the hospital at Røros, but then he says he wants the hospital on Tynset transferred to Health Mid-Norway. I see it as the Center Party, and the Borten Moe in particular, are certainly experts on husband change within agriculture, but my question to the Council of State is: Is make change a suitable method for shutting down Røros Hospitals in particular and local hospitals in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e433	The government has only one view in this case, and it is that no local hospital is to be closed down. We're not going to be able to say that. This also applies to Røros Hospital. With regard to the issue of hospitals in Røros and Tynset, which is located in the mountain region and now in the peripheral zone of the new health region, the new south-east RHF, there are some of the things we are going to consider in this process until aggregation. There's nothing that's determined. It is not certain that the hospital at Tynset is going to Health Mid-Norway, and it is not certain that Røros Hospital is going to Health South-East, but we have a round of it. In that process, of course, we have to listen to everyone who has opinions about it, but here it's not concluded. But what is clear is that Røros Hospital is not to be laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e440	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e443	What makes a hospital a hospital and a local hospital a local hospital is the service performed within the walls, not the building body. In other words, by redefining the content of a local hospital, such as a local hospital. have done in Sandefjord, for example Rehabilitation, it's actually not a hospital anymore, and you have to go in and look at the contents. We must not – I was about to say – cheat on the subject, as Ola Borten Moe does through this essay. One simply runs a fight through the media that creates great uncertainty. There is considerable uncertainty about the recruitment of local hospitals. The citizens feel uncertain about what will happen to our hospitals in the future, and it is this situation that the Council of State must take responsibility for, and ensure that it is put to death. It is therefore time to get to grips with the contents of the hospitals. Because, as the Soria Moria statement says, no local hospital is to be closed, but you don't say what these hospitals are to contain. In this context, the Council of State must now get on the road quickly after this sample has been set up in March and ensure that the content of the local hospitals is defined and that the patients to be treated are treated.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e450	Yes, I fully agree that the content is very important, and that was also the whole background for putting down the Local Hospital Committee, which is soon to come with its attitude. I can assure the representative Nesvik and Stortinget that I will follow up as soon as possible after we get that setting on the table. We're also going, as we know, to follow up on trying out different models of how to operate local hospitals in the future. There'll probably be a little different content across the country, because the country is so different, and the distances are so different, but the whole purpose of the work that's now going on is to create more peace and more security for the patients. So I look forward to that setting and will follow up as soon as I get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e457	Sonja Irene Sjøli – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e460	Governments mentioned the provision of food in their response. In a chronicle in Dagbladet on 16 February, the head of the National Council for Childbirth Care, Pál Øian, clearly states that the provision of food in many local hospitals is being operated irresponsibly. It is unacceptable that feeding women in the districts should be given false security by guarding a gynecologist. The size has unanimously adopted guidelines involving a decentralised food supply. However, the premise was that the feeding rooms in the district were to offer an offer to women with normal pregnancy and expected normal birth. Pål Øian now says clearly from here, as the Council did in a letter to the Council last year, that this is not working, and that many risk births are now taking place in the birthplace under false security. This situation therefore threatens the provision of food to women in the district. My question is what the Council of State will do to follow up the decision of the Storting and to ensure a proper offer to nurturing women in the district.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e467	Let me first say that we are very lucky to live in one of the countries in the world where childbirth is safest. That doesn't mean it's not a potential for improvement. I agree with Mr Oian on that. I take seriously what he says in that article, and as I have also heard he has said too much. Of course, what the Storting has decided on a differentiated maternity and maternity provision should be a reality. I know it's not always like this everywhere in the country. I know at least that in some places in the country, the number of births goes down sharply, and you move towards a limit in relation to what can be recommended, in the light of safety. We haven't crossed that limit, but I look very carefully at it. I'm going to have a dialogue with Pål Øian and the council he's running. I'm going to have a dialogue with the local population in those municipalities and with the hospitals where this is most topical for the time being, and not least with professionals who know best how to do this. I can also assure the representative, Sjøli, that the Government is now making its own plan to get an even more up-to-date offer in terms of both maternity, maternity and maternity care in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e472	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e475	The working group that assesses the future of local hospitals has, as I understand it, in a preliminary report addressed a wide range of competences in all local hospitals – that the staff are assembled and know a lot about most things, such as: in acute situations. Many, both people and employees, are uncertain about the government's previous signals regarding local hospitals, and are concerned that hospitals will be able to maintain emergency preparedness. As I see it, people need to know that if they get acutely ill, emergency preparedness with staff skills will be available near where most live. My question to the Council of State is whether this is compatible with the ever-increasing focus of the Government on centralisation, specialisation and division of tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e484	I find it unnatural to comment on some interim reports from the Local Hospital Committee before seeing everything in a context. Of course, we also need to take into account that there are long distances in parts of our country when discussing, for example. the relationship with emergency response, and the fact that many ambulances today are quite different from what they were 10–15 years ago in the case of equipment and personnel, even if there is something to go on in that area. So I'm very concerned that we're going to get a content at our local hospital that provides security, but there must also be a work division between the hospitals. The latest evaluation report that came yesterday showed that we are not fully committed to it in order to ensure the best possible quality for patients. Cancer surgery is an example of the fact that centralisation has been absolutely necessary — not in the sense of centralising to, for example: Oslo, but that we have it in fewer places, so those who do have a lot of practice doing that kind of pretty difficult operations. We need to have more of this in some areas, but it does not contradict the fact that local hospitals in Norway will have more than enough to do in the future. That's enough for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e492	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e495	My question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. Gender impairment occurs in 2007. According to the NRK and the Daily Newspaper, 130 elderly women are opened every year at the Women's Clinic at Ullevål University Hospital. Girls all the way down to their 10-year-olds get to open the abdomen in surgery. Gender mutilation is prohibited in Norway, but without effective measures to stop this horrific violence against children in parts of the immigrant community, no further progress is made. An effective measure would have been to introduce clinical observation of female genital organs during current health checks, as the Progression Party has actually proposed on a number of occasions. In St.meld. No 4 for 2006-2007, it appears that the Social and Health Directorate advises against the use of mandatory health control, as it is so-called suitable for stigmatising groups of the population. The Directorate believes that such a system can be perceived as offensive by those involved, and even tries to invoke international conventions, which, moreover, are not a particularly unknown tactic when trying to stop effective integration measures. Is it really the government's more concerned not to stigmatise parts of the immigrant population than to help young immigrant girls who are undergoing sexual mutilation? If so, how will the Council of State take effective action?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e506	The whole cross-cutting theme is a very serious topic, against which it is very difficult to find good and targeted action. One of the concrete measures assessed by the Government is the clinical observation of the female sex organ. The Social and Health Directorate has looked at and assessed aspects of this, and their assessments are, of course, part of the basis of the Government. We're going to come back to our position on this very topic. This would have been one measure. It's important that when we're dealing with intersections, we have to have a wide range of measures in place. Then it is important that the abstinence obligation is followed. This means that employees who work in public offices and who come into contact with girls who are at risk of being circumcised report. If not, it is actually a one-year penalty in Norway. There is also the possibility of fines. In addition, we are now working for the first time to put in place clean information measures for those who experience family reunification. It hasn't been done before. It's important that we reach out with information. What we're struggling with throughout our integration debate is how we're going to reach our new countrymen with good information about what Norwegian law is. In this case, it is about some of the most serious abuses a young child may be exposed to. It causes suffering for an entire life. Therefore, I can also assure you that the Government is now working offensively on this. During the spring we will present a new action plan for this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e519	Prior to the 2005 elections, the Prime Minister, Mr Bekkemmelm, was extremely critical of the Bondevik II government because effective measures were not put in place to combat sexual harassment. The government has now had almost one and a half years to take effective action, such as mandatory health control. Here you know a lot. Experience from France shows that this actually works. This one measure could perhaps have stopped the whole issue, and it is not particularly difficult to introduce. I know, and I think that's interesting, that there's actually disagreement within the government about this. Arild Stokkan-Grande, Labour Party immigration policy spokesperson, has been out in the media and said that he wants to implement mandatory health checks immediately. Does the State Council share the assessment with the Labour Party's immigration policy spokesman?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e526	It is such that the government is working on concrete assessments in this field. We've also started our own screening work, so that we get more knowledge of the scope. What my personal position is, and has been, in this field, I think the representative is familiar with, but when you go into a college, you obviously have to carefully evaluate all sides. We're doing that work now. We're going to get back to that. So I also want to tell you a little bit more about the work we're doing on the intersection. We're now expanding internationally to look at the experiences that, among other things, France has in this field. We know that there is a lot to learn from what the Swedes have done. We're building up a kind of experience in this field, because it's complicated. This is not about any lack of political will on the part of the Government, and we are now finishing work on both forced marriage and circumcision, where we will come up with a new action plan. I presented an action plan when I was the last State Council. In fact, little has happened on this topic in the four years we've been out of government offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e535	There will be three follow-up questions – first Kari Lise Holmberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e538	I would first like to stress that one girl who is being circumcised is one girl too much. Gender mutilation is prohibited by law in Norway. It is punishable, and we have strict criminal provisions. Nevertheless, we have no judge in this area. It's a cross of thought, and it's a challenge for the authorities, because we know that punishment seems preventative. My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Health. The country's health professionals meet hundreds of girls who are circumcised. The Minister for Children and Family Affairs will have compulsory health control of these children. The reality is that many of these children are discovered by our health professionals. Nevertheless, we do not have any examples of the Norwegian ban being followed up in the justice system. Cropping is a criminal activity that needs to be stopped. What will the Minister of Health do to ensure that health professionals begin to follow up on these issues, not only with regard to child protection, but especially with regard to the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e547	As has been said here, we have a law of our own that prohibits sexual mutilation. It's an assault on the girls who are being subjected to this, as many people have been involved. In order to reinforce this effort, the law introduces something called compulsory deterrence. This means that employees in kindergartens, in child protection, in health and social services, in schools, in school leisure schemes and in religious communities have an obligation to avert this if they are able to do so in advance. In case of concern or suspicion of sexual mutilation — whether it is on the way, whether it is planned — advice and guidance will be central to the statutory obligation of health professionals to prevent sexual mutilation, for it is a legal obligation. We're looking at this, also from the Government's side, as the Council of State has been briefed. We have a very active work going on, and we come back with a plan and a matter of this in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e554	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e557	I have a follow-up question for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. It is not true that nothing happened under the previous government in the case of measures against circumcision. The Bondevik II Government presented an action plan of more than 30 measures, including: comprehensive national information and education activities, stepping up Norway’s financial support to local Norwegian voluntary organisations and to UN organisations working against gender mutilation. Save the Children and other organisations with them have come up with interesting methods of working when it comes to combating gender mutilation. There's been a focus on knowledge and information. For example, in Gonder, Ethiopia, 98 pst. by all born girls avoided circumcision. These are very interesting and eye-catching positive news. It's important to listen to what Red Children and others can contribute to here. How much do governments spend on this work, in addition to their strong commitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e566	I would like to underline what the representative says about the fact that international efforts on measures against interception are actually beneficial. Among other things, Redd Barna has done an important job in Ethiopia. I've been there myself, and the experience from there is that this works. Therefore, it is important for this government that we have an aid policy that focuses much more on the situation of women and children than what may have been a fact up to now. I feel that this in the house is a great cross-political consensus that we need to have a more focused effort in relation to gender impairment also in our international work, and I will be going to reinforce the efforts at this point. We have put more money into the national bet. We also work very closely with our entire external system to see if we can make improvements in the form of concrete projects in some of the most vulnerable countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e572	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e575	The representative of Molvær Grimstad tells what the previous government has done. Interestingly, this government says that the previous government didn't do anything, and they refer to the law decisions that we did, like fine measures, that Brustad State Council has done. I have two questions for the Council of State. The first is, some of us are very precise in referring to this as'sex mutilation', while the Council of State obviously wants to use it a little more neutral word 'circumcision'. I would like the Council of State to say why she does not want to use the name that I believe is the right one, namely, «sex mutilation». The second question is that this is primarily a cultural issue. This is not linked to religion. For example, in most countries where this happens, it happens. Both in Christian and Muslim environments. That means it's important to turn cultures around, and it's important to use people to turn cultures around. That's what the previous government did, using people inside the different environments to join and run campaigns and turn cultures. Will the Council of State also take this up and work that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e584	First of all, I want to say that if it is the case that the representative Trine Skei Grande believes that it is a kind of downgrading and a downpriority to use the word ‘circumcision’ instead of ‘sex mutilation’, then of course it is not right. Maybe it's a little bit easier to use that expression. But I can assure you that there is no deliberate policy in this, that it should not be so important when using the word "circumcision". So at least it has to be cleared out of the way. As for what our government has done and what the previous government has done, I would actually like to have competition in this field. If that's how we can compete a little bit in this field, I think it's excellent with respect to the young girls who are in danger of being circumcised. In terms of what we can put into action of different types of action, as said, the Government is now going through this. We are looking at how we can improve prevention. We have to go inside and look at what health professionals can do. We also have to look at the post-treatment of these girls. Then it's important that we at the same time work very consciously with our international efforts. As I said, there's a lot of contacts. We are working offensively on this issue, and I think we also need to use the possibility within the UN system to raise these issues far higher on the international agenda than what has been done up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-21.ana.ud1487e595	The oral question procedure is over. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? –
