ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e69	The representatives of Trond Helleland, Leif Helge Kongshaug and Trine Skei Grande, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. Four permit applications are available: from 20 February onwards and until further notice from the Central Party on the sick leave of the representative, Mr Ola Borten Moe, from 20 February onwards, and until further notice from the representative, Mr Jan Petersen, on Tuesday 20 February, to take part in the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Brussels from the representative, Mr Dagfinn Højbrätten, on leave from 20 February to 22 February, in cooperation with Norad, in order to visit vaccine projects in Malawi and participate in the Conference of Democracy in Nairobi These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the South-Trøndelag County, Trond Nylende Jær, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinge under the representative Ola Borten Moes leave, due to illness. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Cathrin BretzegFor Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid SvendsenFor South Trondelag County: Randi Sollie DenstadFor Westfold County: Tom Stroemstad Olsen2. Cathrin Bretzeg and Randi Sollie Denstad are elected to the Lamentations for the time they meet respectively for the representative Jan Petersen and the representative Ola Borten Moe.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e142	Cathrin Bretzeg, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, Randi Sollie Denstad and Tom Stroemstad Olsen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e148	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is considered unanimously elected president of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e158	Before we go to the agenda, the President will state that there will be a roll-call roll-call on matters. 1 and 3, but it's only going to be at the end of the meeting. It is a historic day that we have ahead of us in dealing with these Constitutional proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e185	As the President-in-Office of the Council has just said, it is a historic day today. It is expected that the Constitution will be amended in important areas, so that the Riksrecht will again be made usable — to use the expression of former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch in a constitutional seminar a few days ago — and significant changes will be made to the national law system, which will make the Riksrecht applicable again. Parliamentaryism is also being introduced into the written constitution. It has been estimated that parliamentaryism has been a constitutional practice, but it is now also included in the formal constitution. Finally, the information obligation of the Government and the members of the Government towards the Stortinget will be laid down in the Constitution, if the unanimous decision is approved by a majority of two thirds at today's vote. Discussions on the National Court Institute have been going on for many years and were probably also one of the reasons why a broad political sample was set up a few years ago, called the Frøiland Committee, which assessed Storting’s control of the administration. One of the results of the debate on the Middle East. S. No 210 for 2002-2003 from the Control and Constitutional Committee in the case following the suspension of the Frøiland Committee, the then Grand President Jørgen Kosmo took the initiative to set up a selection mandated to explore alternatives to the national justice system and to formulate alternative constitutional proposals. A selection consisting of Grand President Jørgen Kosmo was appointed, signed and the external members of the Ombudsman of the administration of Arne Flivet, Professor Bjørn Erik Rasch and former Supreme Justice Carsten Smith. The COSMO Committee, drawn up under its mandate, is a completely new proposal for a national legal system. It was promoted as a constitutional proposal by the then members of the Presidency and dealt with by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. The Committee considers that it is right to retain the Riksrecht as a specialised court for a defined constitutional responsibility and to support the proposals made, both in terms of organisation and the basis of responsibility. National law will be enshrined in today's parliamentary system, and we agree with the assessment of the need to build up those aspects of the previous system – that is, today's system – which link criminal liability to very wide-ranging and pronounced policy assessment themes. It is also clarified in the proposal of the Basic Law § 86 and in the following liability law that constitutional liability is limited to breaches of constitutional obligations imposed on state councils, depositors and Supreme Court judges. The Committee therefore concludes that there is a restriction on the liability charged to the Riksrecht in relation to the present system. With regard to the composition of the Riksrecht, there is a significant change. Today, it is the Supreme Court judge and the members of the Supreme Court who make up the Court of Justice. It is also the case that national law cases are brought in the landfill building, in the laying room, and it is Odelstinget that is the prosecution authority. That means that if a case was to be brought before the Court of Justice, many would claim that the ordinary business of Storting would be paralyzed. That's why it's going to be a violent event if there's a case going to be raised. In the proposal, the composition and the prosecution authority are amended. The new national court will consist of six grand-appointed members and five Supreme Court judges, with the President of the Supreme Court – to replace the old one, where it was the President of the Lamentations. For the Supreme Court, it will be after the seniority of the Supreme Court, while for the Grand Duchy members it will be appointed in a regular manner, such as when the Grand Duchy makes elections to committees, selections and positions. There is reason to believe that the six members appointed by the Stortinget could often be former representatives of big business with considerable experience and probably also an important political career behind them. It'll be up to the Storting and the groups if that appointment happens. So it's going to be a smaller national court, but there's still a majority in the Supreme Court that comes from the Grand Duchy, because there are six grand jury members and five Supreme Court judges. There will also be alternates for the members nominated by the grand total, if, for any reason, there is an inadequacy in a case, or for any other reason the case cannot be implemented. In the Supreme Court, the principle of seniority would be followed if that were to be inconsistency. In the past, it has been Odelstinget who has been the prosecution authority and who is suing after it has been prepared in a separate protocol committee under the Rules of Procedure of the Stortinge. It will now be changed so that the prosecution authority will formally be the Stortingen, while in practice there will be a responsibility commission that does much of the concrete work, and is also expected to assist the Stortingen if a case is raised. The Liability Commission will also be a permanent commission which will be able to enter into force and investigate a case if it is decided by the Storting that such an investigation will be carried out. Unless the majority of cases are ordered or immediately decided to bring an action, it would be sufficient for one third of the members of the Grand Duchy to decide that the responsibilities of the Commission should initiate investigations or investigations into a complex of cases which could potentially lead to an action being brought. This responsibility commission will also work independently of the Storting and will not impose any complications on the Storting, so that the ordinary work of the Storting can continue unhindered from the very beginning by considering raising the question of constitutional liability. The Liability Commission shall then present its position to the Stortinget, and it shall conclude that proceedings should either be brought, or no action should be brought. Then it is the Stortninget by ordinary majority decisions that decides, where appropriate, that a case should be raised. There is also a legal system for how this is to be implemented. Enquiries to the Grand Council to travel national law are coming to the Presidency today. Sometimes they are automatically deposited only because it's obvious that they can't show up. This feature of receiving these requests will be moved to the Enlarged Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. The authority there will be the same. You can plot because it's obvious that what's claimed can't lead to any charges. If one third of the Grand Duchy's Supervisory and Constitutional Committee believes that this should be investigated, investigated and evaluated, then one third of the members of the Grand Duchy's Supervisory and Constitutional Committee could promote the position on this to the Grand Duchy. Thus, there are minority rights – in terms of one third – both during the Committee’s preparatory work and in the storeroom, unless the majority of people immediately conclude that nothing will happen or that they will be charged. This is a continuation of the minority rights in the control activities of the Storting that were introduced a few years ago. The background to minority rights is, of course, that if there is a majority government, as we now have, such a majority in the United Kingdom would be able to block some control work, and it was a total accumulation that did not find appropriate or sensible in a democracy. That is why minority rights are granted precisely in the control activities, which is why an overall committee also wants to continue with regard to the national justice system. So there's a kind of description of the new system to replace the old one in terms of the composition of the Riksrecht and who should be the prosecution authority. If this is adopted, this is one of the reasons why you could do something about Odelstinget and Lagninget. So in reality, the prerequisite for voting in case no. 3 that the proposals in question are in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article. 1 is adopted, i.e. that for the purposes of national law, no longer requires bulwarking and laying. The Kosmo Committee found out in its discussions that, in order to make extensive changes to the Constitution, it could also be in a position to legislate parliamentarianism. It is a proposal to which a unanimous Supervisory and Constitutional Committee agrees, to introduce in Section 15 of the Constitution an obligation for the Government to apply for dismissal and for the King an obligation to grant the application for a motion of censure. So it is an introduction of the parliamentary principle into the Constitution. A change is made in the case of a pardon, in order to conform to the normal, that a person who has received a penalty in the Riksrecht may also be pardoned. It's not like that today. Here is the setting that the King may also pardon one who has been punished for Riksrecht, but it must be with the consent of Storting. There is also an amendment to the Basic Law, Section 30, by removing the criterion «is likely to be harmful to the Kingdom» in the Basic Law, which is based on criminal liability, which is very wide-ranging and explicit policy assessment themes. So it's not going on. Because there is probably a politically controversial question as to whether there is something a Council of States does, which ‘is likely to be harmful to the Kingdom’. That criterion then falls away. There are also proposals for a base law on disclosure obligations. The obligation to provide information is a great deal of literature, but not so many specific legal rules, although some parts of the Liability Act may well be said to contain a part of the disclosure obligation. The COSMO Committee proposed, and it is a co-ordinated Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that agrees that constitutional law is also included in the written Constitutional Law. I can also mention briefly for Stortinget that it is a complete arrangement today, in the sense that it will be a meeting in Odelstinget later that will also deal with the necessary changes to the Liability Act and the National Court Act, which the changes made to the Constitution really require. In the next case there will also be amendments to the Rules of Procedure. All of these therefore require the adoption of the draft Constitutional Laws at the Innst. S. No 107, which I have the great joy and honour to recommend the Stortinge to vote for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e231	The President was obliged not to inform us that, at the Committee's request, we are dealing with cases No. 1 and 2 as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e234	Then I have to say a few more words.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e241	All right. But the president thought it also came out of the post the Vice President now held.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e244	Not exactly. Because I wasn't sure. I listened to the President's opening – if it were to be treated together. Then I was going to do it, but I didn't hear it, and then I thought that it wasn't. But then we just fix it straight up. What I have to do then is first of all to make a correction in the setting in case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox There is an incurrency that removes a sentence that is stated in the decision: «§ 14 a deleted.» It must be stated in column 2 on page 4 in front of it, where it says «§ 14 b becomes § 14 a.» We cannot create a new section 14 a without repealing the old section 14 a, and it was by an incurrency lapsed. What is happening in the Rules of Procedure is the introduction of, among other things, the fact that one third of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee may bring an action. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee takes over from the Presidency the question of making constitutional liability applicable, as I mentioned in my statement, and there are also other practical changes taking place. The Committee has chosen to make a minor change to what was proposed by the COSMO Committee, namely that before any proposal to assert constitutional responsibility towards any person comes to vote in the Grand Chamber, the matter shall have been prepared by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. It could be thought that questions of raising constitutional responsibilities appeared in another committee, which then made proposals directly in the hall, and it could also be thought that someone made a proposal directly in connection with a debate in the main hall, at the time of filing before noon. 9th@item: inlistbox Here we have proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure which, in both these contexts, will result in this proposal being examined by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs before voting. If it is presented in the Chamber, the Committee on Control and Constitution shall be sent, which shall give its opinion. If there is a committee which makes a proposal for constitutional liability applicable, the draft suspension of that committee shall be forwarded to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee before its final release. Thus, the Stortinget is guaranteed that a question of asserting constitutional responsibility to someone does not come to voting in the Chamber until it has been dealt with by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, i.e. in a safe and thorough manner, as we have had it to date. If a decision is taken in Odelstinget on legislative changes that have not been dealt with in committee, it shall be made before it comes to Creation. Otherwise I refer to the setting, which goes a little bit closer to some details. This proposal, however, is based on the fact that the draft constitution is in substance. 1 shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e255	Fortunately, we have little experience with the national justice system. The last time it was used was in 1926 against Prime Minister Abraham Berge. He saved the Handelsbank, but without the necessary coverage in Stortinget. However, he was acquitted. Although the Riksrecht has not been in use since 1926, it would have been wrong to say that it has not played a role. In the context of the review of the Gardermout Building, one of the Smith Committee's conclusions was that it should be assessed whether there was a basis for an action of national law against former Minister of Transport Lars Gunnar Lie for a breach of the information obligation. That's the way it went that's not known. But the question of the use of the national court institute has also been raised in other contexts. In addition, such an instrument will always be there as an opportunity and – we hope – as an additional inspiration to the care of those who can end up on the ground. The majority of the Frøiland Committee, which was set up to assess the national legal system, proposed to wind it up. The committee considered that all criminal offences committed by Supreme Court judges, state councils and magistrates should be dealt with by the General Courts and on the basis of general criminal law, but with some specific rules relating to the offences of state councils on specific constitutional obligations. In assessing Riksrecht, it is important to distinguish between the need to punish ministers for their criminal offences — that is to say, the emphasis on following responsibility with power — and a separate system of national law to enforce criminal liability. One thing is whether and, where appropriate, under what conditions a minister should be liable for his actions under criminal law. Other things are how to organise the procedure to ensure that criminal liability is enforced. When discussing the suspension of the Frøiland Committee, the Workers' Party members of the Control and Constitution Committee felt that it was wrong for the ordinary prosecution authority to be given responsibility for investigation and prosecution, as proposed by the Committee. They referred to the discussion of the sample around the question and the fact that the government of the Council of State can instruct the prosecution authority. Although one in the form of a law takes away the authority of instruction in such cases, it would be associated with political sensitivity because of the link with the government. Against this background, we are pleased that there is now an agreement to maintain a national law system as a specialised court and with its own procedural rules. The main objection to today's system is that it is too political in its composition. As also pointed out by the Frøiland Committee, it is unlikely that many will have particular confidence that such a court can be sufficiently independent. In fact, two thirds of the judges may have taken a position on the matter in question. It is also unlikely that a national court case is entirely free of political overtones — to say it carefully — and that it will be difficult to trust that two thirds of the judges will be able to ignore it altogether. Out of the eight national justice cases that had been raised, six had travelled between 1814 and 1845. National law was also a mechanism for resolving disputes between government and corruption. An important change in the parliamentary system since then is the introduction of parliamentaryism. It has given Stortinget a completely different opportunity to resolve political conflicts between parliament and government. The aim of the change that is now taking place is to reverse the subject of national law's assessment, to build up the legal aspects and to bring down the political aspects. The national court shall, as pointed out by the Advocate General, be a specialised court for a defined constitutional liability. National liability shall be reduced to unlawful acts, relating to the specific responsibilities arising from holding the country's top offices and offices. As the Committee points out in its position, there is currently no need for the Storting to have a national court institute to settle disputes between government and magnificence. Such disputes can and should be resolved by political and non-judicial means. I would like to point out one thing in terms of the composition of the new parliament. The Constitutional Bill states that a member of the Stortinget or the Government cannot be among the six members of the Stortinget. Although the legal text does not exclude the appointment of alternate representatives for Stortinget, I believe that this results from the intentions behind the legislative wording. It cannot be ruled out that an alternate may be called and thus be at risk of being in possession of the matter as a representative in which he or she may be a judge. I therefore assume that the election of the six members of the new national court should also be disregarded. I do not go into other aspects of the new national law system, as the case-rapporteur did so thoroughly, and refer to the vote. However, this setting covers more than the amendment of the national law regime. It also involves the modernisation of the Basic Law, with both the government's obligation to disclose information, the government's obligation to seek dismissal and the King's obligation to grant it after a motion of censure is written in the House of Commons. Thus, parliamentarianism is grounded, over 120 years after the principle was shattered. The fact that it has taken so long can lead to different reflections. Getting the Constitutional Map to vote with the terrain is a time-consuming process. But, fortunately, it is also that a well-founded and functioning democracy does not depend on the letter of the Constitution when the time has run out of the sovereign framework of state rule and statehood.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e293	A proposal for changes to the national court institute was also considered during the previous enlargement period. No one supported the proposal that was at that time. The present proposal is therefore substantially different. Since then, the selection set up by the Presidency has carried out a thorough investigation of alternatives to the existing national law regime and presented this to the Stortinget in Document No. 19 for 2003-2004. This work has also provided the basis for the proposals for amendments to the Constitution that we are now considering. The national justice system has for a long time been mature for changes that strengthen the legal aspects of the scheme. The system has also called for cumbersome procedures for initiating a national court process, which has, however, made the Riksrecht a little relevant and appropriate legal institute in today’s society. The right is therefore satisfied with the present proposal for changes to the scheme. There are now changes that will reduce the space for a political-legal discretionary exercise, which will strengthen the legal protection of those who fall under the regime, and at the same time make the Riksrecht a more relevant device – or I would like to use the expression quoted by former Prime Minister Kåre Willoch: a more customary device. Legal protection is strengthened by the deletion of criminal liability related to prominent policy assessment themes from the responsibilities of the national legal system. At the same time, the Riksrecht is made more relevant than the Judicial Institute through the changes in its composition. The fact that there are no longer judges to be representatives of the population, but instead of being replaced by elected judges, is likely to, in addition to a clearer basis of responsibility, lower the threshold in order to make the scheme effective. This is positive, not because one wants frequent use of the Riksrecht, but because an easier accessible and more depoliticised national legal system ensures legal certainty, both for the community represented by the State and for individual state councils, foregone representatives and for Supreme Court judges. This could be done, for example, by: no longer under the same right, it is claimed that a State Council ‘goes free’ because the national court procedures are too demanding to initiate, or that a national court will only be considered as part of a political game. In addition, this constitutional change is a natural and welcome opportunity to legislate parliamentarism, by the government's obligation to inform the Stortinget and the obligation to apply for a motion of censure. It may be said that after 120 years such modernisation was indeed in time, but, on the other hand, parliamentaryism has also worked well for 120 years without the letter of the Constitution. Yes, you can look around the world, or at least in Europe, and find that parliamentaryism actually works very well in countries that have no written constitution. Of course, with power it must follow a concrete responsibility. By continuing the exercise of the Riksrecht in a new form, as envisaged by the unanimous decision of the Committee, responsibilities could be properly exercised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e314	The last time the national law regime was subject to a review was in 1932. However, the scheme remains essentially as laid down in the Constitution of 1814. The size has discussed changes several times in the past, including: in the examination of the suspension of the Frøiland Committee and in the case of constitutional proposals in earlier periods. The Christian People's Party has on these occasions rejected changes in the national order. However, during the previous magnification period, we supported the further investigation of alternatives to the national law system. The selection, led by former President-in-Office Jørgen Kosmo, presented proposals for an overall alternative to the current system and stressed the design of a model that could bring together broad political support. The selection also sought to limit the audit to what was considered necessary to address the clearest weaknesses of the current system. The Presidency of the previous enlargement period presented proposals for constitutional changes based on the proposals of that sample, and this is what we are now discussing. The action before the Court of Justice has not been taken since the case against the Berge Government in 1926-27, as others have mentioned. However, national law has been assessed on some occasions without any action being brought. The current national law system is cumbersome and has legal certainty concerns. Nor does it have the same meaning in a parliamentary system. The main reason why national law has been very rarely used is, however, that it is very rare that state councils, poachers' representatives and Supreme Court judges are guilty of acts qualifying for the prosecution of national law. The rule of law has evolved since the adoption of the Constitution, and it is important that the national legal system conforms to the ideals of legal certainty that apply elsewhere in society. It is, in particular, the relationship between the accusing and judgmental authorities in today's system that can help to weaken the credibility and legitimacy of the Court of Justice. The work of the Stortinget has been set up in committees and party groups, so far as the initial phase is concerned, with questions of appeal or could not also involve representatives to be judged later. It is also easy to question whether party membership will affect the judgements of the elected judges. However, let me stress that there is still a need for a national law system. Governments, grubbing-up representatives and Supreme Court judges shall be held responsible when they have committed unlawful acts. If they commit unlawful acts which any other citizen may commit, they shall be treated in the same way as others in the ordinary course of action. The responsibilities of national law will be limited to the specific responsibilities arising from responsibilities and duties. National law is passed on as a special court for a limited, constitutional liability. Paragraph 86 of the Basic Law, the National Law, and the Liability Act, specify the detailed provisions of the Law on Penalty/Punishment for acts charged by national law, delimiting the constitutional liability to violations of constitutional obligations imposed on state councils, bailiffs and Supreme Court judges. Political disagreement between magnification and government must be resolved by political means, not by law. The government's obligation to provide information to the Storting and the obligation to apply for a waiver of a motion of censure are proposed under the Constitution. With this constitution, Parliamentaryism is in reality established. The jurisdiction of the national court is extended to compensation cases, irrespective of whether criminal proceedings are carried out and whether the defendants are convicted in a specific case. The new regulation provides for the establishment of a permanent committee of responsibility prepared to investigate and investigate a case with a view to clarifying whether there is a basis for making constitutional liability applicable to any person. The plenary meeting will replace Odelstinget as the prosecution authority in national courts. The Control and Constitutional Committee shall replace the Protocol Committee as the preparatory body for the plenary session of the Stortinget. After the order of the day, the Court of First Instance consists of five judges from the Supreme Court and ten members from the Laging Court. The proposal implies that five judges of the Supreme Court continue to be members of the Court of Justice, but the members of the Supreme Court are replaced by a national court committee – six judges elected by the Grand Duchy for a period of six years. Meeting stockbrokers shall no longer be allowed to be members of the Riksrecht. I do not find it difficult to agree with the representative Hansen of the Workers' Party, who pointed out that it also had to include representatives of the two sides of industry for Stortinget. The Christian People's Party has concluded that pro and versus in this case speaks for the time has now come to make changes to the national law system. But we also think it has been necessary to have the ripening time that has been. The present proposal will ensure an independent and impartial trial. A change in such a dimension is also important, with broad support in the Grand Duchy, and it will now have the new national legal system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e346	In 1841 all the following were verified: «that the participation of the Law in the Court of Justice, in which it constitutes the majority, raises more concerns. The origin of the same root as Odelshinget and actually a coherent Hero with this, separated only in certain functions from there by what kind of unpredictable voting, in which all members of the whole Greatthing participate, Lagthing has the same interests as Odelshinget and, under moving circumstances, is influenced by the same human weaknesses." So this was all underlined in 1841. It is now a joint committee which advocates the draft Constitution in Document No. 12:1 for 2003-2004, a proposal based in its entirety on Document No. 19 for 2003-2004, Report to the Presidency of the Grand Duchy from the sample to explore alternatives to the national legal system. There is a proposal that involves the following changes: the Riksrecht is still to be a special court for members of the Council of State, the Supreme Court and the Stortinget. It is clarified in the Constitution and the Law on Penalties for acts charged by the Riksrecht, that constitutional responsibility is limited to offences against constitutional duties. At the same time, national law is extended to cover compensation cases. The government's obligation to inform the Storting and the obligation to seek rejection of a motion of censure, the cornerstones of parliamentaryism, are also enshrined in the Constitution. The size of the plenary room replaces Odelstinget as the prosecution authority in national courts. The Control and Constitutional Committee shall replace the Protocol Committee as a preparatory body. The size may decide, with the agreement of one third of the representatives, that a new, independent special body, known as the Board of Directors, shall initiate investigations with a view to determining whether there are grounds for exercising constitutional responsibility against anyone. Private actions on national law are also banned in the Control and Constitutional Committee. The Court of First Instance shall consist of eleven members, five judges from the Court of First Instance and six members from the Grand Duchy for a period of six years. The essence of the matter here and now is that laymen are no longer to sit as judges in the Court of Justice. In other words, we are talking about a less politicized system of national law, cf. also the references of 1841. Similar reforms towards a more impartial system of national law were introduced in Denmark in 1953 and in Sweden in the 1970s. The centre party shall present this proposal. We are not co-sponsors. We were not represented in the Control and Constitutional Committee in the previous period. But we think it's three core arguments. Firstly, the proposal codifies constitutional parliamentary practice in the Constitution. This applies both to the government's obligation to provide information to the national Parliament and to the obligation to resign following a motion of censure. Secondly, as a result, constitutional obligations are also entered into the Constitution. There are violations of those that can lead to national law, and it must be an advantage that the basis for national law is further clarified in the very context. Thirdly, a national law must be designed in a way that guarantees both independence and impartiality of justice, cf. in particular Norway's obligations in relation to the European Declaration of Human Rights. This applies, at any rate, to the legal security of state councils, to Supreme Court judges, and to magistrates. It has not been given that a national court with a majority of Lamentations judges meets this requirement, in practice, or if the institution itself were to be judged by the European Court of Human Rights. Judgments and prosecution powers may too much reflect each other to the effect that this can be ignored as a challenge. There is time for a reform that clarifies responsibility and leads to an organisation that improves legal certainty both for the state and for some of those in need.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e368	There are a number of issues discussed in this debate, as the rapporteur has explained, and they are linked. In one way, of course, the reorganization and incorporation of parliamentarianism into the Constitution is very interrelated, because the Riksrecht in its historic task was the means by which the Storing had to exercise control and use its power over the Government. Then we know the whole political history, how often the Riksrecht has been used, and we know that parliamentaryism was de facto written into the national court in 1884, but that it actually first entered the Union resolution in 1905. By entering into the Basic Law with all the relevant provisions – both on parliamentaryism as a principle and the obligation to provide information – the Constitution has been modernised, according to the practice in Norway, in this area as well. In fact, what has been political practice has been written into the Constitution. So for this reason alone, this would have had to have an effect on the Riksrecht. The other aspect of the Riksrecht is in the context in which it is to be used, as the rapporteur has explained. No one is above the law, no one is beyond the law. In the view of the Left, it is reasonable to have a system in place to discharge the constitutional responsibilities of the groups set up by the rapporteur. On that basis, the Left supports the amendments submitted both in this case and in a later case today – the two cases where there is a roll call for constitutional changes. If I'm going to do some reflections about this, it might be about what's traveled in connection with the Constitution. It's gradually changed a lot. Two thirds of it has been modified since 1814. I would say that there may be other areas where one should look at the Constitution, for example. in the relationship between the individual and society. We also know that the government is preparing a work that goes on privacy. It's an area related to the individual and society, but that question will be an opportunity to come back to other contexts than today. Today, on behalf of the Left, I will be very careful to agree with the assessments made by the rapporteur in his presentation, and in the presentation he had of the various constitutional changes that exist here today, and that we from the Left will support in the subsequent vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e382	The changes that are now going to be made to the Constitution are of historical format. A little bit to what the representative Dørum now had in mind, about the needs that have been highlighted in connection with the renewal of the Constitution, I must say that to what can be described as the nerve of our democratic system, and the need to clarify what this nerve is, both those who have originally worked on this proposal, and those who have dealt with it in the Storting – and also the case rapporteur – have flashed in relation to what should really be done to clarify both what is the nerve of our democratic system, and to make these control mechanisms, which we are really talking about, more useful. Let me make some reflections about it, because in many ways several of these issues are very clearly linked, which the representative Mr Dørum was also talking about – the question of national law and also the question of how the parliamentary system is handled. The origin of the parliamentary system had at least a close link to national law. It is my opinion that when the reality of parliamentaryism emerged, in my opinion already in the 1880s – it actually got full effect quite early, but emerged more and more clearly – we gradually saw, as we can read from history, a need to anchor it clearly in democracy. What is now being done in relation to the constitutionalisation of parliamentary principles is thus useful for two reasons. The first is a democratic consideration. Many supporters of the renewal of the provisions of the Basic Law point out that it must be pedagogically produced, that we must have a certain opportunity to understand how our parliamentary democracy works by also reading constitutional texts. We will not be able to read everything in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution. It would not be appropriate either. History has shown it. But to be as central political and constitutional as parliamentaryism is, it is appropriate. I think it's very wise what Stortinget is going to do today. It has a democratic aspect that you actually have the opportunity to acquire an understanding of how democracy works, but in my opinion you can never ignore the consideration of anchoring what we see as important constitutional values. This concerns both the question of how we should handle the requirement of mistrust and, of course, also the obligation to provide information. Especially with regard to the last, I think that the second consideration behind these changes is very clear, that is to make the legal rules that we have, whether it's in the law of accountability or in the constitution, more useful. The relevance and applicability of the rules is always important – regardless of the level of justice in the country. Now, delimiting the material scope to which the rules are to apply, I think it is certainly important. But the process changes that are being made are certainly important. It makes the responsibility clear, and we should not underestimate the importance of that. I don't think we can measure the excellence of this type of regulation just by how many times the rules are used, or claimed to be used, but so often on how such regulations are actually read. In this way, I believe that what is now being done in relation to the institution of national law, but also particularly in relation to the obligation of information and parliamentary principles in general, has a significant preventative effect, which underlines what the representative Hansen had in his statement – that it gives an extra inspiration to care. It follows responsibility with power, which is clearly underlined in the debate we have, and in the decisions that will be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e395	Looking forward to the upcoming anniversary of the Constitution in 2014, the previous one was asked: What are we going to do with the Constitution? The answer to that should be self-evident. We're going to do what we've always done with the Constitution, that's to change it. In church tradition, there is a formula called «Ecclesia semper reformanda» – the Church must always be reformed. The same applies to the Norwegian Constitution. That's actually what the Storting has been doing all along. There has not been a single four-year period in Stortingen's history where a greater or smaller number of proposals for improvements to the Constitution have not been taken into account. The very few of these proposals have achieved the required two-thirds majority, but today we are in a situation where everything indicates that the proposal will reach – perhaps even unison – agreement. The National Court Institute has been part of the system of the Norwegian Constitution from the beginning of. There have been many discussions in recent years about what is the reason why the National Court Institute has in practice fallen out of use, by 80 years having passed without it being used. Then there's reason to remember that that doesn't mean that the question hasn't been raised in these 80 years. There have been repeated questions about whether a national court action should be taken. It has even occurred in the not very distant past that representatives in this Chamber have almost begged to be referred to as national courts. This means that it is not entirely in the situation that the existing institution has had no significance in its existence. Now, if the Constitution changes at this point today, you will never get a sure answer to the question of the reason why there has not been a national court appeal, is that there was no basis for it, or whether the reason is that the institution itself was perceived as so heavy and so demanding to get started that for that reason you hesitated to do it. You'll never get a sure answer to that. The same could be true. After today's grand meeting, we're going to have a national court institute that takes care of the original intention and at the same time makes the institute much more flexible and easier to use than it has been in the past. I consider that to be a major step forward. The case rapporteur made a broad presentation of the process leading to today's suspension, and only at one point can there be reason to complement that production. It was up to the Frøiland Committee's suspension to be submitted to the Stortinget, that the National Court Institute could simply be abolished without being replaced by any equivalent scheme. In this case, it would have involved a rather radical breach of the Constitutional structure. It would have meant that in the event of a breach by state councils, depositors or Supreme Court judges of their respective responsibilities by virtue of their respective responsibilities, they would have to be prosecuted in the same way as any other criminal offence. I am very pleased that we turned around in time and so that there is a very good reason to maintain a qualitative distinction between general violations of the law of this country, where all citizens are to be treated exactly as well as by the same courts, and the failure of the particular responsibilities arising from the constitution. Let me then comment on a simple matter that the representative Svein Roald Hansen brought up. He pointed to the proposed wording of Section 86, which states: ‘A Member of the Council of State or of the Grand Thing may not be elected a Member of the Court of Justice.’ This should be understood as meaning that the member of the Stortinget in this context also applies to the alternate member of the Stortinget. In fact, I believe that this should have been raised against doubt, because the reason why persons who have high-ranking positions at the time of the appointment of the Riksrecht should not sit as members has the same validity for alternates as for members. It is not pointed out in the vote, but as it is pointed out in the debate, I expect that there will be an understanding of the new constitutional paragraph at this point. Then there has been a clarification and clarification of which offences belong to the national law system. I agree with what has been said in the Committee's position, that the original wording of the Constitution gave too much ground for discretionary considerations far into the grey zone between what is a common offence and what is a breach of constitutional responsibility. With the new constitutional text, this boundary line will be drawn very, very clearly. I think that is also the argument that has sometimes been put forward against the national law system, namely that it is a so-called political court. It will only be possible in the future to assert it in one particular – and I would say correctly – the meaning of the expression political court, namely that it is a court dealing with political crimes in the sense of a breach of constitutional responsibility. In this context, the Riksrecht shall be a political court. It has been claimed in the ongoing debate on a more general constitutional audit that in Norway we suffer from excessive constitutional conservatism. As I pointed out at the outset, I think it is a rather incorrect diagnosis. The size has been busy reforming the Constitution all the time. But it has varied from time to time how extensive changes have actually been made to the necessary majority in this Chamber. The fact that we are changing very important structural elements today shows that it is not only possible, but that it is highly up-to-date policy to change the Constitution. However, what I hope will continue to be a Norwegian tradition is that you do not change the Constitution to change the Constitution, but that the purpose is to make the Constitution more useful in relation to the historical changes. Let me last of all allow me to comment on a thought that the prime minister himself traveled to a modern notary meeting at Eidsvoll last Friday. There was a page comment on the question of the Basic Law language theme. It is obvious that the proposals we are considering today have been redrafted in terms of language, as all the constitutional amendments have so far been formulated. The President suggested the possibility of perhaps abandoning this traditional practice and simply turning to changing the Constitution according to the same linguistic principles that we are changing the law in general, that is, at all times normal literary language. I think it's a thought that deserves to be discussed. It would have one obvious advantage, namely that anyone who then reads the Constitution will be reminded that it is not a one-off product, but that it is a historic process, in which each new generation has contributed to ensuring that the Constitution is at all times a decent framework for Norwegian political life and around the Norwegian state. I think that such a practice, at least from a pedagogical point of view, would be preferable, because it would make it even much easier for the good history teacher to explain to his students that this is the point of the Basic Law, that it reflects the historical development of Norwegian society at all times, and that it represents the continuity of this historical development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e425	It is gratifying that it seems to be able to vote unanimously in favour of the existing Constitutional Laws – we will first know that when voting. But at least all of the party groups have given their support to the proposals, and I think that is a happy and a good end to a debate that has been going on for many years, and which I am pleased that former prime minister Jørgen Kosmo followed up after the examination of the report of the Frøiland Committee at the main hall. Svein Roald Hansen and Inge Wohnning touched on this point as to whether alternates were also subject to the same prohibition as depositors in the Riksrecht. I would like to agree with what they say. It's actually a unanimous committee that says the same thing. But it stands in the position of Odelstinget, in the right place, namely in the law on the procedure of national courts, in which changes are made. For the sake of order, I may be able to inform Stortinget about what is in the setting to be processed by Odelstinget later. It says: ‘The Committee points out that, following the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure, the Riksrecht shall consist of 5 judges from the Supreme Court and 6 members elected by the Stortinget. The Committee emphasises that it will be up to the Stortinget – when it elects members of the Parliamentary Committee – to assess the political weight of the individual membership. Sitting members of the Government or meeting representatives of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg may not, on the proposal for a new composition of the Court of Justice, be elected as members or alternates. Although alternates to the Stortinget are not excluded from being elected – subject to possible standing alternates for state councils and state secretaries – the Committee considers that they should be avoided.’.» So it's a unanimous committee that has included it in its setting. Finally, Mr Inge Wohnung concerned other questions, both about language and about the Constitution. Let me also associate a few considerations with that. I think it makes sense to also discuss such issues in other contexts. In the previous period and in the period before that, well, the then prime minister Jørgen Kosmo and former prime minister Kirsti Kolle Grondahl were in charge of discussing the establishment of a Constitutional Commission. A mandate was also drawn up for a Constitutional Commission, which mainly aimed at proposing amendments to the Constitution so that there was consistency between the map and the terrain, i.e. that the written constitution was correct in relation to what was the constitutional system – a certain modernisation. I think it could still be a reasonable procedure, but not without it having some sort of anchoring in the population, that there is a general desire to do so. This discussion was largely between a few people in this house. I think it should be a much broader debate and discussion to delay the mood if possible. I'll be able to come back to that in other contexts. It is also clear that it can be in place in some areas, such as the representative Dørum. the above, with samples or commissions to see whether there are things that should be included in the Constitution, for example: more about human rights, more about individual rights — and there are other issues that can also be assessed. It really doesn't belong in this debate, I think, but at least I'll mention that here there's probably a little different approaches to this. In terms of language, it's a separate debate. To date, it has been de facto that if you have made a constitutional proposal in a language other than the language, you have not been allowed to submit it. You've been stopped by Stortinget's office, if you did. So in case there must be some kind of treatment in Stortinget if you're going to change the principle with the linguistic, and that's also going to be interesting. I also think it is important to consider whether you should actually change the language throughout the Constitution to a more modern Norwegian – and you can agree on what is modern Norwegian, but at least there you should be able to prepare what a basic law would look like if you used today's spelling. Some linguists might get the job of making a draft, so you had it in the drawer, in case for the future there was someone who wanted to do it. It is possible to prepare different eventualities without having to decide on them at this stage. But these are issues that will certainly be discussed both in the Presidency and in other bodies, including for the future. I would like to thank you for a good debate, and for the fact that all the party groups in the United Kingdom join the proposals now under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e445	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See page 2021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e461	The change we're going to make today is the biggest change in the Constitution in relation to the Storting that's been made since 1814, and therefore it's a pleasure that there's a unanimous attitude we're going to deal with. The change means that, after the next election, we no longer divide the Storting into two departments, an odelsting and a laying, in legal proceedings. A prerequisite for this is the change in the national law system we have just discussed, where there is also a unanimous attitude. During the National Assembly at Eidsvoll 194 years ago, it proposed a one-chamber collapse and a two-chamber system. Prince Christian Frederik adhered to the proposal of Adler and Falsen for a split of the Riksförsammen because he thought it would give greater certainty when dealing with legislative proposals. Legislation would be the most important task of the new Great Britain, in the construction of an independent nation. The proposal meant that as soon as it was opened by the King, the National Assembly would divide into two departments, one laying and one ostrich. The members of the Lagninget were to sit for six years and be elected according to a certain relationship between the founders, while they were to be elected for two years. Lawyers should be at least 30 years old, while the other representatives’ age limit was proposed at 21 years. In addition, lawmakers would have to own plots of land at a value of 10,000 spectral plots or have an annual income of at least 800 spectral plots. According to one of the proposals, it would also have a right to veto Odelstinget. The ideas behind the proposals for a two-way street were among other things: introducing an element of a social conservative brake into the legislation. In particular, the missionary Sibbern was concerned about what later national assemblies could think of. In his diary, he wrote that the Constitutional Committee feared that the number of farmers who later grew up could be so large that they could get the "narrowest" things through in total accumulation. Jacob Aall, who supported the two-part division, defended it with the idea of forming a thing that could, in a sense and intelligence, serve as a regulation for the legislators, who were less trained in the legislative system and government. The Constituent Committee at Eidsvoll joined the idea of a two-part division but weakened the independent position of the Laging which was in the proposal of Adler and Falsen. Nor was it the case that they were supposed to be best placed in Lagtinget. A lot of fear that a division on such a basis would weaken the Odelsting. The proposal on the right of veto for the production was also removed, and the right to submit legislative proposals was added to the members of Odelstinget. There was a strong debate on this bipartition, but the result – by a narrow majority – became the Constitutional Law still in force and will only be amended today with effect from after the 2009 elections, 195 years after it was designed. Those who were behind the proposal for a two-way street were inspired by other institutions when they decided on the two-way way we've been dealing with them since. Christian Magnus Falsen argued in the National Assembly that the idea of a two-part division was taken from the best institutions, the English and the American, and he referred to the theory of «check and balance». The debate on the division of two and the relationship between the two departments was not over with the decision at Eidsvoll. In particular, the debate was high on the possibility for laymen to make legislative proposals. There was a demand from the Lamentations' members to have the right to a meeting in Odelstinget when the draft laws they strongly backed, but which had been promoted by members of the Odelstinget, were discussed. This conflict ended with what has been the practice to date, that the right of proposal is reserved to the members of the Odelstinget. The main reason behind a two-way sharing of the Storting in dealing with legal issues has been to have a ‘check and balance’ – a thought break and a new look at the law. Since our two chambers are elected in the same election and will have essentially the same political balance, the idea of building up a kind of social conservative brake has not been particularly relevant, at least not after the formation of the political parties and the introduction of parliamentaryism. This is also one of the arguments put forward by the proposers in Document No. 12:14 for 2003-2004. The Committee points out in its recommendation that several democratic countries have a two-chamber system for the treatment of, inter alia: Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, However, in other countries, the two departments are elected by different elections and therefore have different political compositions and different majority positions. With us, it's the other way around. Nor does the legislation have its own preparatory committees. This situation makes it unlikely that the Placing will have any significant new input into the legal process, compared to what has already been achieved through treatment in the relevant specialist committee and in the Odelstinget. As at least current members and former Lamentations members are aware, the practice of recent years has evolved in such a way that the Lamentations' treatment of legislative proposals appears more formal than real. After a vote in the last period, when the majority by an incurrency became different in Lagting than in Odelstinget, for sure, no one has stopped voting. A two-chamber treatment of laws shall ensure the quality of legislation. This is an important consideration, but it can be achieved – as other parliaments do without two chambers – by examining legislative proposals twice in aggregate, as the draft constitution implies. It is in line with practices such as: Sweden, where there are two «readings» of legislative proposals, and in Denmark, where there are three «readings». The main objection to today's division of the Storting is that of debating several of the first majorities after 1814, namely that the laymen are cut off from proposing laws in their own name and from participating in the debate in Odelstinget. This has intensified as the treatment in the Layer has become more ritual. Today, in practice, the members of the Lagninget are completely cut off from participating in debates here in the House of Laws. The division also creates problems for committee members who are also a member of the Lactation. It is difficult for them to be the case rapporteur in legal matters. Both are particularly problematic for parties which have only one member in several or in all the committees. An overall committee suggests that the Constitution should be amended to remove the division of the Storting into a nodule and a laying down in the handling of legal cases, and that legislative proposals should instead be dealt with twice by the Stortinge in plenary session, with at least three days between each treatment. The Committee takes the view that the first reading of legislation on aggregate aggregates is to be carried out as at the time of the Odelsting. Furthermore, the Committee considers that the second reading of the plenary session of the Stortinge should be within the same content framework as that formally applicable to current proceedings at Laginge. The Committee gave its opinion on the draft agenda for the review of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting as necessary following today's decision. Everything indicates that the change will be adopted. I therefore do not go into this here, but I hesitate to refer to the unanimous setting. The change in the organisation of the Stortinget also changes the tasks of the Presidency. The Constitutional proposal sets out several options for the composition of the Presidency in a magnificence that is not divided into two sections. The Committee agrees that it is important that the Presidency of the Grand Duchy reflects the political dimension of the composition of the Grand Duchy. This suggests that the Presidency should continue to be composed of six members. The Committee would therefore propose option 4. This proposal also involves the choice of two secretaries, as is the current practice. Provisions concerning the ranking of Vice-Presidents and the tasks of the Vice-Presidents must be incorporated into the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy. We assume that the Presidency will undertake the necessary work to incorporate into the Grand Duchy's Rules of Procedure the decision that will be taken today. Let me stress that, in this context, procedures should also be developed to strengthen the quality assurance that legislative proposals are subject to two treatments in total. The decision we are about to take today also involves the end of the dilemma faced by many members of the first big business, namely that the division made a distinction between the representatives of the business. Some saw this distinction as important and necessary for the proper handling of legal acts. Some people wanted some kind of overcrowded of particularly skilled -- as a protection against the "narrowest" things. Some of those who wanted this distinction discovered the disadvantages when they themselves were placed in the Creation, namely that they were cut off from being able to participate in the legislative work in line with the others. As soon as the next enlargement takes place, all representatives of the matter will be able to participate in the same legal process. At the same time, we must take seriously the control function to be carried out in a two-chamber procedure. And we need to implement mechanisms that enable us to make a quality check during the second processing of new laws. With this I would recommend the unanimous vote of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e524	Removing Storting's what we might well call an artificial division into laying and oodelsting is a natural consequence of the reorganisation of the National Court Institute. I agree with this change – which will take effect after the 2009 elections – for several reasons. Firstly, it has been unreasonable that a quarter of the members of the Grand Duchy have actually been excluded – I would call it – from participating in debates here in the House on new laws. In fact, it may have once a year. years have been a real debate in the Creation of a Law. Very rarely, there have been debates there – and only a few large ones. We have also seen many examples of the fact that representatives who are rapporteurs and who are members of the Lamentations Committee cannot therefore present the matter to Odelstinget – where the real political debate takes place. It has been an unreasonable exclusion from these debates for a quarter of the members of the Great Britain. At the same time, when processing twice in Stortinget’s plenary session ensures safety, what was part of the idea behind this division and twice the treatment by legislation. Following the 2009 elections, there will be modernisation with effects on practical work – and indeed on the practical division of this house. The debates on what to use for after 2009 will be much more lively — and will be significantly more interested — than the debates that have taken place in the laying room for many years. In fact, I look forward to the many good ideas on how exactly that hall, which is very close to the hiking hall, should be used for something that has to do with this house. I myself am not a stranger to the fact that it can be used in the media, that we can get a little more style over some interviews and questions from the media after debates in this room, as per. Today there is no very nice appearance, among other things. after spontaneous questioning hours, out in the hiking hall. Maybe there'll be a little bit more valuable shapes, by re-remembering the hall and using it for this. Otherwise, one could possibly continue with courses and tours and not touch it at all for conservation reasons. It'll be an interesting debate. So we in our group support the proposals to make the necessary changes so that sitting presidents and vice-presidents and vice-presidents become the last ones, and so they go into history as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e544	First of all, I would like to join the rapporteur's statement, which I think was interesting historical. SV fully shares the points made by the rapporteur. I also think that the representative Hagen had a good job. SV is not ready to conclude on how to use the laying room. There we have to have another process. Otherwise, I can join what Hagen said. I would like to explain why SV is happy that a unanimous increase now chooses to cancel the division of the Storting into a stockpiling and a laying. I just want to elaborate a little bit on what the two previous speakers said. One is that there is a difficult situation for small batches – SV counts as a relatively small batch – to have people in the Lagting, which prevents them from participating in important debates on legal issues. We're actually experiencing it as a real problem, both when we're going to put together Odelstinget and Lamentationet after a choice, and in the daily work in Stortinget. We have to include people who are not familiar with the matter, in order to make contributions on behalf of the case rapporteur in specific legal cases. It is therefore much easier for representatives and for the party groups – especially for the small ones – to make this work after 2009. The second reason is that the quality assurance provided by the Creation is easy to provide through a two-round scheme in Stortinget – because that is what the Creation has been used for. It hasn't been the great political battles in the Lamentations, as far as I've got, in the last few years. So finally this with the composition of the Presidency. We're glad you're betting on having a broad presidency, i.e. six members. Today, five of the seven parties on the Stortinget are members of the Presidency. The fact that you have such a broad participation from the Storing in the Presidency makes it possible for the small parties to participate as well. I think it's important that we have a broad, complex presidency that can mirror the Storting as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e557	This must be said to be a brand day for all those who are interested in historic milestones. It may well be said that every day of the Grand Duchy's meeting creates history, but it's a special historical suspense of decisions that change the constitutional rules. Then it's really NORGESHISTORY -- in capital letters. The system of disaggregation into an odelsting and a laying in the Norwegian Storing was already established in the Basic Law, as mentioned, and was adopted at Eidsvoll in May 1814. So the system has a solid foothold, and it can be said that it's no joke to end a tradition that's been around 200 years. Originally, there were some of the owners who wanted the Creation to be a kind of upper house – where the members were elected by their own choice, and where a more limited circle of persons was electable. But it didn't. Already in the May Basic Act, the tasks and composition of the Creation were determined as we know it today, and where the two departments are designated by the same choice. In most other countries with two-chamber arrangements, this is completely different. In a sense, one might say that the Norwegian two-chamber system is a disguised one-chamber system. Legal proposals are dealt with correctly first in Odelstinget and then in Lagtinget before it becomes legal. However, in case of disagreement between the two things, a legal case ends after a second treatment in the Lamentation for treatment in the Stortinge in plenary. Production cannot stop a law completely, simply delay it and, at its height, make its decision difficult. The point was, of course, that a return from Creation could give chosen representatives of things time to think about, because laws that will apply to everyone and for the future are not urgent. They need to mature. So this so-called two-chamber system, just used, could have a function. In national court cases, Odelstinget and Laginget have their own independent roles — Odelstinget as the prosecution authority and laymen as part of the judicial authority. In another case, which has already been dealt with today, changes will be made to the national legal system, so that this function of the Odelstinget and the Lagertinget will lapse. The Christian People's Party has a fundamental conservative position. We have therefore, on previous occasions, refused to change the system of laying and mowing. But after an overall assessment, we have come to the conclusion that the time is now ripe to go to the historic step of changing the Constitution in this area. The reality is, as it's pointed out, that Creation today really has a very small function, and that it's been like this for quite a long time. In addition, the legal and, where appropriate, national legal proceedings may be carried out in full by other means. One of the positive features of today’s system is that it allows correction of errors and deficiencies that are noticed in the time between the handling of legal cases and the laying of legislation. It's a safety valve. But this can also be done in a purely one-chamber system, for example. by introducing a system of two or more ‘readings’, as we find it in countries such as Sweden, Denmark, Iceland, Estonia and Latvia. The main features of such a scheme should remain in the text of the Constitution. In recent years, drug treatment has become more and more a mere formality. It is very rare that treatment for laying changes the reality of a legal case. Debate and voting are taking place in Odelstinget, and it is now not common for a different proposal to be promoted to vote in Lagtinget. Members of the Lamentations Committee are excluded, as has been pointed out, both from being the case rapporteur for legal proceedings and from participating in debates on legal proceedings. This implies that, in reality, a quarter of the members of the Storting are not actively involved in dealing with a legal case. The fact that there are errors in Odelstinget and that the legal text has been incorrect and must be created and the like will be safeguarded by two legal proceedings in Stortinget with three days between each treatment. It is also suggested that the treatment of legal cases should be approximated as at present, only that the treatment should take place in aggregate. There may also be a third overall treatment if there is a remark that the bill is not accepted at second reading in the Grand Duchy. Request decisions promoted in connection with legal proceedings will be brought up to be dealt with as own cases, as is currently the case. Termination of the two-chamber system will also mean changes in the Presidency of the Grand Duchy. The Christian People's Party believes that there should still be six members of the Presidency of the Grand Duchy. It is important that the composition of the Presidency reflects the breadth of parties in the Grand Duchy, so that smaller and medium-sized parties too can be represented in the Presidency. A change of our constitution like this, which will bring an end to a nearly 200-year-old system, naturally sets some strings in motion in us. Nevertheless, we note that the time has come to modernise both the Grand Duchy's legislative process and our national law system. There's no way back. So the comfort for us who are now participating – if there is any consolation – is that we are at least involved in writing Norway's history. With regard to the discussion on the use of the laying room, this is a little ahead of time. We're still going to be there for more than two years. So we'll have to take that discussion on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e587	On 15 January 1932, the Stortinget made the following unanimous decisions: ‘The Government is requested to examine the issue of law handling in the Storting, including the repeal of the Storing Departments and to present the result with any proposals to the Storting as soon as possible.’ [[Odeltinget og Lagtinget]] This decision was not followed up until today. The Storting has also dealt with similar constitutional proposals to what we now have to deal with, in 1932, in 1937, in 1951, and in 1954. As a rule, the proposal to lift the two-chamber system was made in the form of proposals to amend the national court institute. I have to admit from the Centre Party that there were enough people who thought this proposal had been presented by representatives of the Labour Party and the SV and who are thus called Document No. 12:14 for 2003-2004, was probably tense. On closer reflection, a consensual group quickly found out that this was a very good reason for going in. The main point of the proposers is that our two-chamber system is more formal than real. In other typically federal countries with a two-chamber system, there are often different political compositions in the two chambers. This may be due to a number of factors, such as: different electoral arrangements, direct or indirect choices, different lengths of the electoral period, up to and including different representative functions, cf. e.g. Great Britain and the United States. In Norway, the members of these two departments are pointed out by the same choice, and in human memory, the Storting has been divided in such a way that the relationship between the parties is the same in both sections. It is also that in our group leadership we have had the same challenges for each new choice: who should be in the Creation, and who should be in the Odelstinget? Implicitly, some ‘found themselves in’ need not have the same possibility as others to make legislative proposals or to take part in the real legislative debate that takes place in Odelstinget. We now think that it is wise historical, but also forward-looking, that a unanimous decision is being taken today. I guess we could say it's in line with Danish solution, cf. the constitutional audit in Denmark in 1953 — identical legislative decisions to be taken twice in Stortinget, the case will be stopped if the proposal is rejected at first reading. In order for this requirement to be met, it is necessary to deal with a third case if the first decision is not accepted in full at first reading. More specifically, I refer to what is stated both in the article of the case manager and in the setting. The one reason for having this two-chamber system has already fallen away, namely that Odelstinget is the prosecution board in state cases. We explained that in the previous case. So it's the second foundation, the law, that's going to be changed with this thing. From the centre party's side, I would say that this proposal was a very exciting initiative. This means a reasonable modernisation of Stortinget's treatment of legislative proposals in the pact with the constitutional developments that are both in Sweden and in Denmark. We are also satisfied with the compact unity that it seems to be when it relates to the number of members of the Presidency, six members – and two secretaries – as today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e607	The left will vote for the constitutional amendments. I'll make a few brief comments to them. It is true, as many have pointed out, that Norway has had a different type of two-chamber system than other countries, such as Norway. in the North. Countries like Denmark and Sweden, which have had a real two-chamber system, have abolished them. The Norwegian system, I think, must be understood in a historical context, by the Constitution of 1814 and the relationship between the legislative and executive powers. In that context, and with the law of the Reich as a political tool and weapon, this had great power in itself. With the implementation of parliamentarianism bit by bit in the period 1884-1905, and fully inscribed in the Constitution today, the foundation of the historical Riksrecht falls away. We get a national law in another version, as described in a previous case today. Then the debate on the Norwegian variant of the two-chamber legislative system becomes the issue. I agree with the representatives who say it's been a while since the two-chamber system has been important, but I myself have been present in this room when it did. It was during the 1977-1981 parliamentary term, in a debate on exceptions to the provisions of the Labour Environment Act on employment and on ideological and life-view institutions, in a cooperative situation between the then Labour Party Government and the Left, not all of which were involved, because there was one majority in the Odelstinget and another majority in the Laginget. It reflected real political differences. So you shouldn't go so far back to see that it has had some practical political significance, and then the matter was resolved along the way. I agree that in the period after that it is difficult to see situations where the two-chamber system has had it. I therefore agree with the case-rapporteur that when you go away from our variant of the two-chamber system and get one chamber to deal with laws, it is very important that you think very carefully through the fact that the legal procedure in two rounds is not only formal, but also real, in the sense that it provides the opportunity for reflection and quality control. It is quite important, and I heard that the rapporteur said it was important to get back to it. It takes the left to account for today's treatment. With these comments, we will vote in favour of the Constitution when it comes to voting on roll call later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e622	An earlier attempt has been made to shut down Odelstinget and Lagninget. You haven't done that, and that's why I'm proud to be the one who reinited that Odelstinget and Lagtinget should now go into history. In other words, the matter is mature. The National Assembly at Eidsvoll was set up with just one chamber. Equivalence and the same rights were a fundamental idea among the mariners in 1814. Of course, there was strong opposition when the Constitutional Committee made its proposal to § 78, the later Constitutional Act § 49, to introduce a two-chamber system. Historically, this provision was also adopted by a very limited majority – 54 against 52 votes. In fact, Norway is the only country in Europe — yes, perhaps worldwide for all I know — that has such a mix of laws. The system that the Storting itself divides into two departments – a few-fourths of the population representatives and a lay-off with a quarter of the population representatives, and where the legislative proposals are introduced in Odelstinget and Laginget in a way that is responsible for control in retrospect – is a strange phenomenon. In practice, however, the scheme has been of little importance. Only exceptionally, legislative proposals have wandered between departments. Bills adopted in Odelstinget have usually been very smoothly won in Lagtinget. As a result, sport has now gone into the process of completing the Lamentations meetings as quickly as possible, and new records are being set, as they are being told. The sharing of the two things has also had a different function, all the time members of the Lamentation have also been members of the Riksrecht. After today's meeting, this task has been lost and the Lamentations' members replaced by members appointed by the Stortinget. The Norwegian scheme cannot be defended on the basis of the most central arguments for two-chamber proceedings. The layering does not contribute to the representation of special interests or to ensuring the specific competence of the legislative processes. Since the Creation does not differ politically from Odelstinget in particular, it takes a great deal to do the Weekend in Lagtinget. All the time since Creation also has no preparatory committees, there is a very limited chance that Creation will have something significant new to administer the legal process. However, with some goodwill, there is an embedded safety mechanism in the two-part treatment. Therefore, when the two-sharing system is repealed, it is important that we look with fresh eyes on how to ensure good quality of the legislative proposals. I think it is a democratic problem that 42 of the 169 members of Stortinget are excluded from active legal proceedings. The system of sharing and laying has led to certain disadvantages in the continuous work of the Storting. For example, as mentioned earlier, members of the Committee who are at the same time in Lamentation have not been able to follow up the case-speaker's responsibility in the substantive legal proceedings that have actually taken place in Odelstinget. It's going to end now. From the next period, all cases shall be dealt with in the Storting and all representatives shall be given the same opportunity to participate. Just a little comment to the representative Hagen's interest in the use of the laying room in the future: I, for my part, think there might be a lot of creative input, but I don't think there's going to be a smoking room, nor a pub, if that's what Hagen thought. It's a historic decision we're going to make today, I'm very happy, and I'm very proud to be the initiator of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e645	There have been repeated use of the adjective ‘historic’ today, and that is understandable. This matter also implies that this meeting has the character of a commemorative meeting. I'm not going to polemise against Odelstinget's president from this pulpit, but I think a memorial meeting might not have to contain too many cheerful entries, and I'd like to make it clear that there has not been any sport at all to wind up the Lags' meetings in the shortest possible time. What has actually happened over time is that practice has changed without changing the system. Originally, there was full legal treatment in both chambers. That was the point of instituting it the way the Constitution did. Then the debate took place both places, and no fear that one would be a reprisal of the other. What has gradually changed practice, of course, is that the more political party groupings played a leading role in the treatment of the Storting, and the party composition was largely the same proportional in both chambers, it was found that it was little practical to run full debate both places. But there's nothing in today's system that prevents you from doing it. It is simply practical reasons of convenience that have led to a sort of tacit agreement between the parties in Stortinget that the debate on legislative proposals is normally held in Odelstinget and not in Lagtinget. But then to what is the reality of the matter: when the national law system is reconstructed so that it does not depend on any kind of bipartite division in the Storting, the very main reason for the need to maintain a shared system is gone. There is one reason for this: quality control and quality assurance in the legislative process. I fully agree with what is said in the committee setting that this quality assurance can be achieved just as well by dealing with legislative proposals several times in plenary. So, with the amendment made to the national law system, there are no longer any serious reasons for maintaining the two-part division. Then it makes sense to drop it. It also has the practical advantages, as several have pointed out, that all the elected representatives will then be able to participate fully in the debate on all kinds of issues dealt with by the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e654	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2023]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e670	Respect for life and human dignity are fundamental values in our society. It is reflected in the provisions of the Constitution. In addition, Norway has joined the World Declaration on Human Rights, which establishes the right to law, freedom and personal security. Furthermore, the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child are incorporated into the Human Rights Act of 21 May 1999. In recent years, several teams have been called upon to grant human rights a wider place in the Norwegian Constitution. There are many reasons for strengthening the Constitution in this area. However, it requires a broad approach and thorough processing. As I see it, the present draft constitution does not satisfy the requirements that should be imposed if the human rights issue is to be given a broader and stronger anchor in our constitution. I have noticed that the reason for the present proposal is to stress that the fundamental respect for life and human dignity is still to characterize our society. This consideration is widely agreed on, and that is, as I see it, taken care of in today's legislation. Moreover, one of the points raised in the proposal raises difficult questions. It concerns the definition of the right to life and the physical integrity from conception to natural death. This goes right into the abortion debate, into the debate on foetal diagnostics and bio- and genetic research, and into legislation where there are other definitions of when an individual is granted legal rights. That means that by adopting the present proposal we would then have doubts about the provisions of other laws. Consequently, the Labour Party does not support the present proposal, but is open to a debate on how to guarantee human rights a more prominent place in our constitution than they have today. With these comments, the Labour Party recommends not to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e687	The representative Berit Brørby then explained his party's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e690	Only a few brief comments from my page. As you can see from the setting, the Progress Party is its members in the Committee as well as in the plural setting. It is clear that the fundamental respect for life and human dignity is indebted and will apply to everyone in Norwegian society. The need to ensure the right to life seems to us to be sufficiently taken care of in the current law. In the Progress Party, each representative is free to answer these questions and can vote for his own over-intelligence – this is only because he has made it clear when voting later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e701	This draft constitution deals with the most central of human rights, namely respect for life and human dignity. The starting point of the proposal, stressing that fundamental respect for life and human dignity is still to characterize our society, has the wholehearted support of the Right. This should therefore not be a debate for or against the protection of everyone’s ‘right to life and physical integrity’ – in order to quote the proposal – but rather a debate on whether or not this requires further fundamental legislation, as proposed by the proposers. I point out that through international conventions on human rights, we have adopted such strong wording and proposals. At my discretion, the right to life is not only the most elementary right of a human being; it is also a right that is so obvious and, of course, it is superfluous to cover it further through additions to the state constitution, as proposed. In the case of physical integrity, this must be understood as the individual’s right to protection against infringement or assault on his or her body. Nor is it difficult here to agree with the intention of the proposers of the proposal, at least as I interpret the intention. However, this is a matter which is already well covered by our legislation, not least by the Constitution § 110c. The proposers justify the proposal in a way that makes it difficult for a debate that does not interfere with the cards by including themes such as death aid and abortion. As I see it, our abortion law is not contrary to the present constitution. That is not why I believe that the proposal should not be accepted. If the real intention of the proposers is to amend legislation in such cases, it is rather to recommend using the possibility of promoting private legislative proposals in Stortinget. On this basis, I recommend that the representatives of the Right should vote against the draft Constitution, in line with the committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e712	Then we have also received a explanation of vote from the Per-Christian Foss representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e715	The struggle to legislate the right to life belongs to the core issues of the Christian People's Party. On several occasions, we have put forward proposals for a separate constitutional provision which establishes the inviolability of human dignity and the right to life and physical integrity of all people. The right to life and human dignity is the fundamental principle of our cultural heritage. As a natural consequence, it should also have been laid down in our constitution, not least this should be natural in a time when we feel that human life is more vulnerable than ever. For approx. 1 000 years ago, Christian law was introduced in Norway. It paved the way for a new view of humanity, and with that there was a marked upgrade of human dignity. Over time, this view of man was further developed – we might say quality assured and updated – in response to new challenges. A process is still in progress. This understanding of what a human life is, suggests that everyone has the same inviolable value regardless of integrity, gender, faith, age, civil status and ethnic origin. These values are also key elements of the World Declaration on Human Rights of 1948 and other international conventions, but so far, in 2007, there has not been an atmosphere here in the United Kingdom to subdue them to the Norwegian Constitution. In 1994, the Stortinget correctly adopted a new paragraph 110c, which has already been referred to in the debate, which says: "It is for the authorities of the State to respect and safeguard human rights." That's the closest thing you get. The Christian People's Party and the undersigned do not doubt that the right to life and physical integrity has a great deal of upsurge in the Norwegian people and likewise in this House – also confirmed by case-rapporteur Berit Brørby. Yes, if we asked, we would probably confirm that everyone considers the right to security of life and body as fundamental. No one will protest against such a thought. No, rather, the danger is that we take these values as a matter of course. But in this area we know that nothing is of course. If we look around, we have to admit that human life is more threatened than ever. The use of violence is increasing both in our society and in other societies, and the fear of terrorism is spreading. We are witnesses to engrossing racism, ethnic conflicts, human trafficking and slavery. We all feel a concern that ideologies that weaken respect for life and human dignity should get married, especially among younger people. In such a situation, there should be no reason to place less emphasis on respect for life and human dignity than before, rather on the contrary. In the previous debate on the same proposal, in 2004, the representative Inge Wohnning stated that the proposal: ‘applies to the most fundamental of all rights. It may even be said that it affects the right that is qualitatively different from all other rights, because it is the prerequisite for all the other rights». Then I owe it to you to note that Inge Wohnung nevertheless found that he did not see fit to enter the Constitution. However, the Christian People's Party believes that more than ever we need a taboo paragraph in our most fundamental laws that promise the right to life high, not because such a paragraph alone might lead to so much concrete in the short term, but because for the future it will be an important reminder for everyone and everyone, and not least the legislators, of the fundamental values on which our society and our law should build. Our society is becoming increasingly complicated. This is not least the case in the field of technology. Researchers are still showing their innovation. This also applies to medical research, and part of this research takes place in border areas between life and death. I will not prejudge the debate on the new Biotechnology Act except note that once again we are in danger of crossing important ethical boundaries. The proposal put forward by the Government is aimed at allowing research, sorting and selection of germinal life. I find it hard to see that this contributes to creating a society where there is room for everyone. Biotechnology gives us opportunities and can do a lot for people. We also need to seize these opportunities, and we need to seize them while taking into account that biotechnology also touches on values that are central to our society: the value of man and a society with room for all. I've taken some time to review the minutes of the big debate on these issues in the Storting 12 years ago. In that debate there were many reflected contributions by representatives from both sides, both those who were in favour, and those who were opposed to the inclusion of a separate paragraph on the protection of the right to life and human dignity. In the subsequent vote, as we know, a large majority voted against inclusion in the Constitution. A clear common denominator for those who concluded by voting against was that such a new provision on the right to life would be rocked by the existing law on abortion. Several debaters pointed out that as long as there was a clear majority for the abortion law, it would be unfortunate to adopt something that could be used against it. In other words, if the proposal were to be adopted, it would be ‘in the situation that a law which has clear support in the Norwegian economy would be unconstitutional’, to quote the then rapporteur on the matter, Jan P. Syse. If I am not very wrong, the situation today is quite the same as that we experienced 12 years ago, and as the one we experienced so far was the last issue here in the house in 2004. It is a very pity that a current law that applies to only one area, namely the law on abortion, should stand in the way of the introduction of a general constitutional rule that establishes the inviolability of human dignity and the right to life as a general vision for all areas of law where this could be applied today. As is well known, there have also been very divided views as to whether a constitutional clause proposed would lead to the amendment of the abortion law. Even prominent lawyers have argued that this would not be necessary. Nevertheless, this clearly tells us that the ‘timing’ of history – if we can say so – has had meaning for which stackstones have later remained standing. So it might be close to asking the question: what if that view of our abortion law represented had shaped the understanding of this question in the Western world anno 1948? Would the right to life at all have any place in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights? I want to finish where I started, saying that for the Christian People's Party, the struggle for the fundamental law of the right to life is a core question. We are fully aware that we do not get consent this time either. We'll have to live with that. But we will hope that there will also be politicians in future periods that, despite the lack of support, will raise the tab of the most fundamental of all values, namely the right to life and human dignity. Nevertheless, it is important that future actors in political life are also confronted with these issues and have to address them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e762	The Christian People's Party today invites to debate on respect for life and human dignity. The basis for the draft constitution that has now been put forward for each period of time is that such a decision will underline that a fundamental respect for life and human dignity is still to characterize our society. As you can see from the setting, all other parts are just saying: ‘It is therefore clear, in the majority’s view, that a fundamental respect for life and human dignity applies and shall apply to Norwegian society and that the need to ensure the right to life is adequately safeguarded in the law in force.’ What's the question here is whether the right to life is sufficiently taken care of in the current law. I think it is important to remember what is also happening in the plural setting, namely that values such as respect for life and human dignity have got their design in Norwegian legislation within the framework of the Constitution we have today. Norway has joined the World Declaration on Human Rights, where the right to life, freedom and personal security are poor. In addition, The European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, incorporated into the Human Rights Act of 21 May 1999. The decision on the right to life is taken into both of these conventions. So the question is, what will be the difference between a tab paragraph – as expressed here – and the current law, as it is now defined? I've come to realize that the practical difference will be very small. This is because there are already some paragraphs in the Constitution that have a symbolic value. But listen: those who want to work for human rights and for human dignity must take on board – all of us who want to, must take this into account – that what it is primarily about is being vigilant every single day in matters that are taken up here, and in things else in society. It's quite right, as it's already claimed here from the Christian People's Party, that it's important to be careful in matters relating to the beginning of life, and in matters relating to the end of life, and in matters relating to borders and possibilities in relation to new technology. In fact, it's also that I think everyone can recognize that we have omissions that we have to take responsibility for, for example. when it is necessary to provide for a more dignified care and to meet with respect and dignity. The individual should experience this, whether he or she is demented and at a hospital, or be treated in a hospital. Actually, I don't think it's possible to say that basic law on the right to life is what's deciding whether or not we're creating a society with space for everyone. It's not like this, either for the Center Party, for the Christian People's Party, or for the other party, that we can say that we have been careful enough to this day when it comes to facilitating a society with room for everyone. Why, then, are there parents with disabled children who every day have to fight for a better everyday life for their own child, and who actually feel that it is not because society says that either one of these gets a better everyday life? It's like this in some cases, but unfortunately not in all. In fact, a lot of these families experience that every day they have to fight because society doesn't. My conclusion in this matter has become that it is important to take a debate on human rights, on human dignity and on respect for life. It is also important to take such a debate in relation to concrete issues in this process. And then it's important to remind each other that it's not basic law or not deciding whether our society gets better in this field. That's the commitment that we always have to have. So now, in this setting, a total accumulation again underlines that a fundamental respect for life and human dignity is – and will be – a debt for the Norwegian community. The vote will also take place on the proposal put forward by the Central Party. Here our representatives will vote differently. Some are going to support the Christian People's Party's proposal, and some are going to support the plural.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e784	As one of the proposers of the constitution proposal, I have some questions as to why the Christian People's Party is once again promoting a proposal that has been voted down in the past. There are several reasons for this, but the very main reason I think is good by quoting what Mr. Inge Wohnning said when we last had this topic for consideration: ‘I consider it important because this proposal affects the most fundamental of all rights. One might even say that it affects the right that qualitatively differs from all other rights, because it is the prerequisite for all the other rights. If a human being is deprived of the right to life, there are no other rights that are left behind or that are at all relevant. As you can see, there is no doubt that this is about the qualitatively most fundamental value base for a society. ‘... I also believe that it is important that every great crowd has their own debate on this important issue. We are constantly getting new knowledge of what a damp egg is for, even before it is inserted into the womb. Who will then decide who will have the right to life? An aggregate increase has decided that we want a society with room for all, but new medical methods and techniques can open up for one to choose from the functional and utility point of view. Then you can't claim that everyone has the right to life. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to clarify that everyone has equal value, regardless of its integrity and what it can accomplish. A human being has value based on his self-esteem: that it is a human being. I believe that most people want the right to life to govern our society and agree with the Christian People's Party that respect for human life and human dignity is absolutely fundamental to our culture and values. That is exactly why I think it is so inconsistent that someone does not want to base it. It is true that Norway has joined the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which establishes the right to life, freedom and personal security. In addition, we have joined the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which includes the right to life. We have many formulations in our constitution that represent a double invasion, for example. freedom of expression and religion. Why shouldn't the right to life, which is so general, get its place in the Constitution? I mentioned that the medical development of the beginning of life is in rapid development and leads to several ethical dilemmas. The same could be said about the closing phase of life. Questions about how long to maintain artificial life are asked daily in our hospitals. Marie Aakre, who has worked with dying people and soothing medicine for many years, has said that: We should reintroduce the concept of natural death and death throughout our culture. Modern medical technology and today's denial of suffering and death that natural parts of a human life have led to that we no longer have the ability to see the natural human. These are difficult questions. Health workers say that several elderly sick people feel in the way, and their call for help may be misunderstood. They want pain relief, care, community and proximity in a bad time. I have been on a study trip to the Netherlands to see how active death help was practised. After that trip, I am more convinced than ever that we need life help rather than death help. Today, a supporter can do just that by voting in favour of the proposal on the right to life from conception to natural death.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e813	The American founding fathers of the 1770s talked about what they called unalienable rights - rights that cannot be taken from anyone. By pointing out that there are some basic moral rights, which are not based on majority decisions of 2/3 or a simple majority, either in national parliaments or in any other type of assembly, simply because they are so elementary and fundamental that it is obvious that they cannot be the subject of majority decisions. Now it's in the real world so that nevertheless it's fully possible to violate also such fundamental rights. It happens in the real world every single day, and of course there are also many places in this world in the form of political decisions that have been taken in an unforgivable way under the current formal procedures. So what the founding fathers of the United States said was not to say that it is not possible to violate these rights, because it will be at any time, but what they meant to say was that even if it happens, and even if you were to pass the law that it is legitimate to do so, it is unfair. This points to the core of the problem, namely that there are two legal concepts. It is a legal concept enforced by legislators and courts in each Member State and a more fundamental concept of law. In European tradition, we have often talked about natural law in that context, i.e. the right inherent in the creation itself, which cannot be the subject of negotiation. I am in the situation that I was the last time a similar proposal was discussed, that I am in agreement with the proposers in their intentions and in their description of the problems, but I am unable to follow their conclusion, because I do not believe that the proposed legislation corresponds to its purpose. Now it is interesting to study the wording of the proposal for a new § 95 a, to note that those who argue for the proposal are really only concerned with one sentence in the whole proposal, namely the sentence «Everyone has the right to life and physical integrity from conception to natural death.» The next point, which speaks of the right of citizens to personal freedom and life development within the limits of law and law, I have not heard a single comment on. True, I don't see the relationship between the two terms either. Actually, it should have been a paragraph by itself that does not belong naturally to the paragraph that you argue for, and that is about the right to life and the physical integrity from conception to natural death. The big problem is and becomes the ambiguity that lies in the drift between the moral concept of justice and the legal concept. For this reason, I think that the Per-Kristian Foss representative had a good point when he pointed out that to the extent that what he wants to respond to here is the challenges associated with the legislation on abortion, or, to take the most recent example, the Biotechnology Act, it is well to argue for a ‘basic starting point’, as it states in the preambles: ‘This updates a clear constitutional basis when designing legislation in some new areas’. The problem that then arises is: do you think that this is the clear constitutional basis that will have normative implications for the design of the biotechnology law and the law on abortion? It should then be said in plain language. It should also be possible to say quite clearly what the consequences are, in what sense, it is possible to restrict the freedom of action of the Grand Duchy in the next round of consideration of the proposal for a biotechnology law. Otherwise, this could easily be seen as a detour that really only complicates one from before a difficult debate, complicates it further by inviting a legal debate on the relationship between constitutional text and other legal texts. I believe – in order to take the most recent example, the Biotechnology Act – that it is sufficient to hold a fundamental debate on the law to discuss the relationship between the purpose paragraph of the law that is fundamental to the same issues and the proposed amendments that have been submitted by the Government to the Stortinget. There is, of course, one of the heaviest hearing bodies, the State Health Authority, pointing out that if you want to change the law on the points proposed and as proposed, it should be said that you also change the purpose paragraph, because otherwise there will be a striking contradiction between what the purpose paragraph says is the purpose of the law and the legal text actually instigates as legal practice. So I think it's perfectly possible to conduct all of these fundamental debates in this room without going about formulating a basic law text that actually invites just new interpretation problems. That is why, this time too, I will have to vote against the proposed constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e834	The draft basic law is based on three main elements: human dignity is the right of inviolability to bodily integrity from conception to natural death, and thus also the right to personal freedom and the emancipation of life. The right to life is the most fundamental of all human rights. It is therefore quite natural that this right is determined in the Constitution itself. Respect for life and human dignity, from the beginning of life by conception and right up to a natural death, are values that the Christian People's Party wants to impress our society into the future as well. Our cultural heritage then also assumes that all human beings have the same value, regardless of gender, functionality, age, status, orientation and ethnic background. The majority of the Committee agrees that a fundamental respect for life and human dignity is a debt and is to be owed to Norwegian society. Unfortunately, the majority still believe that this will take good enough care of existing legislation. From the Christian People's Party's side, we would point out that Grundlova has paragraphs on e.g. freedom of expression, the right to work and the protection of the environment. We think this is both right and good. But the right to life stands, seen with our eyes, even further ahead than these other important dishes. The right to life is the most fundamental of all. What would be more natural than this right to be laid down in the Constitution? Developments in medicine are constantly facing new problems and challenges. In particular, this applies in life to its first and final phase. The developments in biotechnology and the debate on active death aid are examples of this. The Christian People's Party does not want a society where people are sorted by functionality or other criteria. By introducing the fundamental law of the right to life, this will be irrefutable. The Christian People's Party will have a society with space for all, and the basis for this is respect for the equal value of all human beings. We have already been reminded today that Norway has joined the World Declaration of Human Rights. There is the right to life, liberty and personal security stuck. The decision on the right to life is also included, as it has already been mentioned, in the European Convention on Human Rights and in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. In view of this, as a nation, we have already joined the principle of the right to life. In view of this, it would be even more strange for me if we could not establish this principle in the Constitution. I have noticed that the case-speaker stresses that she is open to a debate on this – as she defined it – based on a broad approach and a thorough preparation. And if I understood the representative's salary correctly, it is that by a later crossroads and with an even better preparation, he is not in the forefront not only of supporting premises, but also of concluding. There are different views of abortion laws and the principles on which they are based. But I remember that's not the promise we're discussing today. In our draft constitution, it is called, among other things,\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t "Provisions concerning the freedom and justice of citizens and their legal defence shall be given by law." It is such a good idea to support the Constitutional Bill, even if there is a different view of the special legislation – in this case if there is a different view of abortion laws. In the light of the arguments I have now put forward, I really hope that our constitution on the right to life can gather a broad majority in the Stortinget, if not today, so in the near future! I will immediately also address the proposal made by the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e885	The representative of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e888	‘Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security of person,’ states Article 3 of the Human Rights Act of 10 December 1948. The idea of certain universal and inviolable rights gained its national breakthrough with the American Declaration of Independence of 1776. The French Declaration of Revolution came in 1789, and then followed a number of constitutions, including: Norway’s Constitution of 1814. In the post-war period, human rights have been enshrined in international agreements at both global and regional levels. The international agreements are largely inspired by the 1948 UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The right to life is, as has been said by several in the hall, the most fundamental of all human rights. It is also the right to life that is mentioned only when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on its website goes through the central human rights. Respect for human life and human dignity is fundamental also to our own cultural heritage. It's the very bearer of our view of value. Our culture is built on the fact that all people have the same value, regardless of integrity, age, gender, civil status and ethnic origin. This right has marked both legislation and ethical standards in our country. Man is entitled to both human dignity and life, because it is a human being. That's the starting point for our attitude to the trends we're looking at today's beginning sorter society, because it's not obvious that the right to life is governing in society. Medical developments have made it possible to still face new problems, both in the first phase of life and at the end of life. An increasing number of diseases can already be identified at the stage of birth. With increasingly advanced foetal diagnostics, it opens up to sort out children on the basis of gender or disability. Many difficult ethical dilemmas are also raised around the end of life, for example. the duration of a treatment. Without a law that specifically protects life, the danger may be that qualitative assessments of human dignity will be made. It's an evolution that I want to warn against. For me, human dignity is inviolable. Everyone has the same value. Human beings cannot be graduated, because everyone is created differently, and diversity is both a value and a resource for our society. But it's society's responsibility to guarantee the right to life. That is why the draft constitution is also important. Promises create attitudes, and we want to create attitudes that promote respect for life. For me, this Constitutional proposal is not «a detour», as the representative of Wage spoke of, but a headline, a heading in which our intention of a Constitutional Law is to emphasize that fundamental respect for life and human dignity is still to characterize our society. With the position that the right already has today, it should be possible to agree to include the right in the Constitution. The most fundamental of all rights should really also have a natural and self-evident place in the Constitution, as it does in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and in the Declaration of Human Rights. The question we are going to address today in the Storting is: is this going to be a fight where every person is alone, or are we going to take collective responsibility as a society and put the big headline, where we protect life by legislating the right to life in our constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e911	As I see it, it has never before been so crucial and so important to legislate the right to life as it is right now. We are in a time of near-explosive development, where many germinal lives, both in Norway and in the rest of the world, in a short time – and indeed now, at least some places – will be subject to both research and sorting. Let me first point out some developments that suggest that the right to life is a high-current issue, because borders are constantly being moved. Individuals are increasingly choosing to take away a child in their mother's life. If borders are moved all the time, including in our country, there is a danger to human dignity and the right to life is lost. In my opinion, it is. For me, a constitutional proposal would be like a general purpose paragraph. It may prevent further difficult border shifts in the future. Perhaps it will take part in a debate on human dignity and the right to life on the part of the authorities before promoting new, difficult legislative proposals. Some examples: We have had a debate in Norway about extending the law on abortion from 12 to 16 weeks. Fortunately, it didn't get a majority. In Spain, there is an abortion clinic in which fetuses are aborted that are viable. In Sweden, the Social Minister has said these days that he will make a proposal that all women can come to Sweden and make abortions within the 18-week limit, without testing. Perhaps the most topical thing in our country today is the Biotechnology Act, which many have been involved in. It goes, as I see it, on the human world. It also allows many germinal lives not to be given the right to live. I am thinking of the sort that has been proposed from a new method – the preimplantation method – where you will sort out a number of foetuses that are carriers of disease. It will also determine the type of tissue used to make children in order to make the child a donor to the sick sibling. Then you'll go to the step of researching abundantly fertilized eggs. So the boundaries are made all the way. And the limits of how we humans evaluate which lives are worth living are made. This is actually a reality in today's Norway. As I see it, human dignity cannot be graduated – not according to the age of the foetus, not according to the characteristics of the foetus, not according to the disease of the foetus. I talk a lot about the little baby in Mother's life today. I may think that one of the most difficult issues is that there are few who speak the case of the small germinal life in our country – or, for that matter, in many other countries. And who is going to talk about the fetus if we politicians, who are set to administer the law, are going to do that? As I see it, a germinal life is a whole. The little fertilized egg, regardless of whether it's a week, two weeks, 40 weeks or for that part two years or what I'm standing here, has exactly the same biological content. Nothing has been subtracted, nothing needs to be added. That's why I see it so that the right to life must become a reality from conception. At least that's what I and many of the others who have taken the floor here today, trying to talk about the little germinal life thing. And then someone's been inside the other side, the right to live. Even if you are over 80 years of age and may have a heart attack or heart failure, you should also receive a worthy treatment if possible. It is an important debate. I'm proud to be able to stand here today, proud to be a member of a party that repeatedly raises this issue. But I think that our – and also my – party should accept the good invitations that many have made from this pulpit. Maybe you should look at this in a larger width. There may be some disagreement in the wording of the proposal. Perhaps there is also some disagreement in the wording of the decision. It's a shame these reactions came so late, but we're taking it with us, and we're very happy to work with others in this room for the next time we're going to make a new proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e928	First, I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that this debate is being conducted with such seriousness, and that the vote is so marked by respect for the matter that we are dealing with. As human beings, we have a self-value in terms of being human. None of us make us deserve this. It means I'm given us. With my view of man, society and nature, this perspective is absolutely fundamental. Today's constitution then affects the most fundamental right: the right to life. All other rights depend on this one. Maybe it's just this perspective, that we're talking about the most fundamental right, that makes this debate so important, but also so difficult. The representative Foss made his statement on the right to life needs further constitutional support. My answer to his challenge is a sounding yes! We see that human life is being subjected to growing commercial pressure. As legislator, I believe that we cannot leave these market forces as the governing forces in these fundamental areas. The right to life underlines the diversity, the inequality, among us humans. Market forces must not be allowed to exist in relation to setting an ideal image and uniformity. The idea of human dignity and the right to life is the best protection against this. Today's proposal is about the right to life in all phases of life, because it's the same individual that from the conception of growing, developing, being born and eventually dying. In all phases of life, we must be met with respect and dignity, and then we need more goodness and closeness, and less rawness. This is demanding, but life cannot require less of us. The debate has claimed that human rights, human dignity and respect for life should be seen in relation to the specific issues we have to deal with. Yes, it would just be lacking if human dignity, human rights and respect for life were not to be seen and weighed in every specific matter! But with a statutory law in the Constitution, we would also clearly show our view of man. As a politician, I am valuable and not system-oriented. I am therefore concerned that there must be no instrumentalization of man, as I find such a way of thinking problematic in relation to the human dignity itself. With today's raging development in biotechnology, I think it is necessary to discuss, stop and reflect a little on the position of man. As a young politician, I hope that we can not only see the possibilities of biotechnology, but also take over the fragile line between ethics and technology. With a stronger emphasis on the right to life, life itself will be stronger in the face of technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e943	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e959	The capital increase is due today to deal with a constitutional proposal, a new point d, the right to housing, under the Constitutional Act § 110, that the State should have the obligation to ensure that everyone gets an owner-occupied dwelling. At the same time, the individual citizen shall not be able to use such a provision in legal proceedings against the State claiming to have a place of residence. Corresponding constitutional proposals were also considered during the previous enlargement period. The intention of the Constitutional Bill is that the State is obliged by law to pursue a social housing policy, while stressing that housing is a key prerequisite for benefiting from other human rights. I expect the representative of SV to explain the proposal in more detail. The majority of the Committee, all other than the Socialist Left, points out that there is a broad consensus to pursue a housing policy that gives everyone a chance to get their own housing, although there are different views on the type of instruments to be used. The majority point to the right to a fair standard of living, including: the right to a satisfactory place of residence is governed by the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, incorporated in the Norwegian Law on the Strengthening of Human Rights in Norwegian Law. The human rights in general and thus also the right to a fair standard of living have also been granted constitutional protection by the Constitution § 110c. The majority underline the country’s responsibility for maintaining a housing policy that ensures a place for residents in Norway. The municipalities also have a responsibility to get homeless people who are unable to obtain housing themselves, a place to live. That is why I recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e972	Everyone in Norway should have a place to live. It's enough to look outside the lion's tray today: when we see the Norwegian climate, there's an argument in itself that you should have a place to live. But it's also important to have a place where you belong, a place where you have the bed say, a place where you can set off the exercise bag or whatever it is. In the welfare society that Norway has built over many years, housing is, in the SV’s view, absolutely fundamental. This will also be speeded up by some other welfare services if you do not have an owner-occupied dwelling. You could ask, is this a big problem? Is it necessary to promote this as a separate constitutional proposal? In the opinion of SV, it is. That's still approx. 5 000 people in Norway who are not owner-occupied. That means there's a problem that we have to take seriously. Suffering if the numbers have fallen slightly in recent years, there is a very modest reduction. Moreover, we see a trend, especially now, where housing prices are so high that we are creating some social divisions by some actually having problems getting into the housing market, even though they do not have special problems. If you're in a situation where you don't have parents you inherit, or other people you inherit, and you don't have a very good economy, it's actually some people, especially in the big cities, who can risk not being able to get their own housing. They have to find another type of solution for how to live. When we promote this as a constitutional proposal, it is because we believe that the right to housing is equal to, for example, the right to housing. the right to work included in the Constitution. We're sorry we can't get the rest of the Storting on it. We note that the majority of the committee is also concerned that people should have their own housing, and that is what we are pleased about, but we think it should be stated in the Constitution, in order to emphasise the seriousness of the matter, and to give it even higher priority among politicians on the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e981	Perhaps the President will ask the representative to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e984	That's when I'm promoting SV's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e989	Then the representative, Inge Ryan, has put forward the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e992	There is no doubt that everyone has the right to a reasonable standard of living, even in relation to housing. The right of individuals to a fair standard of living, including the right to a suitable dwelling, is enshrined in the UN Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, incorporated into the Human Rights Act. The right to housing is thus already exercised in the Constitution, through the general reference to human rights in Section 110(c). The right considers, in principle, that the inclusion of programme declarations on rights to financial benefits or material goods in the Constitution should be withheld. The rights we already have in the Constitution are essentially provisions that protect individuals from interference by the state. An important exception is the right to work, which was established a few decades ago. This should remain an exception to the Constitutional Law of the Storting. Some of the problem with such rights is that the word itself is becoming more and more contentless. If one grants citizens a right or a right, it must not only be possible to say what the content of the right is. It must also be possible for the legislator to enforce it reasonably and for citizens to pursue the case if the right is not fulfilled. Against this background, I would recommend the Right-wing Group to reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1006	I want to make it clear to the representative Ryan that at least the Christian People's Party is taking all such proposals for amendments or additions, whether in the Constitution or other laws, seriously, so there is no doubt about it. But now there is a broad majority who reject the proposal to include a new provision in the Constitution on the right to housing. Of course, this does not mean that you disagree that everyone should have a place to live, and that the public should help to get housing for those who have problems with it themselves. Here the municipalities and the municipal social service have a very clear responsibility. What we disagree on is whether or not it should be enshrined in the constitution, of course. Although the right to housing is one of several important rights, we find it difficult to see that it is of such an overall nature that it should be incorporated into the Constitution. Caution should be exercised in including programme declarations of different kinds in the Constitution. Policies relating mainly to fundamental rights and values should be reserved. The right to housing is, in the Christian People's Party's opinion, well protected in the law that we otherwise have. In addition, housing policy is an area that most naturally belongs to political priorities in budgetary terms, and through housing policy we must ensure that everyone has the opportunity to live in a place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1017	Only a short comment from the Progress Party page. We're in on the plural comments, as you can see from the setting. We are also sceptical about program formulations in the Constitution and about perhaps establishing the right to economic maintenance. There's a little difference between that and having rights to be a human being in society. Having freedom of expression is a right that makes no one else prevent you from having an opinion. Having freedom of faith is that no one else can prevent you from having a faith and exercising your threat. There's going to be a right other than the right that one should be able to go with the Constitution in hand and demand an economic offer from someone, who would then give you that right. There will be more of a programme, and there will be more of a political debate, which – as it says in the setting – will be taken in conjunction with the annual budgets, if one is to have the possibility of being able to live, as this matter is. We do not disagree that a main political objective for all the political parties is that the country in which we live should not be homeless. It is quite clear that it is a political goal that everyone who lives in Norway should have a roof over their heads and a reasonable standard of living. But we didn't think it necessary to basicize the right to housing. We're more concerned that we're doing some political work, so that there won't be too many people who don't even have to deal with it. Of course, the goal must be everyone's head.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1028	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1044	This is probably the last time we have the government's notice of appointment for treatment here in Stortinget. And to the extent that something is to be characterised as a ‘memorandum meeting’, as the representative of the Wohnung raised in the case of the abolition of waltzing and laying, this is also a memory meeting. But wreathing can also happen with a smile! During the examination of the Annual Report on Appointments for 2005, I had the pleasure of being able to give tribute to the Ministry for having finally received a form of notification that gave the Stortinget the basis for a serious assessment of various aspects of the state's appointments, which were in line with the wishes of the Stortinget. Having assessed the relationship between the work undertaken to obtain the notification and the value of the notification, I and the Committee are convinced that the information needs of the Storting and the public can be met by other means. Treatment in recent years has shown that the public interest in individual cases is minimal. In addition, the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee shall carry out a review of each appointment in relation to the control of the State Council's protocols. All information, including expanded candidate lists, is then available. Any questions could be clarified in this context. On the other hand, the focus of attention on how the composition of the government is developing is an ever-increasing theme. Relationship between women and men, recruitment from different parts of the country, etc. is information that can be useful in many contexts. A unanimous Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs refers to the fact that the statistical information attached today to the Storing Communication can be included in the Ministry of Renewal and Administration's budget proposal and thus come to the knowledge of the Storing. This will be a good solution. This proposition already contains significant statistical material. In line with the comments, the Committee recommends to the Presidency to take the initiative in paragraph 12 of Section 12 of the Storting Rules of Procedure. point 10(a) is amended in such a way as to eliminate the obligation of the Control and Constitutional Committee to deal with the notification. But the disappearance of the message does not mean that everything is as it should be. The proportion of women’s appointments has remained relatively stable, between 26 and 31 pst. in the period 2000–2005, and has increased to 35 pst. in 2006. For the whole period, the proportion of women employed is 29 pst., while 30 pst. by the applicants, women. So it's a long way to go before we can talk about gender balance. And there are still considerable differences between departments. We find the strongest imbalance in the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also other departments should follow developments closely. A unanimous committee requires the Government to follow developments and take action to ensure a better gender balance. With these comments I recommend that St.meld. No 10 for 2006-2007, Embetsländerningen, etc. 1 July 2005 to 30 June 2006, annexed to the Protocol, in substance to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1063	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1079	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1095	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 2026]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1108	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1-8.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1116	There is a unanimous vote, but since we are now going to decide on amendments to the Constitution, the President will propose that it be voted on by roll call. – There have been no objections to this, and this is how it will be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1166	The votes for the setting answer yes, and the votes against the setting answer no. The President will ask the representatives to answer in a loud and clear manner for the purposes of registration, and there should be peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1191	The President noted that there had to be an addition to the motion for a resolution under Roman numeral I. Before the sentence ‘Section 14(b) becomes 14(a), the following sentence is inserted: ‘Section 14(a) is deleted’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1266	There is a unanimous vote, but since we are also here to decide on the amendment to the Constitution, the President will propose that it be voted on by roll call. – No objections have been raised against it, and we are moving forward as proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1339	The President will again request a high response so that the votes can be recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1365	During the debate, Mr Sørfonn put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:11 [[Protection of life]] Alternatively, between this proposal and the Committee's setting up, the President proposes that voting be done in the usual way with voting facilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1391	During the debate, Mr Ryan put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left to approve the draft Constitution. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:18 Constitutional proposal by Ågot Valle and Siri Hall Arnøy on new § 110d of the Constitution [[2003-2004]] [[right of residence]] Alternatively, between this proposal and the Committee's setting up, the President proposes that voting be done in the usual way with voting facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-20.ana.ud365e1562	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
