ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e122	Two permit applications are available: from the representative of Mr Morten Høglund on leave on 29 and 30 March to take part in a meeting of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna from the representative of Mr Olav Gunnar Ballo on maternity leave from 14 April to 27 April On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Tove NyhusFor Finnmark County: Kirsti Saxi
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e152	Tove Nyhus is present and will take the seat. The representative of Inge Wohnning will present a representative proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e157	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative from the local government representatives Erna Solberg, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Børge Brende, Trond Helleland and myself on a stepping-up plan to strengthen the offer of rehabilitation and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e162	The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e165	On behalf of the representatives Bjørg Tørresdal, Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on the further development of ethical guidelines for the State pension fund – abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e170	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e173	I am delighted to make proposals on behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Per-Willy Amundsen, Torbjørn Andersen, Tord Lien and myself to give the municipalities veto right to windmill development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e178	The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e182	It is a pleasure to be able to present a representative proposal from Bjørg Tørresdal, Laila Davøy and myself on municipal self-government when it comes to the placement of vending machines.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e187	The representative, Mr. Tord Lien, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e190	On behalf of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Torbjørn Andersen, Thore A. Nistad and myself, I would like to put forward proposals on the use of a carriage for the carriage of passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e195	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e198	On behalf of the big business representatives Elisabeth Aspaker, Bent Höie and myself, I have the pleasure of making proposals to facilitate an increase in the analytical capacity of DNA, strengthen national competence and improve the resolution of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e203	The representative, Mr Thommesen, will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e206	I would like to be allowed to make proposals first from Elisabeth Aspaker, André Oktay Dahl, Martin Engeset and myself that the Government is carrying out a full review of the Regulation on the rights and use of coercion while staying at Child Welfare Centre. In addition, I would like to make a proposal from Sonja Irene Sjøli, Jan Tore Sanner and myself to grant the right to parental leave independently of the six-month rule in relation to succeeding children, when children are born at short intervals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e213	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e216	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of Arne Sortevik, Karin S. Woldseth, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and myself to make sure that the victims after the bombing of Laksevåg and Holen School get their application for a war pension reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e221	The representative, Gunvald Ludvigsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e224	On behalf of André N. Skkelstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to facilitate the start-up services for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e230	The representative, André N. Skkelstad, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e233	On behalf of Gunvald Ludvigsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal to encourage parents with disabled children to receive a care allowance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e238	The proposals that have been put forward will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e252	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes each. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e265	The setting we treat, deals with St.meld. No 18 on the operation of NSB AS for the period 2007-2009. The purpose of the message is to give the Size header to developments in the previous scheduled period and plans for the next few years. On the basis of this, the ownership management of the company will be designed. The State has several roles in the railway business, as the owner of the NSB, the owner of the infrastructure under the railway works, the purchase of train routes and as the regulator. It's important, and I know that the Ministry of Transport attaches great importance to acting neatly in relation to the different roles. So this is a owner's message, but other aspects, especially the infrastructure, are an important framework for the NSB and are therefore also described to some extent in the setting. There is no single committee behind this whole setting. Central areas of concern are the issue of additional post-competition and state ownership of the NSB. The progress party goes as far as to propose the State hall and listing of NSB and the Netbuss hall. I expect that the opposition party in the debate will keep its comments and suggestions in mind, so I want to do my best for the view of the majority. To achieve the overriding objectives of the national transport plan on road safety, environmental and climate-friendly transport, better regional development, a more efficient transport system and accessibility, we need to have a strong and well-functioning rail system in Norway, including the NSB. The Soria Moria Declaration makes it clear that the NSB should be developed as a state carrier for both passenger, freight and bus services. As a transport group, the NSB has the possibility to exploit synergies between activities. Specially applicable between passenger and bus services. There is a strong, pooling of collective services. The ownership of the State must be long-term and industrial, and there are also expectations that the company will take other care in addition to short-term returns, for example. concerns for the environment, communities, research and development, ethical standards and lack of governance and leadership. Buying transport services makes it possible to maintain train provision where there is no basis for commercial operation. Without such purchase, large parts of the train supply will be cut down and lead to significant increases in road traffic with queue, cork and impure emissions. It was therefore an important investment by the Government when government purchases were extended in the new purchase agreement between the State and the NSB for the period 2007-2010. At the same time, the Ministry of Ownership may manage the group on a more commercial basis and apply generally accepted principles to ownership. It is good to note that the NSB has a good development both in economic terms and in terms of traffic volume. Despite increasing competition, there is an increase in passenger traffic by train of 4.6 pst. during the period 2003-2005. This shows that a good job has been done to reverse a negative development, and it should be appropriate for the NSB. If the objective of increasing the share of public transport in the future is to be achieved, it depends on the continuation of this good development. In order to obtain more goods from road to road, through its subsidiary CargoNet, the NSB must continue its efforts to create an even more attractive alternative to the truck. But I am very aware that this also requires us to build double tracks, crossing tracks and freight terminals on a large scale. After many years of depriving and neglecting the railways, it is therefore extremely important that the government now in the 2007 budget increase the budget by 15.3pst. The increase in investments in the railway line is 50.3 pst. In addition, the electricity charge was removed. We have rightly used the term "historical bet" about this. Now I also see that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the setting refer to what they call a historic bet under the Bondevik government. The only historical feature of this would have to be the launching of rail routes and the maintenance work of the Railway Agency. Yes, the latter resulted in cancellations and the loss of competence at the Railway Agency, which was about to be released, had not a new government stopped it. It is important to ensure good accessibility for disabled people in society in general and for transport equipment in particular. The universal design requirement is therefore one of the concerns of a group of committees in which the NSB has to focus on its activities. The people along the Gjøvik Railway got many more departures last summer, after the Ministry of Transport made new demands. In the months that followed, passenger numbers increased, and in October, 15 p.m. more than one year earlier. This is higher than the overall traffic development in the NSB, as mentioned, which is also good. This happened after an extensive bidding arrangement. This shows that the NSB is able to deal with aggravated requirements and that the company is competitive. If I put on my owner's hat, this is very happy for us as owners. When, in the committee majority, NSB provided material that works optimally under Norwegian conditions both winter and summer, it obviously has a connection with the unfortunate circumstances that were in winter. But the Right Party and the Progress Party, when it comes to regulatory issues, goes high on the Labour Party and the other government parties when they propose: ‘The decision asks the Government to ensure quality assurance that, in the case of the purchase of train equipment, the NSB ensures that the material tackles Norwegian weather conditions.’ We have a very competent government in Norway today, but I doubt whether the government has better competence than the NSB when it comes to train purchase. This must be clearly stated by the State which owns the NSB. When it comes to the Governing Board's objectives and strategies for the coming period, the majority believe that today's group structure contributes to an artificially efficient transport supply and supports the main objective of a most profitable enterprise. It is also appropriate to apply one of the clear requirements of the Ministry of Ownership to ensure that the company has a customer-friendly, punctual and secure transport service. It also requires more and better material. The Governing Board's strategy means an increase of the annual investment of DKK 1 billion. To do this, the NSB has to have good financial capabilities. The majority assume that the Department pursues a long-term and prudent dividend policy, so that NSB AS has the potential for long-term development, planning and operation. Otherwise, I refer to the setting and the notes behind the Workers' Party, SV and the Center's part.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e306	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e309	I registered that the representative Rudihagen believed that the Government has submitted a «historical» budget. I am also aware that the Workers' Party is very concerned about building a new high-speed train in Norway. Now we have the railway we have, where on some distances you're down to 20 kilometers per hour. So I'm a little excited about whether the representative Rudihagen can say how many historic promises he needs to have to meet the challenge of building a high-speed train to NOK 150-200 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e316	It was a historic elevator, because, as I said in my post, the railway has been neglected for very many years. It is a huge lag on both maintenance and infrastructure investment. Now we see that the NSB is fortunately in good development. Here are the major challenges ahead, so I hope that we will get a lot of historical lift. First of all, we have to try to improve the maintenance of the railway. There are major challenges in building multiple double tracks, crossing tracks and freight terminals, just to get capacity in freight traffic. In parallel with that, it's very interesting to look at this with high-speed. But I think a clear commitment to building high-speed paths is that it doesn't go beyond the current infrastructure – the maintenance and development there. Where it goes, we clearly have to be able to combine high-speed paths with current infrastructure, but many places I think one might have to right out and have parallel lines. I'm looking forward to happiness at once in the future, to getting more traffic across the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e325	The representative of Rudihagen mentioned the competitive concession. After all, we put off the Gjøvik track in the last time. According to some labour party politicians, this has been a success. Does the representative Rudihagen agree? And in that case, will he extend that arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e332	As I said, when NSB Offer won this competition, it shows that the NSB has a potential for efficiency improvement and even better operation in the future. There is a requirement that the ministry must make to the NSB when they buy routes. But it is not necessary to go the way of putting up competition in order to do so. On the contrary, I actually believe that it will help weaken our train supply. If we're going to split up the paths that NSB now has, we're going to split up the NSB, the professional community and the competence that we have on railway operations and rolling stock. That being said, I must also say that the railway line is largely open to competition. We actually have eleven different traffic companies operating on the Norwegian track. Much more is not enough, as it is now. There are five different companies operating passenger services and seven companies operating freight services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e339	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e342	We are now dealing with St.meld. No 18 for 2006-2007 concerning the activities of the NSB. It proposes to provide the Storting with an overview of the activities of the NSB and is based on the 2007 planning documents. At the same time, the Communication will also provide the Storting with a briefing on the company's development in the previous period, while demonstrating the challenges facing the company and the strategies and plans that have been put forward for the next few years. In my speech, I would like to try to explain the views of the Advancement Party in some areas where we either have a different view, or areas that we are particularly concerned with highlighting. However, before doing so, I would like to point out that the majority of the comments on page 2 of the vote refer to the national transport plan, where the Stortinget adopted five main objectives of transport policy in Norway. These are objectives supported by the whole Storting and it is therefore particularly important that the majority of its comments refer to this and choose to insert a new word, ‘climate-friendly transport’, as a natural part of these five main objectives, when this does not actually match what the Storting adopted when it dealt with the national transport plan. I would also like to point out that the majority here is obviously trying to be politically correct and in line with time, and in that way refers to decisions that unfortunately are not correct, which we think are a little special. With regard to the structure of the company, we propose to sell out the bus business and all the property that is not significant for the company to operate with the core business of the company, namely train and railway operations. As part of our proposals for changes to the company, we also believe that it would be very positive for the company to bring in private owners who could come in and look with new eyes and contribute to the company's good development. We are also of the opinion that the part of the company that should be state-owned should be transferred to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, which will ensure that there is no confusion between the role of the Ministry of Transport as both regulator, owner and order. This is also important in order to ensure that no questions will be asked as to whether the Ministry discriminates against the companies that might compete on the railway network in the future. It is important to prevent such a combination of roles, and there was also one of the main reasons why BaneTele was in due course separated from the Ministry of Transport and ownership transferred to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. We would point out that, after several years of decline, rail passenger traffic was able to reverse the negative trend in 2003 and that in recent years the NSB has had a very good development both in terms of passenger and freight transport. The Progress Party will work to facilitate this development, but it must do so in areas where the train has competitive power and/or advantage to compete with the other modes of transport. We believe that in order to ensure that this development continues, it is important, as mentioned earlier in my statement, to bring new owners into the NSB, which can help and contribute to the continuation of positive development. The competition has also shown that it provides a better offer to customers and strengthens NSB’s business. We therefore believe it is important that the competitive take-up of several sections of the railway line continues, preferably at a much faster pace than has been the case so far. In this respect, I would like to show that the competitive outsourcing on Gjøvikbanen has been a success, which actually led to more than 40 pst. multiple take-offs, while passenger growth for the first half of the year was of a total of 15 pst. – without this having cost the State a red ear more than before the distance was exposed to competition. We therefore believe that this clearly demonstrates that competition contributes to a better offer for customers than they had before the competition. We are therefore of the opinion that the Sørlandsbanen, Kongsvingerbanen and Tronderbanen are sections that should be subject to competition. The progress party is often accused of wanting to shut down the railway. These are statements that are completely wrong, and we're taking away from it. The Progress Party is committed to ensuring a modern, efficient and forward-looking railway, where trains today and in the future have the competitiveness to compete with the other modes of transport. But unfortunately, we have some sections where there are other reasons for maintaining the rail service than perhaps just the political desire for a train to go there, either because of environmental considerations, the number of passengers or road safety. As you know, the Transport Economic Institute has produced a report on competition on the Norwegian rail network, which states that there are some sections where maintaining the routes is not socio-economically viable either. The party of progress is of the opinion that it is important to ensure a good offer on the railway where the railway has the opportunity to compete, rather than on death and life, to maintain it in areas where it is not life-friendly and which may weaken the competitiveness of those sections that are profitable, because it contributes to subsidising unprofitable distances. In this way, the profitable routes lose their competitiveness. In recent years, freight transport has also experienced very positive developments, and on some routes capacity has been decommissioned. This means that the objective of getting more goods across from road and sea to rail is difficult to achieve on several routes if no new crossing tracks are established to increase capacity. The Progress Party is committed to contributing to the prioritisation of these types of actions. Netbuss has been developing very well in recent years, and the express bus offer has become a major success with offers across large parts of the country. This is also operated without any form of public support. It shows that it is a large market and a large potential, and we believe it is important that a framework condition should also be created in the future which will help to continue the good development of the express buses and the TIMExpress. We would also point out that Nettbuss’ other activities have developed well. With regard to the economic development of the NSB, this has improved in recent years and has been in surplus since 2003. However, this assumes that you do not include the public service contract, which has a cost for the State of approx. NOK 1.5 billion to maintain the offer on many routes. We would like to point out that we are very pleased that the company has not had any serious accident in recent years where employees or passengers have been seriously injured. However, it must be pointed out that there have been many aspects of safety both on and along the railway track, which have been pointed out by the Railway Surveillance Authority and which are important for the company to take seriously and ensure that it is rectified. We would point out that while the number of passengers using the railway has increased, customer satisfaction with the company has increased, but there is still some way to go before you can be quite satisfied. In order for customer satisfaction to continue to rise, it is important that the company continues to increase punctuality, improve train equipment and clean-up on trains, which are some of the things that many still think are too bad. In the coming years, the company will need to invest heavily in new materials to meet customers’ requirements for train equipment, while at the same time meeting universal design requirements, to ensure that disabled persons too will have the opportunity to use trains. Unfortunately, much of the material is old and should have been replaced a long time ago. We will therefore ask the Government, in the form of proposals, to come back to the Storting with a case in which, in the coming years, it is estimated to reduce the state's demand for dividends in order to meet the major needs of the company, in order to replace large parts of the company's material. I would like to include the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e378	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e384	I registered that the representative Hoksrud responded that the word ‘climate’ came into the setting, and it does not surprise me. The party of progress has never been concerned with climate policy. However, if we are to achieve this overarching policy objective in the field of climate, the railways have an enormously important role to play. Elles is the railway policy of the Progress Party rather boisterous things, although Hoksrud says they are for the railway. After all, they've cut off the railroad's licenses for years. When you talk about keeping up the profitable train routes, it shows the inconsistency, too much of the government purchase is just in and around the dense areas like Oslo. If one were to base its policy on the Progress Party, local and regional train traffic had actually stopped altogether. It would have led to an enormous chaos. My question concerns the proposal of the Progress Party, to sell NSB AS, which is a very good group. They drive by bus and train, they have more legs to stand on and actually help to strengthen public transport in the country. Is it the public transport Hoksrud wants to weaken?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e393	Firstly, it is wrong, as the representative of Rudihagen points out, that the Progress Party will cut the appropriations for railway operations, investment and maintenance. In fact, the Progress Party has put forward a proposal for an infrastructure fund of DKK 300 billion, which would mean that the railway would be strengthened by approx. SEK 1.8 billion, if the Advance Party had received a majority in favour of its proposal. So it's not true that the Progress Party is negative to the railway, but we're concerned that the railway should have the opportunity where the railway has competitive power, and where the railway can compete, so that you get the most accessible modes of transport where you need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e398	I have to go a little further into the Budgetary Philosophy of the Progress Party. I thought if a subtraction from something in the budget would reduce an amount, for example. for the purchase of personal services of 400 million. kr, there will be less money to spend. To me, it sounds like Hoksrud thinks there's going to be more trains to cut e.g. 400 million. $850 million. SEK in investments or 650 million. kr in operation. If it is the case that there is more of everything by cutting a lot, I would recommend this to the Minister of Finance. So I have to get an explanation for that. I found that the Progress Party has a problem, not least when it comes to cut off the purchase of personal services. The progress of the train is against drivers, but if a cut in the train supply is in central strokes, the traffic queues will be longer. That means that the Progress Party has a policy that makes most people, even more so than today, stand in a queue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e405	Firstly, I don't think the representative Langeland heard about what I said about an infrastructure fund. I proposed to spend an extra 300 billion kroner, of which 25 pst. goes to public transport and railway. That would strengthen the railway by 1.8 billion kroner. In addition, it is important to bear in mind that the difference between SV and the Progress Party is that we have faith in competition, and the Gjøvik Railway is an excellent example of how it actually works. With our policy, where competition had been given, we would get better offers at a lower cost for the state. So if you take away something on the purchase of a person, it doesn't necessarily mean that the offer is getting worse. It's rather the opposite, it can actually be even better – something the Gjøvik track is a good example of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e412	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, tried an offensive post for the transport by train and for the NSB. It's positive. But then there is a question of whether it is related to the comments and proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote. Here you have to quote and sell yourself in the NSB, and you have to sell Nettbuss out altogether. In addition, a cut in the purchase agreement shall be made. Now Replicants have tried it before me, but I want to ask Bård Hoksrud: if you want to cut out the so-called unprofitable purchases, it must have a consequence for where you have a purchase today. It is precisely in the intercity triangle that money is currently being spent, mainly on the purchase of unprofitable services. Does that mean you want to strip the train traffic in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e419	No, as I tried to express to the previous speaker too, we are concerned that we still have 1.1 million. kr for the purchase of passengers by rail. In fact, it is the central area, Oslo and the area around Oslo, where the representative Sahl is concerned, that goes about. 700-800 million. Total kr. So there's nothing problematic about our proposal. Then you also have to take with you that competition reduces the cost, and that makes you have the opportunity to do it. What's important to us when we want to sell out the bus division is that the NSB should focus on what's the main purpose of the NSB and the NSB's operations, and that's to operate rail transport in Norway. That's the background for us wanting to sell out the bus division in the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e426	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e429	First of all, I would like to send a reward to all railway employees for the work done to get the NSB back on the rails, so to speak. We've been a lot closer to what we can call Swiss punctuality on the railway in the last year, and we've got more satisfied users. I would argue that the success now experienced by the NSB is due to the structural changes in the company that were adopted under the Bondevik II government, and the historic railway operation that was then carried out. The right is concerned with the importance of rail for the whole of the transport service in general and with the provision of collective services in particular. Rail has great environmental benefits compared to road traffic and air traffic. The transfer of goods from road to road is important for the environment and has an impact on road safety. As a strong freight and passenger transporter in Norway, therefore, the NSB is an important instrument in this policy objective. However, it is clear to the right that, after the changes that have taken place in the NSB, the transfer of ownership to the NSB from the Ministry of Transport to the Ministry of Industry and Trade is now being considered. Under the previous government, this was done with BaneTele with the same reason. This will serve the long-term development of the NSB. Today, the role of the Ministry of Transport is to be both regulator, owner and order. In the right, it is important that the company focuses on its core business, which is passenger transport and freight transport. The competitiveness of rail is high when large quantities of goods are to be carried over long distances. The Communication refers to the growth of combined transport in Norway and the fact that CargoNet is now mainly in combined transport. In order to get even more goods to rail, it is necessary to continue the development of double tracks, crossing tracks and freight terminals. Another aspect in relation to goods, especially on the Nordlandsbanen, is the NOx tax. The right is in doubt that the anti-tax measures really compensate for the NOx tax. The right believes that the NOx tax is distorting competition, and we have therefore proposed to remove it in our alternative budget for 2007. It is also necessary to give priority to other measures contributing to the increase of freight capacity. This week, for example, came. a good news of what relatively small measures can be implemented, namely raising the contact lines in tunnels. It may mean that other and larger types of vehicles can be used. However, the Right also considers it important that CargoNet be given greater competition, and it is important that infrastructure is also organised for this purpose. In the Right, we believe that the competitive outsourcing of passenger transport should have been carried out on several routes. On Gjøvikbanen, travellers have received a much better offer. In the course of the 2007 state budget, the right proposed to make a similar call for tender for operations on Kongsvingerban. We also noticed that the NSB's management agrees with us, and believes that the Kongswingerbahn is well suited for the continuation of the use of tenders. Personally, I am convinced that the Kongswingerbahn travelers, such as travellers on the Gjøvik Railway, would get a better offer. The aversion of the red-green parties to the competition is paradoxical and contradictory. They recognise the success of Gjøvikbanen and welcome the fact that the NSB is working in competitive activities in the Nordic region with great success. Nevertheless, there is no more competition in passenger transport in Norway. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get There is also a significant need for the renewal of NSB rolling stock, and we believe that both this and increased capacity will have good effects. Increased standards will be a pleasure for today’s travellers and, of course, also for future travellers — hopefully eventually also for people with disabilities. In winter, there have been problems on some long-distance routes, such as: Bergensbanen. From several teams it is highlighted that NSB's material is not well adapted to Norwegian winter time conditions. We support this assessment to some extent, but will also point out that the Railway Agency has a special responsibility to keep the routes open and accessible for traffic. It should be possible to impose stricter requirements on long-distance train operations. Competitive outsourcing can also be an appropriate tool here to achieve this objective. The NSB and the Railway Agency have a strategy to develop passenger traffic in the regions around the largest cities. We believe that the NSB should play a role in improving the coordination of public transport in and around the major cities. Both the NSB and the Railway Agency have considerable competence in rail transport and the railway works are several places owned by existing and unused line networks that can be refurbished for use in modern public transport. For example, in Bergen, the NSB plans for the continuation of existing rail networks to Flesland airport via the Füllingsdalen and Sandsli/Kokstad. Such a solution could connect the country's second largest airport directly to the railway network while at the same time acting as efficient public transport between several parts of Bergen. Right, it's nice that the NSB's bus business is going well, but we would like to stress that the NSB's main focus is on train operation. We therefore warn against developments where bus traffic takes passengers away from the train, where this could lead to an increased need for public purchases and reduced competitiveness of the railway. It is unfortunate if it turns out that the NSB bus carrier is competing with the NSB train traffic on routes up to parallel traffic, and there is a lack of coordination. It should be known that, in the Right, the political awakening and awareness of the high-speed concept in Norway is positive. We believe it is very positive that the NSB believes that a railway infrastructure that allows high speeds will provide the train with a significant competitive advantage and has a large potential to increase traffic. This is therefore an important input to the investigations undertaken by the Government on the high-speed rail. It is positive that the NSB has ambitions in the development of high-speed rail in Norway. We noticed that the NSB's management during the hearing underlined that high-speed trains are the key if the train is to take really big market shares on longer distances. But we also noticed that the NSB is concerned that the effort on this should not be made at the expense of investments in other infrastructure and passenger traffic, as the rapporteur also pointed out. They were also clear that the existing grid must be the starting point for the structure of the future. This is perhaps the largest environmental and mobility promotion in modern Norway, and we are delighted to be involved in and contribute to this development. A continuation of the dividend policy is envisaged, with the return from the NSB being limited up to 75 pst. of the profits of the group after tax. We believe that a long-term and predictable dividend policy is important, so that the NSB has the possibility of long-term development, planning and operation. In the right we believe that the company and the board should be able to carry out investments that ensure the long-term and good development of the company. I would like to address the proposals that are on the right and that have not already been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e474	The representative of Øyvind Halleraker has taken up proposal No. Eight. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e479	It is no surprise that the Right and the representative Halleraker are engaged in tendering and privatisation. I don't quite know how many routes and routes Halleraker intends to privatize, but I've noticed that it's constantly being suggested more and more, as the committee travels around the counties. Postponement of tenders in the bus industry has shown us that competition and tenders have led to unsafe and unmotivated employees. The negative pay-as-you-go index has again led to major difficulties in recruiting employees. Our government is cleaning up the bus industry, but I have to ask Halleraker why he now also wants this development, which has proved to be so negative over time, within passenger transport by train. Won't the Right take lessons from the bus industry, or are you here completely blinded by ideology?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e486	Our focus is primarily on users and road users' premises. Through all possible measures, we want to offer a better deal. If competitive outsourcing can also offer a better deal, we'll claim that's the way to go. I want to make the NSB management's words my own. At the hearing in the Committee, they claimed that the fact that they were given a competitive concession into their organisation, that they had to deal with this as a new element in their activities, gave the whole organisation a tremendous positive boost. Those aren't my words. That's NSB's own word. Even before they entered and created NSB Tenders, but also after they won tenders of course, it gave a very legitimacy to what they are doing – also outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e494	I'm joining the honor that Halleraker gives to the NSB's addendum and the lead. Thanks to this government, they have a safe, secure and competent workplace – something they wouldn't have had if Halleraker had been allowed to compete and their proposals, which would lead to English conditions before the train service. I have to say I slipped a little in the chair when I heard that the era for the good in the NSB is quite simply that it has led our right-wing policy in Norway. There's the main reason why this is happening. So the answer to that question is also that this government is doing wrong, because we're investing more money than the previous government did on the railway. What they did when they were in position, Halleraker, was simply to deliver the poor budget. So my question to you is, is it that it's good policy to drive the train to have a low budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e501	The President wants my speech to be addressed to the President and not to the person directly asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e504	Sometimes it's a shame you don't have more than 1 minute to respond to in a line chord shift. There's a show that the red-green try to sell, that the Bondevik government didn't bet on the railroad. It's all wrong. You can go back in the budgets and see that the bet on many fields within the railway was all the way up to 50 pst. – a historic bet. But what we did that was more historical was to facilitate the structural change that happened, both in terms of passenger transport and freight transport. If you don't recognize that it has given results, you have to be reasonably blind. I also want to say that bringing employees' interests forward in such a perspective becomes a little paradoxical, when I just referred to what the employees felt about the modernisation of the NSB, and what they had to deal with when they were going to compete in an open market. It had great positive effects on the organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e515	I just want to follow up what Halleraker now says. The Red-Green Government and we in the Workers' Party are particularly concerned about seeing employees as a good foundation for any enterprise. I believe that happy employees who feel that they are valued, especially with money and wages, who we should think were a language that Right-wing, often do a much better job than underpaid employees who feel insecure for their job. Then I just have to say that the only thing I find historically in the budgets of the previous government was the money that was given in tax dollars instead of investments. While the previous government gave tax reliefs to those who had the most from before, we were willing to spend the same money on bets to the NSB. So if the bet was historic, it could be even more historic if you didn't go for historical tax promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e522	I'm going to give the representative Wickholm a few numbers since he's so interested in this. The railway investments under the previous government had a real increase of 53 pst. The railway budget as such had an increase of 33 p.m., and the budget for the purchase of passenger services by train had an increase of 52 p.m. These figures can be found in public documents if you're in doubt about that. In terms of the concept of ‘happy employees’, I think it is an exciting concept. I have always had problems understanding that you should be happier because you are a public employee. In fact, I think it's rather the opposite. I think those who are valued because they do a job, and who have to compete a little bit against some others in their business, do a better job and also have a better self-esteem than if they were otherwise to be the target of a public group.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e531	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e534	SV is very pleased with NSB – the lead and of course with the efforts of all of them to ensure that this company is doing well. Not only does it apply to the performance, but it is also better for the punctuality, and the status and trustworthiness of the Norwegian people are rising. That's good. That's good for the train. That's good for the environment, and that's good for all of us, I think. Not least if you also recognise that there is a climate problem, the effort on trains and the efforts of the NSB to make it an important point. I am also pleased that the NSB, unlike some other works, is in favour of investing on the high-speed rail in Norway, in order to be able to take even more traffic away from the roads the Progress Party did not get built. It's the stall now around the country that most people actually want a high-speed train, because one sees that it can do something about the climate gas problem, reduce air traffic and reduce road freight traffic. It's very good that the NSB is positive and engaged in. In this respect, it is a trend across Europe. In Spain, a premium of NOK 1000 billion is to be paid on the high-speed rail. Argentina shall bet on the high-speed rail. One does so in several EU countries, and we cannot be worse in Norway. We also have to keep doing this and make sure to get him in place at some point. – Just like a poem: Remember what one did then a bet on the Bergensbanen. Then a government budget was used to get it out. And it's been a hundred years. Aren't we going to be as visionary as they were a hundred years ago? I hope so. I want to criticise the NSB in one area. It's a criticism that I sincerely hope I won't make it again. This applies to universal design. When it comes to what the government is responsible for, one must listen carefully to what the government says. It has to end the argument that it is too expensive, or whatever, to have universal design. From now on, the universal design that applies is the same thing. Everyone at Stortinget has a few things to say about, but I have the impression that the bureaucracy of some places is countering this. We're not going to like that. We red-green were in Stockholm a short time ago. There is no question about this. It's only universal design that's valid. That's the way it should be in Norway as well, and in the NSB. So I would also say that when it concerns a company like NSB, I didn't think that's right what our government is doing, or what the previous government did, we're going to take the excess into the common fund and spend the money until we think it's right. When a company like NSB has managed to reverse a negative trend, where one has had a large deficit and now goes with a large surplus, I think we should make an exception for NSB. They should keep their money so that they can invest in more train traffic, better wagons, more universally designed vehicles. Here I have not yet the government with me, but I know that I have a lot of big business representatives in the red-green government with me in view of this. So at least I'll work on it from my stand. NSB thinks that some of the problem is that we have an old-fashioned infrastructure. I think that's quite right. Very much of this is old. There are areas, such as Bård Hoksrud, where the train cannot go faster than 30 km/h, and of course it is totally unsustainable for a modern and environmentally friendly railway. The Soria Moria statement is very clear that we are going to have more goods from road to road, that we are going to bring down the greenhouse gas pollution unit. Then we have to make sure that we get a corresponding infrastructure. There's this government going to get to, because we're just using more money on the railroad. Right can drive by percentage of the increase, but if you have zero, you don't need much to increase it by any percentage. So here it's clear that what we're showing in numbers, in pure money -- that's what we're talking about -- is the point. Then, unfortunately, the Bondevik II regime and the Right comes to a close, because then the money isn't as big as it sounds, if you talk about an increase of 50 pst. But hopefully you got the Right to a taxet in government -- I won't take it from them -- but if one takes away money from the community, it's at least my imagination that it'll be less for the community to hand it over to the people. But it's possible that I'm wrong about such a theory, too, because the Right makes it so that when you give more taxes, take money from the community, it becomes more to the train. It seems a little strange. But I assume that the representative, Mr Halleraker, can elaborate on this later in the debate. Banes betting has many positive effects. We agree that we should bring down road accidents on the Norwegian road. It would be easy if there were no cars on the roads. Then there would be no traffic accidents. But I don't think anyone wants it, because in Norway, of course, there are many places where one is completely dependent on the car as a means of transport. That's why the government is focusing on road maintenance, on racial protection and on building roads in the districts, because there's no collective provision. If you want to do this properly, you must bet on the train. Then more people will take the train. Then fewer drivers will run fast, and one will get a better climate. One will get less noise, and one will get less local pollution. There are now a number of cars in the Oslo area in line and forureins. Instead, we have to build up the railroad. We have to get people out of the car queue and into the train. That's where the Progress Party comes in short because they unfortunately believe that asphalt is the answer to all the questions. However, among others: in Oslo, one sees that the Progress Party has come up with a better idea. They go in to build up the railway and the bus transport. They even go in for tolls to get to these solutions, as opposed to what the transport fraction here on Stortinget does. I want my own area, North-Jearen, to be a pilot area for an experiment like that in Stockholm. I have problems getting a political impact on it, because the Progress Party and the Right are very big in my county. So the chance that one is still standing in the queue on the North Jury is very great, because one does not get the necessary bet on the collective solutions. But our government is investing in building out double tracks. We're doing it now. We build freight terminal. We are helping to reduce transport by road. I'm very pleased with that. And then I get to worry about those parts that just distribute carrots and think that's the solution. In Stockholm, the authorities were more confident that if they didn't have a charge, people would continue to drive, pollute and create noise problems. So you have to have an Ole Brumm policy: yes, thank you both, both for a fee to limit running and, of course, an offer, so that you can avoid driving a car, but you can sit on trains or buses. I would also like to say that when we now build double tracks on the North-Jear, we have to make sure to get it operational as soon as possible, not to leave any stations unopened due to some small technical details or not to facilitate combinations, because now we are also going to build the city tracks on the North-Jear. Everything has to be included, and the government has to make sure it's set up. I think that's what I'm going to do. NSB's fine. I'm very happy about that. The NSB shall be even better for consumers, for those added and for the Norwegian people. We have to make sure that the train is moving faster and that the environment is getting better. It's future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e567	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e570	I'm recording that SV has got a new lead country, Argentina. I also believe that the representative of Langeland is aware that the transport statistics we have in Norway are quite misleading in terms of energy use and environmental emissions, and produce rail passenger transport much more favourably than is actually the case. But then to the question. In its programme, SV is in favour of a greener and more offensive transport policy. In addition to betting on bicycles to and from jobs in densely built strips, SV will make it attractive and profitable to choose the railway. For each krona invested in the construction of the main road, two kronor must be invested in the modernisation of the railway. How many kroner will SV use for high-speed trains? Is it money that comes in addition to modernising today's rail system? Is it money to be taken from the appropriations for the main road network, or is it fresh money? What does SV want to spend on high-speed trains in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e577	Now the finance minister is not here, so I have to be careful about what I'm answering when she's away. But let me put it this way: I've seen that the Progress Party has seen $300 billion for an infrastructure fund, one of which is kind of putting in a line of argument, and now the train transport is getting involved in this. But when it comes to high-speed rail, those who work on this say it's not going to cost anything. They're going to build this path, and he's going to run commercially. I guess Arne Sortevik's got to be happy with that. I think one way or another, you might have to use an economic model like the Progress Party to get this on the track. We haven't discussed this yet. My goal is to build a high-speed rail. And then we get to create the economic solutions that that path requires. I think that's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e585	The red-greens always get a little insecure when challenged on empty rhetoric. So also today when Langeland claims there's no problem getting 50 pst. increase when the starting point is zero. Of course, the starting point was not zero, but the fact is that we took over after a whole red government in 2001. Of course, we don't take money from the community. The Community's money is also the money that people get to dispose of themselves, for example. to purchase train tickets. I came up with a short story about the pessimist who was asked how it went. So he said, well, it's going really well, then, but I don't know if I like it! It'll be a little bit like this when the majority parties here talk about the NSB and the bet on the Gjøvik course. Why has SV not entered to reverse the invitation to tender on Gjøvikbanen?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e594	I now note that the representative Halleraker is very pleased with this government, which is getting good money on the railway and ensuring that more people take the train and that the NSB is going well. I thank you for that. When it comes to the question of the Gjøvik track, there is something going on. The path is up and going. To depriv him of the principle for the sake of principle, just as the Right shall privatise for the sake of principle, there can be no problem for SV. Now a running out of time has been set. But it's clear that we socialists are concerned that the Norwegian people are going to make money, not necessarily a Right-Man who has enough money already. The starting point is that we want money for the community, so that we can build roads and railways, and not the solutions that Right has, more for tax havens and less for the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e601	It's interesting to listen to the representative of Langeland when suddenly $1 billion to the railway is historic and hugely beautiful and fine, when we know that today's railway needs 80-100 billion kroner, and that Langeland wants a high-speed train of 150-200 billion kroner. I understand that there will be a lot of historical uplifts on the representative Langeland, if not many years before you're in the finish line. It is possible that the representative of Langeland had a slight delay when he answered the question from the representative of Sortevik. But does the answer mean that we can assume that SV is now for a fund solution, but that you disagree a little bit about how the distribution is going to be? Does SV now support the whole heart about a fund solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e608	I also forgot to answer Sortevik's questions about Argentina. I am for all countries that do wise things. This makes the Argentinians when they build a high-speed path. When it comes to funds, I said that what I'm going to be busy about when it comes to high-speed rail – at the moment he's at the disposal stage, but I see that the Norwegian people and greenhouse gas pollution make it necessary to bet on such solutions – is the calculation of the Advance Party of 150 billion kroner. But if one takes the environment into these calculators, if the calculators are going to be the way they should be for the future, it's going to be very small. Then it won't be the way the Progress Party scares with, $150 billion, or something like that. In fact, it can be very small investments, compared to, for example, the EU. what one did to Bergensbanen 100 years ago. My main point to the Progress Party is that we have a solution that will take people most out of the queue and into the train. We are amazed that the Progress Party is running so hard against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e615	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e618	Let me first inform you that the Christian People's Party will support proposal No. 2 in the setting. The situation of the NSB is relatively stable and good, and there is a broad consensus in the Storting that the NSB should continue to be a State carrier that contributes to ensuring the objective of increased road traffic, both in terms of passenger and freight transport. The aim is to make the most of the journey by train. The Communication states that strong State ownership of the NSB group is necessary to ensure a strong position on the train in competition with other modes of transport. The State must use the management mechanisms to strengthen the railway. Good collective provision and the transfer of goods from road to road are important to reduce social problems related to the environment and road safety. In addition to the management mechanisms, the purchase of transport services is important in order to fulfil the social tasks of the train, where there is no basis for commercial operation. This is crucial, among other things: in order to maintain train provision in and around the central population areas so as to avoid traffic jams, corks and polluting emissions. Should people take the train, we must have an offer that customers perceive as good and stable. It concerns punctuality, information provided, departure times, travel time and the comfort offered. NSB’s customers are increasingly satisfied with NSB’s offers and services, especially the regional train offer. It is positive that the arrows point in the right direction, but the potential for improvement is significant, and this is especially true for local genes. NSB has received a lot of criticism from those signed for the Agenda trains as a day train offer on the Nordlandsbanen. But now it's time for praise. The locomotive and wagons are soon in place again, and the northers rejoice. On the other hand, the conversion of night and night services has been very controversial. The sleeping cars that were placed in Kristiansand, Mo in Rana and Lake Mose, must be put back in place again. If you want to sleep on the train, you have to get laid in the normal time, otherwise you might as well get up and take an early flight. Here the Minister should use the whip and, if necessary, extend the purchase. Changes should certainly be made so that the night watch is again perceived as more attractive and topical than flying. Another important prerequisite for people who choose the train is competitive prices. In 2004, the NSB introduced mini-prices on regional trains. This has helped to increase the use of capacity and more public travellers. It is a great offer to travel long distances in Norway for only 199 or 299 kroner. The Committee has received consultation input from the Joint Organisation of Disabilities and the Association of Norway, which expresses concern at the work of universal design. We are pleased that the Government of the new framework agreement with the NSB has established that the train offer should be designed in such a way that as many as possible can make use of the offer in an ordinary and equivalent manner. However, the Christian People’s Party believes that the Government of the purchase agreement with the NSB should impose more specific, binding requirements on the availability of new trains and on the upgrading of existing materials. Passenger transport by train is facing increasing competition from other modes of transport. At short and medium distances, the train meets competition from the passenger car and from the bus. On the longest routes, competition is greatest from aircraft. Low-cost air tickets are increasingly accessible. The competitive picture is also marked by express buses with route services in parallel with the train offer. Christian People’s Party agrees with the Government when they write that ‘a high focus on the train as the base of the NSB collective offer is the best strategy to win the competition for the travellers’. It is great that the goal of the NSB’s Board of Directors is to systematically improve train provision in Norway. At the same time, however, the NSB was heavily involved in bus operations. The NSB has become heavily involved in the bus sector and the NSB has become a very busy bus company. The Christian People's Party agrees that buses are good where these buses are part of an interaction with the train and strengthen public transport. We are therefore not in favour of the sale proposal. But we're critical that the bus goes parallel to the train. We want the train to go on the rails and not on the mains on the road along the rails. Finally, we are pleased to note that the offer and the number of passengers have increased on the Gjøvik track after the conclusion of a new contract based on competition. There is a development that the entire Committee seems to be interesting and we agree with the Government Parties that the NSB should exploit the efficiency and market potential of such a competitive environment. It will be in the best interests of public transport in general.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e641	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e644	At the end of the last period following the majority decision to increase by DKK 22 billion in relation to the budget of the Bondevik government, the representative of the majority, Sahl, spoke of the alleged ‘air billions’ for transport. The government is now complying with the majority decision and has added to the allocation in line with the decision, while the Christian People's Party and the other parties of the Bondevik government now have money for both the new corridor and the high-speed ring. Was the accusation of ‘air billions’ based on terror propaganda in a campaign, or was it pure frustration over government partners who would not prioritize railway investment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e649	The representative, Halleraker, has just pointed out the marked effort made by the Cooperation Agency in the previous period in collective transport and, not least, in facilitating the provision of trains, both infrastructure and the purchase of train services. So I'm willing to admit that in the presentation of the National Transport Plan in the previous round, the sitting government parties, in cooperation with the Progress Party, had a higher commitment to transport than we had then, and so that we could afford it at that time, with the economic prospects that it was then right for. I have been the first to give praise to the sitting government for keeping their promises. So if I was critical in the start-up phase of what we saw as economically possible, I have, in my opinion, been riddled with the sitting government parties for the promises they have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e656	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e659	The Stortingspleirtal bets on the railway, and has, among other things, increase track investments by 50 pst. This is offensive and forward-looking – offensive because it is a real lift for the railway, forward-looking because the railway is the most environmentally friendly mode of transport. In order to secure a good future for us and our globe, we need to get emissions of greenhouse gases down. Hopefully, with a targeted investment on the railways, we will reduce impurity in driving and transport of goods by lorry. As pointed out by the case-speaker, the infrastructure is an important entity for the NSB. Increased infrastructure rights mean that it is possible to develop both passenger and freight traffic. In my post, I want to pay special attention to freight traffic, because it has a lot to say both for the environment and for our business. One example is the Meråkerbahn, where the business community has given clear notice that they will move a lot of goods from path to path if we make an upgrade. Now we've seen so much money that we can get a larger, consistent upgrade there. The axle load on the Meråker track can finally reach the standard level, which is 22,5 tonnes. Only for Norwegian Forest will this mean a saving in transport costs of millions of dollars. Furthermore, we are now upgrading the axle load on the Rørosbanen and the Solørbanen to 25 tonnes, and we have forced the development of a so-called remote control system on the Nordlandsbanen, which will increase the capacity of the track, reduce the running time and also make it easier to run in delays. We have followed up with money to the Alnabru terminal, which is the largest bottleneck for freight. There is also full propulsion at the terminal at Gandal in Stavanger. This leads to significantly more efficient terminals, which can handle larger volumes in a shorter time, and will allow a freight train to run the Stavanger-Oslo journey in a day. It repeats that a train can have fixed routes, thus getting a much better use of the material. So there's a lot of good grips that have already been taken or that are about to be taken. Further efforts on double tracks, crossing tracks and upgrading the infrastructure will lead us even closer to the goal of getting the most out of freight traffic from road to road. Finally, a few words about two important themes that NSB as a public actor needs to take further consideration. The first is universal design. In 2007, it's embarrassing that we're no longer making buildings and means of transport available to everyone. I want to underline the responsibility of the NSB to meet the ambitious but equally just goal of universal design. The second and last thing I want to mention is something that is not mentioned in the message, that is, the language policy of the group. The starting point is the NSB's own statutes, which stipulate that the principle of the law on objectives should be followed as far as possible. In the comments of a number of the Committee, it is pointed out that the NSB as a state enterprise has a responsibility in this context. I'm glad that the Left and Christian People's Party have cooperated with the government party on this, and I hope that the NSB will take this signal from a broad majority. It's important for two reasons. The NSB is a linguistic actor, a language producer, through advertising material, signs and in all its communication with the outside world. As a state enterprise, the NSB has a co-responsibility for measures to ensure linguistic diversity: nynorrhea and bookkeeping. The second is NSB's reputation. More than half a million Nordics can somehow be classified as new drug users. Many of the NSB's customers are using newnore. It will strengthen and enhance the reputation of the NSB if the company is aware of meeting its customers in their language. The most important thing in this case is that the train is usually possible and timely, and that the NSB delivers what they promise, but sometimes – as here and now – it is also meaningful to remember tasks, duties and responsibilities that quickly come into the shadow, such as: language policy. Anyway – as I said – it is very happy that a large, wide and qualified plural in Stortinget thinks this is actually a point. Then we look forward to a further bet on the core track in time to come, and want to close the NSB by making the offer before passenger and freight traffic more customizable in all ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e689	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e692	In its program, the party of the centre says that it is the ‘Time for Train’. It further states that the Centre Party will ‘implement an economic power cap in relation to the maintenance and initial investment of routes’. The question is: are there existing railways or is the new concept of high-speed rail the centre party will give priority? Or does the Center Party believe that extra funds are available for good purposes? And then I ask, in that case, what about good road projects, does the Senter Party have extra money for them as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e697	Of course we do. The center game is a game that can have not only two tanks in its head at the same time, but more than one. There is no contrast between betting on the path and betting on the road, nor the difference between being able to bet on the existing and being able to look forward and thinking about high-speed paths.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e702	In my time as a state politician, I had a very good cooperation with the Center Party, especially in matters of travel. In the case of launching competition on the railway, the centre party is unclear here in the house and against continuing the success story on other suitable sections. But here, too, the Center Party is more clearly locally. The centre party rapporteurs along the Gjøvik track welcome developments on the track and are very, very pleased. Why won't the Center Party here in the house listen to these and open up a similar solution to, for example. The Kingswing Railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e707	Let me first say that the Centre Party is not in principle opposed to a competitive postponement in all fields. We think there should be a good balance between public and private business. The fact that the Gjøvik course has been a success is great. That doesn't mean it had to be a success other places. What I thought it was worth noting is that the NSB has managed to make good adjustments on those sections where there has not been a competitive postponement. I have full confidence that in the interaction that will continue between the sponsor and the group, the NSB will continue to develop and become more effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e714	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e717	We have a lot to enjoy when it comes to developments in NSB. The change that the company has undergone has been very successful and has given us a safer, more efficient, and not least more service-conscious train service in Norway. For the left, the railway has always been an important field of activity, and I am pleased to see the positive development the company NSB has had. This is how my completed article from yesterday began. Today – on my way to Stortinget with the NSB, I experienced a snowfall of train chaos. The train was delayed, and when it first came, it was trippy. A little bad start to the day, but the positive thing was that the passengers got both a regret and a great thank you for showing patience by standing tight. This type of information and regret is very important and shows an increased level of service in the NSB. Of course, the Left is also pleased to see that the Government is continuing the major investment on the Norwegian railway that the previous government carried out. And after self-responsive here today, I can tell you that I have easily accessible political accounts for the Ministry of Transport during the 2001–2005 Grand Prix. It's nice reading. But I'm not going to spend my time here on all of the big numbers, but I'm going to look forward to it. The success of tendering for the Gjøvik Railway shows that the NSB is mature and clear for the next step towards the future railway. In the Left, we are convinced that more competition in passenger transport will be a good thing – for individual travellers, for the NSB and the companies they compete with, and for society as a whole. The left was one of the rapporteurs behind the proposal for a call for tenders for operation on Kongsvingerbanen, similar to the Left, to implement it on Gjøvikbanen. The red-green parties along the Gjøvik track have admitted themselves that this was a very successful project, but the government parties do not show any willingness to follow up and open up competition on other sections. It's a position we in the Left have difficulty understanding. The NSB proved to be an organisation with the ability to turn around quickly and meet the strict requirements of the call for tenders. The NSB must be very commendable for that. The left-hand side has the user in focus and does not allow which name is set on the organisation model, determining whether a solution is good or bad. There is no doubt that competition on the Gjøvik track has given users a better offer than they had before, including those with reduced mobility. The committee was informed when we were on a train with the Gjøvik Railway. The society of the future is a society in motion. We travel more than ever – both in our jobs and in our leisure time – and in the future we are likely to move even more. For the left is a world where people can meet across great distances, a good one. Peace, development and growth — in the world and Norway — are inviolably linked to communication and to the freedom of people to meet without being hindered by distances. But unfortunately, our movements are also linked to the greatest challenge of the time. Human activity is changing the climate, and traffic by car and aircraft – based on fossil fuels – is one of the main sources of global warming. In Norway, the transport sector is the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions other than the oil industry. Therefore, rail investment is more important than ever. The train is one of the most environmentally friendly and not least one of the most climate-friendly modes of transport available. In the left we have worked a long time to move more of the transport onto trains. We are concerned that a growing share of freight transport is on the way. What is important then is, among other things: crossing tracks, for the capacity is detonated on our lines, according to the railway station. The left is proud that the Bondevik government started up important routes such as: the double track Asker-Sandvika. We are pleased that the current government seems to follow up on this. We are also proud of the launch of the Accessibility Programme Action Plan (BRA), which the current government also promises to follow up. Finally, in view of the challenges posed by the transport needs of the future, we are meeting the Government's high-speed rail investigation. We believe that a high-speed rail investment can provide the railway with a clean-up of passenger traffic in Norway. Such a commitment will be a great boost towards a society that is both mobile and climate friendly, and it is a promise that it is worth taking. Left won't crawl backwards into the future. We will face it with optimism. A solid railway bet is a big step in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e740	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e743	It was so great with all these start-ups during the Bondevik II government. It's just that the fact is that there were 75 million missing. When the red-green government took over, and if we had run the budget to Bondevik II, there would have been no start, then there would have been a stop. So the Left is very eager to tender and privatize and talk a lot about this. In particular, the Kongswingerban has now been mentioned in several contexts. Why in the world did Bondevik II put down the whole track? I wonder, because it had to start again on 7 January with the Red-Green Government with the Council of Navarsete. Is there something missing with the mindset and the composition here?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e750	There were several things here. I am very happy with that start-up, and I am now reading that it is going well, so I am also happy about that. And then we actually have more money to go with, so you can spend more money on transportation. I am also very pleased with the start-up with regard to the important double tracks between Asker and Oslo, the upgrading of Ski Station, in Stavanger area – very important, because it is precisely into the biggest cities that the pressure on traffic and the queues and the chaos is greatest, so it was actually very important. I think one should not complain like that, but say that it is positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e755	The representative Tenden draws up the Gjøvik track especially in his post and describes this path as a success. Then my question becomes: what makes the representative Tenden focus only on this route and not on all the other paths that also go very well, where the customers are satisfied and where the government has invested in expanded offers, and the NSB says they should invest in further procurement of materials to improve comfort, etc.? What makes the Gjøvik track so special, except that it is exposed to competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e761	I thank you for that question there. In 5 minutes, I can't ram up all the distances there are. But what we experienced when we visited the committee in connection with the Gjøvikbanen bid was actually that we met a ostrich director – female like that – who was proud of his job and had a great commitment. It was really an experience. That's the way it should be. It made a very strong impression on me, and so I hope we can get it on other routes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e768	I just want to follow up the line from the representative Fallet. I also agree with the Tende that there are great projects we are talking about here – double tracks Lysaker – Sandvika. However, I do not feel that the Tend entirely took over the problem, that Bondevik II granted money for start-up, but that the budget presented for 2005 lacked total money to continue this investment. I don't understand this, when you say you have to have more money to go with, and then you can bet on the railway – yes, why didn't Bondevik II do it that time? It just shows that there were other things that were more important than the railway. I wonder if Trend has an explanation for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e775	I am absolutely sure and can assure you – and I can reassure the representative – that we had still received in government, and with the same good income as the state has today and the same good economy, we still had the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e780	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e783	This is the fourth owner of the NSB's business that has been presented to the Stortinget, and the first under the sitting government. Here, important lines are drawn for how the Government will exercise its ownership, as well as an orientation and assessment of the plans and strategies of the company. The government wants to exercise a clear ownership of the NSB and see a state ownership of the company as a hub for overcoming transport policy objectives. The government wants to secure the train a strong position in competition with other means of transport. And it's a goal to transfer goods from road to road and passenger trips from private car to public transport. I focus on practicing a clear distinction between the role of the owner of the NSB and the other roles of the Ministry of Transport in the railway sector. It's like the owner of the NSB that I'm submitting this groceries message. When it comes to matters relating to the provision of infrastructure, the purchase of transport services and regulatory issues within the railway sector, I will come back to this in the annual state budget proposals and in the rolling of the next national transport plan. The government wants the NSB to be able to exploit the benefits of operating within several areas in order to build a good collective offer for travellers and a good freight transport service for business. As a transport group, the NSB has the ability to organise the different parts of the business in such a way that the resources can be used effectively for the benefit of travellers and business. This group structure supports the objective of cost-effective transport and the most profitable operation of trains. In this way, consideration may also be given to the increasing competition from large international transport groups already established in the Nordic region. I think the NSB should be of such size and competence that the group will be able to make a powerful alternative to these companies. The government is opposed to launching and selling parts of the passenger transport business to the NSB, among others. because there are gains in having an effective coordinated operation – not least in a system where there is limited capacity in the infrastructure. As a strong freight and passenger transport operator in Norway 100 pst. The company is owned by the State as an important tool in achieving the transport policy objective of transferring more transport from road to road. This is important in order to reduce problems related to the environment and road safety. The government has already stepped up its efforts to improve the transport supply to the Norwegian business community. Through this spillover, we give a clear signal that we want to use NSB as a hub to strengthen the competitiveness and efficiency of the Norwegian economy by developing an environmentally friendly, modern and efficient freight transport service. Compared to previous owner messages, in this message I have highlighted in particular that thinking about long-term and industrial ownership of NSB is a social responsibility. This is important in view of the fact that there is a high economic risk associated with an activity such as the NSB, with high fixed costs. A long-term perspective in the development of the NSB is important for society, and one can thus take better care of the environment, community, research and development, ethical standards and lack of governance and leadership. Better access in the rail sector is primarily covered by national policies and through the purchase of passenger transport services by the State. As the manager of the ownership of the NSB, I am busy that the company is involved in facilitating more people to travel by rail, not least this people with disabilities. Producing the most equivalent train offer for everyone I think will strengthen the confidence of the NSB as a modern and adaptable transport group. I record that the Committee is busy with the NSB's trains complying with the universal design requirements. This is a matter that is preserved by the framework agreement between the Ministry of Transport and the NSB on the purchase of train services. I would like to highlight the fact that the 2007-2010 framework agreement has a set of 100 million. kr for upgrade to make the train more accessible to all. During the forthcoming planning period, NSB proposes to buy new trains. The agreement between the State v/Ministry of Transport and the NSB will largely determine the design of new trains. I see that the majority in the committee is also aware that NSB buys trains that function optimally under Norwegian conditions. In this context, I would like to point out that the State Railway Authority is responsible for approving the trains to operate on the Norwegian network. This also means how the train adapts to Norwegian climatic conditions. NSB has been through many cycles of conversion. Conversions in the group have not been possible without their additions being active in the process. This has been, and must still be, a fundamental principle of future changes in the group in order to strengthen the potential for change and the profitability of the company. In my opinion, the NSB's extensive change of business over the last few years has been successful, both in terms of profitability and quality of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e809	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e812	Almost immediately after the 2005 elections, the Minister of Transport took over the brakes when it came to putting competition in Norway. It is therefore a little special that the NSB as a company has been allowed to consider the Nordic as the company’s domestic market, while the State Council does not wish to allow foreign operators or others to enter the Norwegian network in competition with the NSB. The question is then: does the Minister agree that the Nordics are the home market of the NSB? I felt so much that she was a little bit into it instead. And how does she view the NSB as taking advantage of competition in the Nordic countries, while she herself has reserved herself against this in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e819	As I said in my post, it's quite clear that the Nordics are the home market of the NSB. What is the core area, which I would like to stress to the NSB, is that the Norwegian market is to be provided by a good rail supply. It is ensured by an agreement between the State and the NSB that holds the salary in relation to the Norwegian market, which is not profitable in itself, which perhaps the representative of Hoksrud should take over when they co-ordinate a budget and cut 400 million. NOK on the purchase of state services. I also explained in my post why the government won't launch the train services in Norway, so I don't have to mention this here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e826	The central party representative Jenny Klinge just made it clear that the centre party is not a fundamental opponent of the competitive outsourcing. There's a happy news here today and gives good hope that we'll get on with this. On the other hand, representatives of the red parties have a much more dogmatic approach and claim that to be a happy worker, one must be a public employee. So then I wonder, does the council agree with this last statement, or is she more in line with her party trap from the Center Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e836	I guess my particular party trap wasn't in the state of luck for them to add. Her good answer reflects its pragmatic policy in this area. But we are fully committed to what this Council of States did in relation to stopping the rail competition. It has several reasons. It's about capacity in the network. It is also about the concern of those who are not as happy as the Halleraker representative wants it to be. I have just received a report from TØI that clearly indicates that they have added uncertainty. They're insecure, because they know that when the next competition comes, they can be out of work. Therefore, I am now working on a new report as a basis for setting the same requirements even in the event of a competitive launch. That's what they're trying to secure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e841	I realize that we don't get a high-speed train to Bodø on the Nordlandsbanen. For that enough, the passenger base is too small. But in the Christian People's Party we have great faith that the train should be able to compete on the so-called long distances. I expressed optimism because we now get locomotives and wagons on the day train, and the local genes that we have now got in the Bodø area, so it goes sour, and they go with profits. That's very good. We have received a new concept on the night train that, in my opinion, is very good in terms of the train equipment itself. But as I said in my post, "There was a sleeping cart in the lake of Mo in Rana, and there was one in Kristiansand." They were very popular, and the places were sold out almost 14 days before the train left. My question is: will the Minister take the initiative to get it back? NSB has said it costs $12 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e849	After hearing Hoksrud’s comments and answers earlier today, the representative should include Sahl in the evening prayer saying that the Progress Party must not come to power in that country. Then it's not just the night watch that gets worse. Then the Nordlandsban will probably be 'one saga only', for somewhere the Progress Party must take all the cuts they have made in their budgets. It was obvious that Hoksrud will take them in those parts of the country where there are not as many people as in the Oslo region. When it comes to the night watch, we have had a good dialogue with the representative about it before. It's a budgetary matter, and I can't answer that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e856	Almost all political parties have a rhetoric that goes on more road-to-road transport. The Council of State also mentioned it in its statement here today. When one at the same time wants to use the whole country and increase the value creation in the districts – it also does the Left, just so that I am not misunderstood – what concrete measures will the Council of State take to get these good intentions going, now that we know that heavy transport is increasing sharply?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e861	I understand well the need of the Left to clarify that they will also use the whole country. It doesn't always seem like that. When it comes to the growth of freight transport, it is a challenge. There's a strong growth of goods on the railway. We added a 450 million freight package to this year's budget. kr, which shall facilitate further growth. But we see that even with such an intensification as the government is now doing, the growth is so great that even if the growth of goods by rail is high, so is the growth of truck transport. There's only one way to go about it, and it's to intensify the extra bet on crossing tracks, and we're going to complete the terminals that we're doing, and build the terminal structure further out. This is how we can ensure the railway capacity to take the growth that I think should come – and that we should perhaps get even bigger than what's going on – but it's a big challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e870	It's not new that this Council of State is attacking the Progress Party, but it's new that you're actually doing it in reply to representatives of other parties. To follow up on the Nordics as a domestic market: the Council of State says that the Nordics are a domestic market, but Norway is a special domestic market. Is it the case that the economic benefits of operating beyond the borders of Norway contribute to strengthening the core activities of the NSB in Norway? Question no. 2: How does the Council of State feel that money can be provided for the construction and operation of the high-speed rail system when the Council of State itself says that there are fiscal considerations that make it impossible for the State to build enough roads without using tolls?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e879	To the first question, NSB activities are included in a group accounting, and as a result, it is left to strengthen other parts of the enterprise. So I guess that's right. When it comes to high-speed rail, the question of how to finance it has certainly not been considered so far. What we're doing now is getting a proper explanation of the base of the high-speed path. Of course, the next step must be to look at how it is to be financed. Some claim that it can be done without a government contribution. It'll be time to show. Time is also given to show – when one is going to make such a decision – how the fiscal situation is, whether one can increase the permissions sufficiently, for large contributions or for smaller contributions. These are hypothetical questions as long as we don't know enough about the basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e886	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e889	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government of Stoltenberg has set overall leadership and objectives for transport policy and for the railways and ownership of the NSB. The main objectives of transport policy are in line with the objectives of the NTP and are: improve road safety more environmentally friendly transport regional development efficient and accessible transport system for the whole country In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has stated: ‘The railway shall be an attractive, time-consuming, environmentally sound and good transport solution for persons and goods. In order to trigger the potential of this mode of transport, a significant strengthening is needed. This means that today's railway is upgraded and the development of double tracks, in particular around the largest cities, is given priority.NSB is to be developed as a state transport company both in passenger, freight and bus services.» The government will, among other things, take concrete action. increase railway investment in line with the decision of the majority of the population in the context of the treatment of NTP, which specifies that the major part of the investment will take place in the first part of the distance-to-road and the electricity charge for rail does not put more rail passenger services on the competitive end of privatisation and the outsourcing of the operational and maintenance tasks of the railway works for good train connections between the capitals of Scandinavia; The government has an active transport policy. All these specific points are being or have already been implemented. The NSB as a state transport company is an important instrument for achieving the overall objectives and implementing our transport policy. In addition, it is an important instrument in regional development, in environmental policy and in ensuring a collective offer to citizens also on non-profit-making sections. The Labour Party will have a long-term ownership that takes into account both the development of the company and the interests of society. More and more journeys by rail. In 2005, the train carried 52.5 million passengers, and every day there are more than 1600 trains in Norway. Only until and from Oslo more than 730 passenger trains depart each day, with more than 120000 passengers. If these passengers were to be transported by bus instead, we would have 2,500 more bus departures to and from Oslo every day, or about 100,000 more cars every day. On the Eastfold course, which I use, the growth of the last year has been formidable. There's less queue on Mossevejen and Ringvejen towards Oslo. One freight train can transport the same quantity of goods as 24 fully loaded wagons. When the number of freight trains on Norwegian sections of the track increases, it also provides safer roads. The growth of rail freight traffic is now higher than the total traffic growth, which means that the proportion of goods on the road is increasing. However, restrictions on both passenger and freight traffic are on the rail network. Investments in maintenance and development are urgently needed. Thus, the increased level of funding that the Government of Stoltenberg has prioritised for rail is essential to increase the competitiveness of the railway against other modes of transport. Passenger transport by train encounters strong competition from other means of transport. It is therefore very important how the NSB is perceived as a transport company with the customers. Everyone has an opinion of the NSB! Today, most customers have a positive view of the NSB. Success criteria are frequent departures, punctuality, safety, comfort and price. The government wants to contribute to this and has put particular emphasis on this in the new agreement for the purchase of passenger train services, and has, among other things. increased number of departures especially in the people-rich areas of the East where the train is an important transport service for commuters to and from Oslo. The NSB shall invest in several new local trains and locomotives over the next few years, which will improve the offer and comfort and facilitate the maintenance of trains. In addition, the Government has focused on universal design so that the offer is available to all. It is important in terms of materials, vending machines and stations. The EU is betting on the train and adding up to the transfer of road traffic to the railway. It takes place through the establishment of own rail corridors only for the carriage of goods, the establishment of high-speed passenger transport networks and the management of road-based transport. In addition, freight transport is forced into the railway through road transport charges. In this area too, we in Norway are fully in line with the EU through our rail investment. In the State budget, the government has prioritised increased appropriations for infrastructure, transport services from the NSB and better organisation of freight transport by rail. And in the autumn, the investigation will be on the potential for high-speed rail in Norway. There are great expectations for the railways in the transport policy that is followed by this government – and the will to invest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e951	St.meld. No 18 about the business of NSB AS was actually interesting reading. It shows that the NSB has been developing well in recent years. The NSB has delivered far better financial results than before, customer satisfaction has increased and punctuality has improved. The Progress Party wants this development to continue in order to allow the NSB to develop further in order to attract even more customers where the railway has the best prerequisites for competing with other modes of transport and carriers. One way to do this is to open up more competition. A good proof that this is possible is the success of launching the Gjøvik track, which we have heard many times today. And we want more of this! One of the proposals of the minority, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, is to make several sections of the route available for tender. The sections mentioned as examples are Kongsvingerbanen, Südlandsbanen and Tronderbanen. The stretch between Trondheim and Steinkjer, which is operated by the Trønderbahn, is a stretch that is suitable for this. The stretch is a typical commuter route. The train between Steinkjer and Trondheim is well used today, it has a good route offer, and customers are satisfied. But we think the offer can be even better. So the party wants tenders for, among other things. The tread by model of the Gjøvik track. We believe that rail diversity will improve with competition, as in the case of air and bus transport. With more players on the market, they can mutually challenge each other to become even better. Better costs will also be seen on each route and better knowledge of how to use this money in an even better way than today. When the previous government put Gjøvikbanen on offer, one of the objectives was that even more people would travel by train and ensure that travellers had a qualitatively equal or better offer for a fairer money – i.e. more trains. The aim was to contribute to a more positive development in train traffic and to ensure a more offensive and forward-looking rail with a focus on those travelling. And that goal has been achieved. The launch of the Gjøvik track has led to more departures, greater customer satisfaction and upgraded material. For several major stations, the track may refer to a traffic growth of 20-30 pst. Total for the whole Gjøvik track there is a traffic increase of 15 pst. Customer satisfaction has increased from 60 to 72 pst. on some routes. This is great in such a short time. And, amazingly enough, in addition to the fact that the track has actually become even better, even better than budgeted, you've managed to cut costs by 12 to 15 million. kr. Then I don't understand the argument as to why you can't do this anymore. I must be allowed to say that it is a pity that the government now categorically refuses to launch competition simply because it is a competitive outsourcing, and not because it makes the offer worse, because it is simply not possible to show. On the other hand, the government says that competitive outsourcing is interesting, but that's also the whole thing. So the NSB has to compete across the Nordic region – but open up competition in Norway, it doesn't work, and I think that's weird. When the Progress Party wants to spend money on the way, we get criticism to spend too much money. Now that we want to open up more competition in the railways to reduce costs, we get to criticise it too. Give it to the one who can! Hopefully the others can think a little bit better. It might be good to show that you have a little too little experience, but how do you get this experience without trying? You can, for example. look at the experience gained in Sweden, Denmark and Germany. Their experience shows the same positive development as we have had in Norway with the Gjøvik Railway. In the other countries, for example, the costs have been reduced by up to 20 p.m., while the offers have improved. They've got several open stations, lots of new materials, new routes and new operating models. What is also worth noting is that the countries that have started off with rail competition do not end up with it. They keep going, because that's good. We believe that outsourcing is the way to go. Maybe it's right to do this gradually to reap experiences along the way, but to say no just to say no, I think it's a little too tame.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e985	The President is of the opinion that the word 'jaggu' is not a parliamentary term, even if a representative's dialect is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e988	The NSB is the transport company of the State. In the Soria Moria statement, we write that we want to develop NSB in both passenger, bus and freight transport. We did that. There has been growth in all these sectors. Now that we know how important it is for the environment that we're doing more to use trains for transport, it's especially gratifying that NSB's subsidiary CargoNet can point to a growth in the number of load units of 50 pst. And as I said earlier, a freight train can transport the same amount as 24 fully loaded wagon combinations, and then everyone can calculate that this will result in reductions in wagon train traffic. NSB is a company whose income from the country amounts to 40 pst. the turnover, this being because, through an agreement with the State, the NSB operates an offer that is not economically viable but is of major social importance. We in the government parties therefore believe it is important that the NSB has an owner who has the first priority for society and its citizens. There's only one such owner, and that's the state. The NSB is organised as a share company and delivers dividends to the owner, but this dividend alone is not the reason why the Norwegian State is the owner of the NSB. This is because we have a comprehensive policy on mobility, accessibility, road safety, the environment and land resources. There are major societal gains in our focus. The Gjøvik railway is presented by many as a lighthouse for privatisation and tendering in the area of rail passenger services. I agree that the NSB has finally succeeded at Gjøvikbanen, and that it is great, but this is not because they are suddenly called NSB Tenders AS up there, and not just NSB. I have little faith in that. On a committee trip with the above-mentioned track, it was reported by the director of the company that these results could probably also have been achieved within the framework of the parent company NSB. The rapporteurs along the track have for many years been asking for the changes that have now taken place on the Gjøvik track. The fact that this is now working is no big surprise, but it does not show that the tender and privatisation work, so it is completely wrong to run that connection. It just shows that the NSB has not always been offensive enough and often has not listened to what local forces have meant. It is not that employees of the public suddenly wake up one day and are happier, and produce more, because they have received the tag ‘offer’ in the name of their company. But the prerequisite for happiness is not – to the Halleraker representative – to be a public employee. I think the NSB now has to look at the organisation and the focus on the audience that you have on the Gjøvik course, and learn from it in all parts of the organisation. One of the things that's been important in recent years is that NSB has been successful as a broad-based transport group. In addition to the core activity, which is a train, bus activity has also increased through the company Nettbuss. This has given, and gives, good co-operation gains. It will also be important in the years ahead, while continuing to focus on the train. This follows up the government's policy, where the railway is a priority area. Anyway, there's one game in this hall that doesn't see this win. The Progress Party shall submit a proposal for the sale of Nettbuss. Should Nettbuss have a private owner, there would be no restrictions on this company trying to outrun the train. Today we have a great cooperative effect. With the Progress Party, it would be chaos. We are not served by a bus company to build a capacity parallel to the train. This will lead to more pressure on the roads and to fewer travellers on the train. With its repeated cuts in this area, the party of progress shows that they are constantly not interested in passenger transport on trains, so I should probably not be surprised. I would also like to ask myself about the progress party representatives who have tabled proposal No. 5, if government sales and stock exchange listings, at all, know what the stock exchange is. Exchange listing of a company with 40 pst. of its turnover from the State, had probably given exciting shares. It's just as strange that they say at the same time that NSB is going to keep a larger share of its profits in the coming years. It will be a tempting offer to the new stock exchange partners! With those owner signals it is asked whether NSB would become the most popular company among the large investors. I suspect this to be another if-about-proposal from the Progress Party. Fortunately, rail policy in the country is now in the hands of someone who is interested in developing. The representative Hoksrud showed earlier today that he has not understood the difference between government purchases and money for investments. It's important to understand, if you're going to develop the train to become an attractive offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1017	To the previous speaker, we in the Progress Party know the logic and coherence of our own proposals. Some representatives from other parties in this room obviously need some adult training to see that context. I want to mention some numbers that give perspectives: the total travels approx. 36 million passengers via Norwegian airports. Avinor had a turnover of DKK 5 billion in 2005. Everything is user-funded. The NSB passenger train operations had nearly 49 million passengers in 2006. The country purchases passenger transport by train for NOK 1.6 billion in 2007. In addition, the railway works receive approx. $5.5 billion directly above the State budget. I guess that's a total of $7 billion. The State’s financial contribution to the railway is significant and much larger than the purchase of passenger train services from the NSB alone. Therefore, it is important to focus on what society gets out of this significant subsidisation. The Progress Party believes it is important to continue the competitive outsourcing of passenger train operations and to make it better for customers and, at the same time, more efficient, so that government purchases can also be reduced. It becomes a strange paradox when the Government blesses the Nordic strategy as a domestic market for the NSB, while competition as a principle is not accepted in Norway. This is where the NSB should be protected. It is also a paradox when the railway company has to choose a bus as a strategic bet area. At the same time, there is a reminder that in many areas and for many people, neither bicycle nor train is an alternative to the transport of persons or goods. The Party considers that it is important that the competitive advantages of the railway should be optimised. We believe the railway's clear best competitive advantage in terms of long distances is freight traffic. Transport production in tonnes/km is increasing sharply, almost 20 pst. from 2003 to 2005. Demand is increasing. The cooperation between truck operators/collectors and CargoNet provides good products and is requested. From November this year, eight container trains will run daily between Bergen and Oslo. Line capacity has exploded. This is mentioned in the NSB business plan 2007-2011, which is available in the case. This means that fewer passenger trains provide more freight trains. Several freight trains release road capacity by moving goods by road by trailer on rail. In other words, it is efficient and coordinated transport. The NSB itself speaks warmly for bus-based passenger transport and underlines the need for ‘bus operators to manage market-based product development and innovation, as the express bus offers are examples of’. The express bus offer, as we all know, covers Norway across and across. It is a comprehensive offer, confirming the competitive advantage of the bus in terms of passenger transport over long distances. In the case of the major cities, the NSB itself points out that there are too few collective fields on the access roads to them. Co-operation of road for public transport based on buses is a solution that the Progress Party fully agrees with, even when the NSB points to the importance of this. All parties, except the Advance Party, are united in their great belief in high-speed rail in Norway. Here the money is as loose as the speed is assumed to grow. How speed can be increased when the high-speed train often has to stop to collect enough passengers is a mystery. Equally enigmatic is the mention of the financing of a new railway concept. Here it's at least 150 billion kroner. The money seems to be as loose as the money for the Olympic Winter Games. The Progress Party prioritises high speed on today's rail network. The NSB business plan runs until 2011, the first year of the next national transport plan. I remind you of the railway system’s core network investigation, which points to great opportunities, great ambitions and large investments, of 80 billion DKK – 100 billion. Governments even talked about active state ownership and using NSB as a tool in transport policy. She has also pointed out many times how important it is that we get good coordination when we roll and create a new national transport plan. Then it is a mystery that the NSB does not select a more active role in the development of public transport in the major cities. In Bergen the development is in progress, but the state, as the owner of the NSB, has chosen a repatriated and passive attitude. It is left to local actors to develop this, rather than actively ensuring coordination of the offer, by bringing the NSB actively on the ground. It's a mystery, based on the statements of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1048	I have participated in many rail debates in Stortinget. Very often, there have been debates that have been marked by negative references to railway activities and by the challenges of getting more people to travel by rail. Today there's no reason to be negative. Railways in Norway and NSB are going well. Negative development is reversed. Freight traffic is increasing and passenger traffic is increasing — yes, it has actually increased by almost 5 pst. from 2003 to 2005. Last year's policy works. Let's continue the policy that works, and make sure that there is even more rail traffic! A point has been made that the State has many different roles in the railway sector. Yeah, that's right. The state owns the infrastructure, the state owns the transport company NSB, the state is the regulator, and the state is the buyer of transport services. It is important to see the roles separately, but at the same time there is also a point to see the roles in context when implementing a comprehensive railway policy. In the debate today, many have mentioned the Gjøvik Railway. It's deciduous the section of track that's been the most mentioned today. It's kind of the right-hand rescue plank, I feel. Tenders are the blessing, and as a result there was an increase in frequency in 2006, it is claimed. Let's be so honest that we admit that it works well on the Gjøvik track today – fortunately. It's a good organization, and people are happy. However, the reason why the route offer increased in 2006 was that the route offer was significantly reduced a few years in advance. When one compares the current route offer with the route offer before the significant reduction, the route offer is about the same level. As I said, it works well, but it has nothing to do with the offer. The climate is changing. Environmental aspects are now here. The majority of the Committee on Transport and Communications notes that it is important from an environmental point of view to get more people on trains. Bård Hoksrud of the Progress Party said that today's debate is somewhat demeaning that it is 'in line with time' when the majority underlines the environmental advantage of the railway. Yeah, it's in line with the time to bet on the railway. It's just the Progress Party in Norway that doesn't understand it. It's more Progress Party doesn't understand. In today's debate there has been a talk about the NSB bus division. There's no bus division in the NSB. Netbuss is a separate share company, in fact the third largest bus company in the Nordic region. It is one of the largest carriers in Norway and also operates in Sweden and Denmark. NSB's fine. Let's continue the policy that works! The goal must be to get even more people to travel by train and to get even more goods from road to rail. Another important framework condition for the NSB is the extension of the network, the infrastructure, with new lines, with new crossing tracks and with new terminals. There will be a hand bill for the transport company NSB, all the time when the rail network in large parts of Norway today has been decommissioned in capacity terms. The stork will join the principles of Oslopackak 3. This will be a historic road and public transport operation in Oslo and Akershus. It is groundbreaking that we are now for the first time in history to spend money from the bombing also for the operation of public transport. From 2008 we will receive 500 million annually. kr – there is a lot of money – to be used for the operation of the bus, boat, T-Bahn, tram and trains. Then the NSB must be able to increase capacity in the Oslo area. When we finally get more money for rail transport, it'll be too bad if we don't get this done, because NSB can't increase capacity because of lack of material, lack of drivers or what it might be. We must not come there at all!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1069	The red-green government is really betting on the railway in 2007. The railway budget is now NOK 7.1 billion. That's 15.3 pst. increase and higher than in 2006. The operation of the NSB depends on a good infrastructure to realise the train’s potential. In the 2007 budget, investment is increasing in particular. Investments in the line increased by 50.3 pst. from 2006 to 2007. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the majority government has set the following overall objectives for the ownership of the NSB group: «NSB shall be developed as a state transport company both in passenger, freight and bus services.» It is important to have a strong and well-functioning railway in Norway. The majority indicate that good collective provision and the transfer of goods from road to road are important to reduce social problems related to the environment and road safety. The railway has a competitive power when large quantities of goods are to be carried over long distances. The Communication refers to the growth of combined transport in Norway and the fact that CargoNet is now mainly in combined transport. The aim is to get a greater part of the freight from road to road. In order to succeed, the development of double tracks, crossing tracks and freight terminals must continue to a large extent. In Hedmark we are very happy on the train – where the train goes. There is a need to add double tracks from the Gardermoen to Hamar to exploit the Dovrebanen, which, of course, carries quite a few commuters, for the benefit of the passengers. The trajectory actually increased by 16 pst. in February of this year in relation to last year. The runway would have been shut down if the right had got what they wanted in the last period. There should be a reward for the fact that there are now many departures on the Rørosbanen and that people flock to. It is desirable to get more of the heavy transport away from rv. 3 and over to the railway. It will reduce the number of accidents on rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox As we've been in a line here before, the Bondevik II government put down the Oslo–Stockholm route over Kongsvinger, but on January 7th, the red-green government, with Navarsete State Council at the head, was able to reopen this stretch, which is very important. The Swedish railway company, Statens Järnvägar, can now report that there has been an increase in Kongsvingerbahn by 20 pst. since January. And so this happens without it being privatized. Strange, but I'm happy. It proves that it is a good thing to create an efficient public railway. The route offer and the price are the main factors affecting people's travel. These factors therefore need to be focused on. So I hope that the situation for the employees of the NSB now settles. I hope the public staff have noticed that the special representative Halleraker thought that people were much happier just because they got a job in a private business. I use the railway quite a lot, and I can confirm to the representative Halleraker that there are a lot of happy and gentle people there. He should try it. So there was criticism here from the Progress Party that the NSB had purchased the wrong train equipment. Then I think the NSB should talk to the representative Tenden, because in a debate earlier this week about Lysaker station, the left-wing representative could tell in detail what kind of train NSB was going to buy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1096	The speakers who have the floor hereafter shall have a speaking time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1099	It is always nice to take part in and listen to rail debates, especially when you get new information, such as from the Fall now, about the Kongsvingerbahn going to Stockholm. That was new to me. In the reign of the Bondevik II government, there was a lot of positive happening, while it now sounds as if it was almost the black door for the railway. The largest mainland project in Norway until the Snow White Development started was the expansion of Asker-Sandvika, and as train commuter from Drammen for over ten years, I have to say that it has been a pleasure to experience the development NSB has had in recent years, after the Bondevik II government has invested in the large expansion, after the Bondevik II government has made sure that the thousands of commuters on the Westfold Railway got a new signal system, got new tracks in Westfold, and after the train started to go on a route. It's amazing how quality has improved on that product after the Bondevik II government invested as enormously as they did. Then I hear the representative Myrli, who remembers the old days and the railway debates then, tell me that everything was so bad and difficult, and that it was so much negative. Yes, it was when the Workers' Party crashed, that you had these problems. It was bad times then. But now there has been a huge investment on the railways, which fortunately continues the new government. It's positive. My point is that this is getting too black-and-white. I now contributed a little to it myself, but it gets a little too stupid when representatives of the sitting government almost stand up as prophets and say that now everything is going so well, look at 2007. Okay, we're three months into the new year, we don't know how it goes, but we know that the NSB has got new material. It took three to four years before local genes who walk between Kongsberg and Eidsvoll started, because they could not drive through the sports of Rome. There were many losses that were made. A major error was made, but this has been corrected. I've seen it for myself. I look down at the Sundland railway workshop in Drammen from my house. These trains have stood there. They've been there for two or three years, but now they're on, now they're going fine. It took time. The signature trains were a big lift, but they couldn't drive as fast as they were supposed to, because the curve was too rough on the Sørlandsbanen, the wheel shaft fell off, etc. Do not come and tell me that this has been a black-and-white image, where state operations, state governance, have been the only blessing. The previous government modernised the NSB and gave the NSB a new management and a new director, who is offensive, who wants to see beyond his own borders, and who competes in the Nordic region. Also give the NSB competition in Norway! It turns out that things are getting better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1115	It's quite unique when the representative from the Right, Halleraker, travels land and beach around and talks about the excellence of the Right in terms of railway operations. There is also a danger that if the citizens once receive government power, the height of the fall may be quite high. So at the same time, the representative of Greece admits that you see the world a little different, and I think that's positive. It was actually so that the railway in Norway was getting confused, because under the previous government there was almost no investment on the railway at all. We have rightly said that this is a historic railway operation. 50 pst. increase in investments in railway lines in the 2007 budget must be historic. I see that both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the vote refer to a historic bet under the Bondevik II government. The only investment that was historic was the launching of railway routes and the maintenance work of the Railway Agency. The latter actually resulted in redundancies and the loss of workers and competences in the railway works, which were also in the process of losing safety. In my opinion, it was scandalous. That's what bets are. If the new government had not stopped this, it could have gone quite wrong. Many trade union workers were sent out into the extreme darkness. The Council of State shall be commended for having demonstrated the power of action in this matter. Railway operations in the State budget include: on freight terminals, crossing tracks, double tracks Sandnes – Stavanger, full speed in the development of new double tracks in the west corridor, construction start of the ski station this year and good development not least on the Nordlandsbahn, where freight traffic is going very well. Remote control is continued and double tracks at Eiterstrom south of the Sea mean more efficient this route, which has a lot to say also for the environmental profile. A strong NSB is a government instrument to make more people travel collectively, which is important in the context of the climate change we are facing. Finally, I agree with the representative Jan Sahl that it is now an advantage to move on to another vehicle material on the day trip on the Nordlandsbanen, that we must get rid of that Agenda train. But there's one thing the representative Jan Sahl didn't say – and if I don't remember correctly, it was that when it came to the sleeping car offer from Lake Mo in Rana and Kristiansand, it was actually in Bondevik's budget for 2006. We admit that we did not get it fixed. It's an important thing, I think the representative Jan Sahl and I can agree on that, but it was actually a stumbling block to the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1128	Five minutes goes by quickly, and there are some points I didn't include in my previous post, which I would like to have included in the debate. I want to stick to the NSB. It's the NSB and the owner's message from the NSB we're discussing today. The financial result for 2006 provides a return on the capital of the owner above the requirement imposed by the owner. Wages and salaries have increased within all areas of activity. It's a result I'm very happy with. It is also a result of the fact that the NSB has had an increase in both passenger and freight transport. The switch has been completed and has resulted in more punctual trains, better regularity and more satisfied customers. The safety of traffic in the group has also developed positively, and good developments continue in 2007. It is crucial for the positive development of profitability that the NSB will continue to work in the future with efficiency measures to further strengthen competitiveness, so that the group can increase its market position. Compensation for government purchases of services has increased in the last ten years. The new framework agreement between the State and the company, on the other hand, provides for an increase in production of up to 15 pst. within the same financial framework. This still imposes high standards of efficiency, product development and increased customer base. Increased production also means that the NSB must be active in order for the enterprise to have enough pilots. There is no reason for a not to operate as efficiently throughout the enterprise as a subsidiary operating the Gjøvikbana. In order to ensure stable framework conditions for the NSB, I add to the message a continuation of defined returns requirements and exchange policies. In the formation of the company, it was assumed that the ownership capital component would amount to about 40 pst. This was done to ensure a financial position consistent with the requirements imposed on the development of the group. I am busy with the ability of the Governing Board to make the necessary investments to ensure both the long-term and the good development of the group. The country now has a government that actively invests in transportation and the train. The NSB is and shall be a company providing good, modern train services to required passengers and supporting growth in environmentally friendly public transport. Speaking of Gjøvikbana: The representative of the Fall took my point there, but I want to repeat it: We have increased – not only increased, we have doubled – the capacity of the Kongsvingerbahn without any competitive delay. People are huge. That's 20 pst. more than the forecast was added to take the train. The Stockholm train, which the previous government laid down, is reopened and is so far a success. ‘Nice on the fjord root’, but we have great faith in a good development. So we bet on the railroad, and people see it and well to travel by train.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1146	Three points in three short minutes. The Nordics as a domestic market: there is a rather reserved recommendation provided by the Ministry. I quote from page 26: ‘The Ministry of Transport has previously assumed that the NSB’s foreign exposure must be based on a prudent approach. The Ministry maintains this strategy and would stress that it should apply to the entire core business.» It's carefully said quite limiting. It's a kind of anxiety strategy when you say yes to the Nordics as a home market. So to the Bergen City Railway, linked to the active ownership and use of NSB: My call to many parties, but especially to the Minister of Transport, is that you use the tools you have to develop the collective service in passenger transport in the big Norwegian town of Bergen. There is also a project in progress in which the municipality tuts of farms – if it is a parliamentary expression, President – tuts of farms themselves without having any special competence, while the NSB and the railway works, which have the competence, have been kept far away. Use the power of control to get this on track! That is my call to the Minister of Transport. Finally, the third point, which I take the opportunity to address also in this debate: we need to get better statistics on transport. We need to get a transport statistics that have more unambiguous and clarified concepts and that allow for a good and correct comparison of what is happening in energy consumption and environmental emissions in different transport sectors and in different transport modes. Among other things, we need to have a clear sort of passenger transport and freight transport respectively. Today we don't. Today we have state tic where apples and pears are compared quite freely and uncritically. Here, the NSB contributes some environmental calculations on how environmentally friendly it is to travel by train, which in any case can be discussed in parliamentary terms. The reason is that we do not have clear and good statistics on transport for these two key concepts, energy consumption and emissions related to production, respectively tonne-kilometres and passenger-kilometres. My call to the Minister of Transport here today is to address this problem and to ensure that we get clear and unambiguous statistics on transport. Then we can also have more proper and more sobering debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1162	The President has found out that the word 'tutle' can pass.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1165	With little time in a big matter, it can quickly happen that you stumble a bit into words and lose important points, and therefore I have taken the word quite briefly. At the end of my post, when it comes to falling into words, I was concerned about the positive that happened to the Gjøvik track, and the consequences the NSB would draw out of it. It is important to stress that we are concerned that the NSB should exploit both the efficiency and market potential, even without competitive outsourcing. I would also like to stress that the Christian People's Party has no ideological relationship with the issue of competitive outsourcing. On the contrary, like what was said by the Center Party, we are very pragmatic in this matter. We are open to competitive new routes if it is obvious that this could lead to increased public transport. That's why we're going to follow closely the development of the NSB in the future, which is very positive, and which shows an increasing curve, and therefore we're not going to be able to compete at first. What can happen in the future, I won't predict. The Christian People's Party has a pragmatic relationship with whether or not it will subsequently be put off for competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1174	It may be a little over the top of a man my age to place himself among the railway's more potent lovers, but it is, after all, a name that is used on us who regularly use the railway, and who like to speak hot for the excellence of this means of transport. There is a joyous increase in both passenger and freight traffic, which gives rise to optimism on behalf of the railway. I'm pretty sure that the key to further success is further investment in infrastructure and the development of double tracks, as this government is now adding up. In this respect, I have to add that the previous government came out of the last four-year period with a lag of NOK 2.5 billion in railway investment. This is probably what the citizens in the position call the success of the Bondevik government. I am quite convinced that the regularity, the fact that the train is coming and going when it is to be, is also essential for the further success of the railway. Every time a delay occurs, it helps to weaken the reputation of the NSB. The routing times are essential, but I have to warn against adding up to such a large slack in the schedule that there are actually waiting breaks in the liver after obtaining regularity figures. It must be possible to create a tighter route, not least on the track section that I usually use, namely the Westfold track. Let me also bring a never-ending heart attack. Some should eventually feel sorry for a particular switch on the Skøen station! Then I'm convinced that the minority in this room hasn't been in England in the last few years, because as the publicity of the outsourcing is, they can't possibly have gained experience from the country that's gone the farthest in privatising rail operations abroad. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1188	It was the post from Tor-Arne Stroem that made me take the word again. He claimed that I traveled land and beach around and talked about the railway. That's absolutely right. I do that with great enthusiasm and great pleasure. It's really fun to discover how the innovation that we've brought to the right of squares within the high-speed concept has engaged, and that people now have their eyes up to make it really possible. So it's been a great joy. I'm not going to stick under the chair that the sitting state council has also taken very important steps to get this on the field. But the good stream was unfortunately quite inconceivable in his post when he described what I claimed in my post, as very inconceivable and faulty. There's got to be a correction. In that context, I must say that in the case of the black-and-white description that he made there, he could perhaps learn a little bit from Greece's invitation to be a little bit more tidy. It is a fact that, until then, it was the greatest railway effort in modern times, and it stood for Bondevik. Thus, rail investment increased from SEK 4.8 billion in 2001 to DKK 6.4 billion in 2005. There was an increase of almost 500 million. kr to passenger transport services. So the starting point was $1 billion. Investments increased by nearly 600 million. kr. That's how I could keep listing up, so I think we're going to be a little honest and admit that there's actually been positive things before, too, although of course it's good that we agree on a continued bet. The success we see, at least so far in 2007 – a year just two and a half months old – cannot have anything to do with the 2007 budget. Of course, the reasons must be longer in time. That's where I think we should be honest. We largely agree on very much in this matter. I think NSB can enjoy that, and I think we're going to have a positive development in the NSB in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1199	I think it has been an interesting debate. What you can see is that a lot of people now have become the railway. To the last speaker, Halleraker, I just have to say welcome after, because the Right has been, to a large extent, a road party, while they are now focusing on the railway and seeing the importance of the railway. The more that it does, the better it is. Otherwise, the starting point for this debate was a message of ownership. The real starting point was to discuss how the country should manage its ownership. I note that this is still two major issues. The only thing is that one should go ahead with putting up competition, and the other is whether the State should retain ownership. The last thing I think is absolutely crucial. Through ownership, we can make demands on the good economic operation of the group, we can demand customer friendliness, punctuality and a secure transport supply. We can demand that the NSB help to strengthen business and efficiency by developing modern, efficient freight transport, and we can exploit the synergies of being a broad-based concept, such as being an attractive job, with skilled and service-based employees. We've pointed to a number of other important societal tasks that, through our ownership, we can make sure that the NSB takes care of. By selling the NSB, we're destroying all these possibilities, so the argument that the state is going to sell itself into the NSB, I have a big problem understanding. When it comes to postponing competition, I have to say that to me this is not an ideology. As I said before, the web is already open to eleven companies. There is no capacity for that much more. However, it is wrong to continue with the launch of competition now, because, in my opinion, there are major synergies and network benefits with a comprehensive production of passenger transport, which the NSB now has. A train network with a skilled operator is better able to create a healthy customer service. So it's been talking a little bit about black-and-white and about the previous government had a historic bet versus ours. Halleraker referred to numbers that are not directly wrong in any way, but I thought it was a little fun to check them, as he said they were in a public document. What Halleraker does is he takes on the income of the 2002 budget, which was just Stoltenberg's proposal, and which the Bondevik government then carried on. If we look isolated on the budgets provided by the Bondevik government, the bet is over the years 1 pst. on operation and maintenance, 3,6 pst. on investments and 21,5 pst. from the purchase of NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1212	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2497]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1229	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1246	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1263	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1280	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1297	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1314	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1331	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1348	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1365	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2499]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1386	In connection with the debate on State-Church, it is also natural that we discuss the conditions for public ceremonies. How can we give the bourgeois marriages a better framework, so that they become more equivalent to the church ceremonies. Civil marriages and cohabitation have long been recognised in Norway. From the history of justice we can read: «Religious cooperation between unmarried people was partly recognised by the Civil Law, as far as the relationship was open and comprehensible. [[...]] And if such an adulterous adulterous union had been in existence for 20 years, according to the law of the Gulating, it went into marriage by itself. The Danes, on the other hand, were more liberal, and according to the Jyske law «a single woman who has lived with a man for three years and who has apparently slept with him and who has advised of the keys of the house shall be regarded as a wife.» [[...]] Whether marriages have been a public or church act has varied throughout history. Those who were civilly consecrated during the Catholic period in Norway were the Catholic priests. The pope in Rome clearly told the priests not to marry, but they did not, as they never did, have the marriage of the Norwegian priests. However, the priest's wife could not call herself a vicar, but a housekeeper, counsellor, or concubine, even though the church meeting at the time insisted on calling these wives the more demeaning word frill. Martin Luther felt that marriage was a secular matter that did not concern the church. Hence, after the Reformation, it was common for the priest to bless only the bride and groom. The engagement, on the other hand, was a promise the couple gave each other with the priest present. Between engagement and marriage it was the priest, the lieutenant, or the futen who would see to it that the two "did not care about each other" as it was hot. That's a task that's hardly natural to transfer to borrowers or the tax state today. Later, church weddings became the only legal one, but first on the church steps. It was only in 1685 that the bride and groom began to give each other their yes in front of the altar. Today a church wedding bride and groom gives the opportunity to be married before the wedding party on Saturday, in a beautiful church room where friends and family get to experience the event with the bride and groom. A common civil marriage usually takes place one day at a time, in a small room, where only the nearest ones are given the opportunity to participate. Soren writes Laila Ingebrichtsen in Drammen, saying that the wedding room in Drammen is worn down and ugly, and it lies between the courts in the warehouse. And she says, ‘Those who marry must go between witnesses and perhaps armed police officers. When I can't offer proper frames, I think it's almost flat." Reading a public wedding ritual takes two minutes and 36 seconds, and many weddingrs say they're trying to drag the ceremony so it's going to be a little bit longer. Many like this simple frame, while others are looking intensely for a person with wedding rights who can carry out a larger ceremony on a Saturday. I understand that judges cannot use the time to make big weddings on Saturday. The Court of Justice has many important tasks. It is the People's Register that is trying today the conditions for marriage between the North. Today, therefore, the marriage mates serve only as seremoni masters. Do we really need our judges to do such a task? Soren writes Øyvind Beautiful City in Trondheim saying that he wants to concentrate on complex legal issues instead. He says, ‘We are today quite a number of judges who believe that the task of implementing marriages can be taken out of the courts. This can be done at least as well in favour of others in the way it is done today in the courts.’ [[...]] Therefore, it is natural to discuss whether we should transfer the right of marriage to the municipalities, as they have done in Sweden. The municipalities can then take over the wedding rooms available to the courts. In addition, larger premises can be made available on Saturdays, such as: Town Hall, for those who want a bigger ceremony than today. Proposals for wedding rituals for longer ceremonies can also be developed so that those who want a non-church wedding get a better offer than today. In Sweden, many people think it is an honor to be appointed as a public wedding planner. It could be a retired judge, the old rapporteur, or maybe a former bailiff. I'm sure a lot of people could think of the job as a public wedding party. There may be important and interesting tasks ahead of each of us if the Minister of Justice is considering transferring the right of marriage to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1434	The judges in the courts of jurisdiction are, as the interpellant is involved, attached to the marriage authority by virtue of Section 12 of the Marriage Act by virtue of being notary publicus. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality is responsible for the marriage law. My response has therefore been drawn up in cooperation with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. But as Minister of Justice, I now want to focus on the issue of marriages as part of the tasks of the courts. The question of moving marriages out of the courts has been raised on previous occasions. The role of the Court of Justice in the context of marriages was taken up in NOU 1999:22 Courts of First Instance – The functions and structure of the Court of First Instance, where the Structural Committee stood by the fact that the tasks of examining marriage and partnership conditions should remain with the courts, but that other specifically entrusted civil servants, lawyers or the like should also be allowed to enter into civil marriages. The Ministry of Justice expressed its opinion in St.meld. No 23 for 2000-2001, the Court of First Instance in the future, inter alia: that the holding of the wedding ceremony is not a necessary legal task and may be transferred to others, such as: municipal officials, as in Denmark. But I want to add, as the interpellant also had, that there are many important court tasks waiting today to be resolved. After all, many view the core tasks of Norwegian courts as being judicial bodies, which take a stand in important civil matters, not least in criminal matters. At the same time, it has been argued by others that it is important that the courts have wide contacts, as well as a task portfolio in addition to the judiciary, which helps to maintain both local ties and to ensure the operational basis for maintaining a very decentralised court structure. It has been used as an argument for retaining these types of tasks in the courts, only in such a way that it has also been invoked. In the context of amendments to the 2004 Marriage Act, which introduced mandatory civic testing of the marriage conditions of the population registers, municipalities were also assessed. However, proposals to transfer marriage competence to municipalities were not proposed by the Ministry of Children and Family. In Denmark, civil marriages are carried out by the municipalities by the chairman of the municipal board, i.e. the mayor, or by a member of the magistrate or a chairman of the electorate. In Sweden, where the interpellant was also involved, civil marriages are held either by judges in the District Court or by specially appointed civil marriages. The special commitments are appointed by the county councils, which correspond to the county councillors. The time and place of the wedding is determined by the weddingr in consultation with the bridesmaids. The question of transferring marriage competence to other than district courts raises at least interesting and fundamental questions about what tasks the court should have, both today and in the future. There has been a trial in the courts, which has gone on, among other things. have moved out the task of questioning and the role of public prosecutors, which has recently helped to clean up the judicial activities of the courts. I have to say that it is more than enough of the tasks for the courts to take up, also in order to maintain decentralised structures, so that one does not depend on performing these tasks in order to maintain the operation of the courts. For many, the courts may appear as the closest ones to stress and point out that marriage is a legal act. And if marriage is to be taken out of court, it's important to find other people and better solutions. It should go after two lines. Firstly, there should be power and authority behind the act that a marriage actually does, that it marks both seriousness, ceremony and celebration, and secondly, it should also help to get a better practical framework around the marriages, which the interpellant is also concerned with: a ceremony that appeals to more, sites that are better suited, and not least that you get a better flexibility both on time and – I would say – on the spot than what you experience today. A wedding is an incredible event for those who participate, and we can sign it on all of us who have tried it both once and twice. I am concerned that a civil marriage should be a worthy and good alternative to the church, and that the ceremony must be a fine event. If marriages are to be moved out of the courts, the option should involve a more flexible offer than the current system, both in terms of time and place of marriage. At the same time, an alternative should represent an equally solemn or more solemn offer for the wedding ceremony, although I have to defend a little bit of what is happening in the court sector. In fact, we have recently, through the establishment of many new houses, put in place many very well-suited and unusually fine wedding rooms, so that there is not only poverty out in the courts in relation to this either. In view of this, in consultation with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, I will now review the legislation on who will carry out marriages and, in the light of the inter-pellant's initiative, assess whether there is a basis for making changes to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1453	I am very pleased with the Minister of Justice's answer. There are many people who think that if you transfer or withdraw the right to marry from the court, it becomes less solemn. But I think the wish among those who are going to marry is really the exact opposite. Because ceremonies are important in our lives, many of those who marry bourgeoisly, at least those who marry bourgeoisly for the first time, want a more solemn public framework around the conclusion of the marriage vow. They want to have their family present, they want to have their friends present, and they want to make it a great and solemn ceremony. That is why I believe that getting married in the City Hall, perhaps with the rapporteur as a wedding planner, perhaps the old gentleman, will provide a more solemn framework. This question is of great interest to the bride and groom. If you don't want a church wedding, then an eternal hunt begins for someone who can make a wedding on a Saturday. It is not appropriate, in my opinion, that only lawyers are assigned this task. Knowing a lawyer shouldn't make it easier to get a decent and solemn ceremony on Saturday compared to if you don't. So, my criticism of the bourgeois marriages, I would say, is not going to hit the court, because I understand that the court has a lot of important tasks. I do not want in any way to criticize the court that will not prioritize large and extensive ceremonies on Saturdays. The Court of Justice has enough of other tasks. But I think many of those who have been present at a civil marriage in Sweden, that is, it's a more solemn ceremony than what we get with the Norwegian system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1462	I also mean, when we're going to start a process of finding alternatives, we're going to have it in mind that we want good ceremonies in our lives. We're going to take that seriously. I would say that many of the courts that today carry out good wedding ceremonies have actually also been able to extend some of the ceremony beyond the measured minutes. It's not forbidden to read poems in the courts when you're four, and so do something more of it. But, as the interpellant says, it's relatively far from the core tasks of Norwegian courts. I do not believe that we are dependent on the fact that lawyers are going to make weddings. In this context, and also in some other tasks lawyers are often assigned, I think we have an excessive belief in what they are better than others to do. We are not dependent on the courts to carry out this task – because we also have alternative marriages today – but we can have something to learn from how to practice it in the courts. We are going to go along with the further work that is now under way, that the courts have found solutions to a good deal of practical problems that have created good ceremonies as well. It is my hope that we will be able to contribute to lifting these ceremonies, making it better, making it a celebration. Then we're left to the individual to figure out who you're getting married to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1471	As a bourgeois firm, I learned that all the world's cultures celebrate important brand days in a person's life. It happens differently from place to place, from religion to religion. But all societies mark ceremonially when a child is born, when he passes from childhood to adult life, when he chooses life and when he dies. In the past, I was of the opinion that baptism and confirmation in particular were unique Christian customs. They are, of course, in substance, by the fact that the ritual involves a personal relationship with God between the baptized and the confirmed. But both in indigenous peoples and in the big world religions, we find similar customs, but with different content. Wedding ceremonies and tombs have also traditionally had a strong religious character in Norway – at least in the last few hundred years, according to Huitfeldt. Many people don't know about alternatives. It is not until the last 20-30 years that civil marriage has increased somewhat. That it is is largely due to tradition, but also to the fact that a civil marriage has a form and content many experience as too scarce and too simple. The church wedding gives the couple the opportunity to be consecrated before the wedding party on Saturday, in a beautiful church room where friends and family get to experience the event with the bride and groom. A normal civil marriage is a day-to-day treat, in a little room where only the nearest ones are allowed to attend. Many like a simple frame, while others are looking intensely for a person with wedding rights who can make a bigger wedding on a Saturday. It requires good contacts around the country's janitor offices. It goes without saying that knowing a lot of lawyers will be a great advantage when you're in such a situation. It is commendable that Huitfeldt's representative addresses this issue in Stortinget, and I hope that as a result we will have a change, which indicates a lot after the Minister of Justice's reply. In my opinion, this is a question of more relationships. It's about giving all people, regardless of their life's vision, an equivalent offer on important brand days. Today, people who are not religious are being discriminated against. It's about everyone, regardless of background and contact network, getting to know each other in suitable surroundings, with the guests you want to attend, and at a time that's natural for marking and celebrating such a big event. It's also about people being given the opportunity to choose where and how they want the marriage, and that it's increasingly being based on their own way of life, and not on the framework conditions around the marriage. In other words, society has to take seriously the cultural responsibility it has for these brand days, as we see it in other cultures and nations. The solution is to extend the right to consecrate by covering more than today's Zorenics, Captains and Ambassadors, as well as leaders and priests of different religious communities. The public should, therefore, appoint convicts and women who can relieve the sorencies. The ceremony we are talking about is not so extensive that it should require legal examination. Moreover, it is no longer the courts who are trying out the conditions of marriage, as the Minister of Justice has also explained. Today it's the people's register that has that task. Therefore, there are no longer strong professional reasons why the courts should continue to have the right of marriage. The time has come to take this grip now. We are in the middle of a discussion about the relationship between state and church, and the discussion about these ceremonies is also at home in that debate, especially because it is important for people to feel the security of these services, including those who want it to happen in the state church domain. Whatever the state church question ends with, this is the opportunity to give the entire population, regardless of life's views, an equivalent offer in the context of marriage or partnership. Like the interpellant, I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice is taking this matter seriously, and that in the future we will have a better system than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1492	In connection with the ongoing discussion on the relationship between state and church, many people say that you don't notice in everyday life that you have a state church. And you probably don't. But in the situations in life where there are important events to take place, there are a lot of people who notice this well. One is in connection with weddings. The ecclesiastical ceremony is considered to be more worthy, greater and more serious than the bourgeois ceremony. But we have even greater distinction at the ceremonies when we see what we offer at the tomb. It's not the topic of this interpellation, but let me nevertheless point to certain parts of today's practice. Today, if you are not a member of a religious and life-view society when you go away, the family has no rights attached to a local or to a person who can carry out a ceremony. The family must then go out and rent rooms, and they must also find a person who can carry out a worthy ceremony. It's not worth it. It's not worth living in a society where getting good ceremonies at important events in life depends on being a member of a religious and life-view society. Many of those who are members of a religious and life-view society also want bourgeois ceremonies. Among those who marry today, there are many who are members of the Church of State. The Court of Justice today four many who belong to different religious communities, so the need for civil ceremonies will, in my view, increase in the future, and then it is important that we give them a worthy framework. I thank the Minister of Justice for his presentation on this matter, and hope we can get a better arrangement for civil marriages in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1503	Several have not asked for the word in the interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1521	On different visits and different contacts with parts of the healthcare system, I have been described as a situation in the field of ICT development, which poses major challenges. For example, it shall not be possible to send electronic records directly between central hospitals such as the Rikshospitalet and Ullevål University Hospital. It is not possible to send journals, even when it is urgent, from the Law Office in Oslo to Ullevål for emergency treatment there. It is a local hospital that cannot be sent directly to the central university hospitals, for example. between the hospital in Narvik and the university hospital in Tromsø. There are problems in sending epicrisis and journals electronically from hospitals to e.g. nursing homes or rehabilitation centres, which could take a long time before the necessary information about the patient is available. It has also emerged through the media and elsewhere that it is difficult, and in many places not possible, to send information between x-ray laboratories and hospitals or between other parts of the healthcare system, so that much money is spent on sending it in paper versions with taxis and other means of delivery. Even within the individual hospital there may be problems with electronic communication between departments when patients are circulating. These are just a few examples of situations I've been described, but they can be serious. People live more and more in different places in the country – they are mobile in terms of work and education, etc. For patients it may mean that when you are in an acute state of illness, it may be a risk to life that you cannot immediately obtain patient information where you are being treated. Even if an intervention is planned, it may be too slow to obtain the necessary patient information. There may also be shortcomings in the records because mixing systems are still in place. Hospitals have e.g. partially introduced electronic records, but not fully implemented, so that some information is also contained in paper records, part of memory notes, etc. As I said, it may take too much time before the epicrisis, patient information, get back into the community health service or into the rehabilitation institutions where the patient is to be after treatment. It may also be a problem for patients that the system we have today, which is a hybrid of paper versions and electronic systems, does not have strict standards and quality assurance. It may also lead to a weaker level of data protection for patients than a highly developed common system of strict standards for logging in, authorisation and registration of who has been in and viewed in the records. For patients, it may also mean that the health care service is less well-serviced. It may take too long for test results to come and diagnosis to be made. It is difficult without an electronic system to go in and order services yourself. A lot of training could be given to patients on how to live with one’s own disease through good electronic communications, and patients could gain much better access to telemedicine. You could, for example, not to travel, to leave accommodation and, for example: in the dialysis of renal patients use telemedicine and thus get better service, more help and a simpler everyday life. For the staff, it may also be that the development of ICT has not gone far enough into major problems. Still, staff spend a lot of time searching for, retrieving, clearing, storing paper records in those hospitals and in those institutions where mixing solutions are available or still have mainly paper solutions. In a larger hospital, up to a few hundred staff may be present and have tasks in relation to a patient during a hospital stay – phases through different departments – and there may soon be an unwieldy system also for staff, with messages, memorabilia and the use of tablets, etc. to provide the necessary information on the patient’s course of disease. There's a need to build up an electronic journal that everyone sticks to, where there's a fixed routine system, where you know that everything you need to know when you get on duty has been put in. This can now be done very effectively. We know that e.g. in Ullevål University Hospital, they are now using language technology. That means you can talk about what's to be included in the journal. It's written in using language technology, and it becomes much more effective than what we do today. With regard to ICT development, it is also important for staff to be able to access videoconferencing and thus specialist assistance from elsewhere in the country, in order to obtain rapid access to analyses, X-rays, surveys, etc. and do not go waiting for this for hours or days. So it would be a great potential for patients and for staff – and for society – to get more momentum in ICT development. I could mention that in a large hospital, I interrogated myself about this and asked how much resources they used to handle this mix of paper records and electronic records. The answer I received, which obviously does not need to be representative, was that in a large department in a large hospital they thought they could use up to 18 years' worth of sorting, storing, finding, retrieving, arranging, writing into these journals. So there's a lot of resources to make use of here. I have also received analyses that show that for the chroniclers in the country it may be up to 63 pst. reduction of hospitalisation in the conduct of inspections and ongoing treatment, if ICT, telemedicine, etc. are used. in an implemented manner. You could assemble technical functions. In many places around the country, it could be avoided, for example: the analysis of X-ray images, where total electronic grips were carried out in that area. Progress is being made. It's obvious, and we have examples of that. The Arendal Hospital removed 1,600 shelving meters of paper records already in 2001 and has implemented a complete electronic system. Many hospitals have come after, but in many places it is also a mixture. For example, it's just 28 pst. sending out epicrisis electronically. Norsk Healthnet is a high-speed network that reaches all health companies, all hospitals, but it is still the case that you have to say that it is only in the start-up pit. For example, 12 is pst. by the municipalities with, and 12 pst. by the contract specialists. It's better when it comes to regulars. There's 55 pst. with. We can say that we have centres of excellence, and we have a national council. Things are going on, but we have problems with progress. I think something is due to the legal situation. This is in order to communicate between enterprises, for example: patient records, you have to ask for permission. You have to have a procedure for what to deliver. It can take too much time, for example. in acute situations. So I'll bring in the question of getting into some kind of national nuclear records. I understand that not all the information on detailed patient treatment and sensitive information is to be included in a national core journal, but the question is whether you could create a standard for things that are absolutely necessary to know, and put this into a system that is accessible with strict authorisation and strict safety rules no matter where you are in the country, no matter what part of the healthcare system you live in when you need help, when those who treat need access to it. There is also a great deal of uncertainty about the financing of telemedicine, and where expenditure is to be taken, because there are different levels of funding. Telemedicine is funded through the specialist health service, but it may also be possible to provide help in the community health service, thereby not connecting the funding between the two. There are many issues related to this, but I look forward to hearing how the Council of State assesses the issue and what should be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1557	The representative of Bohemia addresses an important issue, namely how we can use ICT to improve access to information in the health sector in such a way that those who need it can access patient information more quickly and thus provide better patient care. In order to provide patients with good health care, there is no doubt that the necessary health information must be available to health professionals at the moment they need it. Rapid access to patient information will often be crucial for the quality of healthcare provided. Here's a lot of opportunities to get even better, and we should get even better at these possibilities. Information to be exchanged will be found by healthcare professionals in the electronic patient record, abbreviated to EPJ. Electronic patient records will be available to several people at the same time, irrespective of where they are located. Access to the necessary patient information will be faster and easier once the information exchange has been facilitated. Full transition to electronic patient records and electronic interaction over Norsk Healthnet provide very good opportunities for faster and easier exchange of information. It is also necessary to ensure that, at the same time as handling personnel have access to information on the patient, they do not have access to the records. It is done by establishing barriers for those who are not to have access. The activities of the specialist and local health services are obliged to ensure that the records and information systems are sound and respect privacy. In December last year, regional health businesses issued a joint study on electronic access, exchange and sharing of patient-oriented information between health businesses and within enterprises. This study highlights the well-known situation of those working in hospitals who are difficult to get documented and discussed in the further work on making the information available. There is evidence of a number of transfers of patients between healthcare companies. Patients are treated in several health establishments – on the one hand planned and on the other in emergency situations. The main reasons for this are free choice of hospitals, specialisation and functional distribution between hospitals. There is often a need for rapid access to the record-keeping information in the event of acute patient transmission. However, even when the treatment is planned, there is a need for effective access to relevant information, such as: whether or not the representative of Bohemia was involved, studies, laboratory analyses and X-rays – to mention something. The study of regional health companies and the Ministry's assessments shows that the information exchange we are talking about here should be governed by law. Today's law is in my view – and I understand that the representative Bøhler shares that view with me – not enough to ensure that healthcare professionals have access to the necessary patient information across healthcare companies and service levels. I would therefore like to address the necessary legislative changes, which, of course, must also safeguard privacy in a safe way. I will come back to Stortinget with this in a suitable way as soon as we are clear. As mentioned in the National Health Plan, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has been given a mandate to draw up concrete proposals for the necessary legislative changes to enable information to be shared or to make it available to healthcare professionals. There may be in and between health establishments, in and between private hospitals and between private hospitals and health establishments. The directorate will then also have to assess the responsibilities of the patient information. They have also been asked to draft a regulation on the safety measures to be taken by healthcare companies to open up extended access, as I have just mentioned. In addition, consideration will be given to whether the proposals that come up may also apply to the primary health service, or whether this needs to be carried out at any stage two. The national health plan describes common information and communication solutions to enable staff to access up-to-date information in response to the patient. This can be done by, for example: may look up directly in the electronic record-keeping systems or by establishing a national record-sheet. The aim is that access to information should be more closely linked to patients and treatment processes. Establishing a national journal could help improve the quality of treatment by providing health professionals with critical patient information across health businesses and levels of our healthcare. A national file may contain information on where information is available and may contain parts or all of the individual patient record. Today, our healthcare companies are using different software to a large extent. It may lead to technical barriers to the exchange of patient information between healthcare providers. Health companies have also come differently in the introduction of electronic patient records, and some healthcare companies still have partly paper-based patient records on which the representative was involved. EPJ systems can to some extent be adapted and changed in some health enterprises, while the systems of other health enterprises are so obsolete in functionality and technology that they need to be replaced completely. I'm prepared to put a lot of pressure on this work, so that we get the same systems as far as possible, and that we get the interaction between the different levels and businesses to slide even better in the future. Legislative changes will also be one of several measures to increase interaction. The use of national standards, in addition to what I have mentioned, is also essential for the large-scale interaction between sectors, in the health sector and within individual health businesses. Competence centres in the health and social sector, abbreviated as KITH, have undertaken significant work in this area. The use of standards has so far been tried and based on voluntary efforts by suppliers and by purchasers of systems. I have commissioned the Social and Health Directorate to investigate a system of national approval of standards for the exchange of messages and electronic patient records. This authorisation system will also oblige health professionals, health businesses and healthcare managers to apply the common standards. National requirements for the EPJ system will also facilitate the design of systems for suppliers and shall also allow communication between systems having the necessary access control and functionality. In the business meetings with the regional health companies, I have asked that they require their suppliers to have all standards for health notification approved by the sector's competence centre. The exchange of patient information shall go across Norwegian Health Network, which is the sector’s secure communication channel for health information. I am also calling for progress in the development of ICT services, including in the municipal health service and in the care sector, where we have a chance to think about it. The requirements are followed up by national ICTs, which are the cooperation forums of regional health establishments in this area. We know that care services in municipalities provide most of the communication with health businesses when writing in and out of users who have extensive service needs. We know that ICT is a very good tool for better cooperation and interaction between the different levels. We also know that the municipalities here have come very differently. There are still municipalities that have not acquired an EPJ system at all. Among the municipalities that have this system, it's just 60 pst. which has included care services in the system. The municipalities are, as is known, maritime legal entities which cannot be directly governed by the State. This also applies when we talk about the acquisition, financing and use of ICT equipment. However, the central association of municipalities has developed a strategy on how ICT can be used in a more active way in the municipal sector. It's important. We will follow up from the department to find suitable forms of cooperation between our hospitals and between the municipalities, represented by the Municipal Councils' Central Association. I also believe that there is a great potential in telemedicine, as the representative of Bohemia was concerned. Decentralisation and good cooperation means that the provision of specialist health services is getting closer to the patient, and we should have more of that. Regional health enterprises are known to have financial responsibility for both treatment and sick transport. Total financial responsibility encourages, where appropriate, decentralised specialist health services, as less sick transport is needed. Spare travel costs resulting from the use of telemedicine solutions are incurred by the regional health undertaking. Activity-based reimbursement tariffs exist for telemedicine, but, as is well known, the Government has now also appointed a separate selection to review the financing arrangements of the specialist health service with a view to achieving an even better patient trajectory. In this context, the question of the financing of telemedicine will be considered in greater detail. In conclusion, I believe that we have a major challenge in getting more doctors' offices connected to the Health Network. Unfortunately, as the representative of Bøhler was in the room, there are not too many who are still there. We'll try to help them get involved, because we don't just have to sort out ICT in hospitals, we also have to get it in the municipalities in order for patients to get better treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1600	I would like to thank the Minister for an answer that testifies that she will take a great deal of care of things. I am particularly pleased that legislative changes are to be made in order to avoid excessive burdening with procedures in connection with the transfer of records. I think there's a lot of urgency in getting it done -- there's obvious need -- so I hope there's a process that doesn't take too long. I also hope that special attention will be paid to getting this done in the emergency chain, because in the emergency chain, as I described in my previous post, there is a great need for this to work at the moment from medical officers to various specialised health services in all parts of the country. It is also positive that the Minister said that work should be done to create national standards in the field of electronic records. It is obvious that standards are needed for what they should contain, and I hope you can look at whether you should have a nuclear record, with information that is essential that you get the same where the patient lives in the country, and that you have the opportunity to have access to it quickly and without a stay. Of course, at each institution there may be many, more personal details of the patient information, which do not need to be included in the core journal that everyone can obtain immediately. I would also like to point out that in relation to what both the Minister and I are looking for here, there is a gap between the number of hospitals, healthcare companies that have introduced electronic records, and the number that cannot in any way be fully implemented. For example, according to an overview from the Health and Social Directorate for 2006, it is only 46 pst. by those who have electronic records and have fully implemented ICT systems in hospitals, using them in relation to laboratory responses, studies and the type of communication. It's just 28 pst. which uses it for epicrisis, and almost no one uses it for cross-references, etc. So there is also a need to look at training measures, look at governance measures and require the implementation of the tools you already have. I also believe that it is necessary to clarify more clearly what is involved in the implementation of telemedicine. Everyone has been a strong supporter of it for many years now. There is something about the funding solutions across different levels of our administration that means that the gain does not come directly to those who need to build up the services. I hope we can get back to that as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1611	I feel that the representative Bøhler and I fully agree on the goal and that one should not spend longer than necessary in this area. I will at least make sure that from my post I will do what I can to keep a great deal of pressure on this case. It's probably a challenge, as I said, that this has come at a very different pace both in hospitals and in the municipalities. There are also challenges related to a number of suppliers, which are also not entirely unproblematic. But we're making proposals for legislative changes, and we're going to make national standards. I fully agree with the representative of Bohemia that it must be that a person should be able to enter the file quickly when a patient needs help, no matter where one is in the country, and that one can also communicate across the country. I agree that this is urgent. I fully agree that there are obvious needs, particularly related to the emergency services, and perhaps also with patients with special needs, who are often sent back and forth between different levels. I also want to say that in the field of telemedicine, I share the idea that we both can and should do even more. The representative of Bohemia used dialysis patients as an example. It is quite obvious that for dialysis patients who have to go miles to get treatment maybe four hours three days a week, we have won incredibly much if they can get treatment much closer to where they live. That's the kind of action we want to stimulate. In this context, I am also concerned that we are going through what is involved in the financing system, in order to encourage more telemedicine and that type of solution. What the representative mentions in terms of training measures, I think is also an important point, and I will take it with me in the further work on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1622	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1625	First of all, I will be allowed to thank the interpellant for addressing the issue he is doing here, related to ICT in the healthcare sector. This is an extremely important topic, which, at least in the opinion of the undersigned, we have most likely discussed too little. We have had a lot of focus in healthcare on how we can improve on the treatment side, how we can reduce waiting time, and how we can get more out of health care. But where we've probably been a little daunting, we're on the ICT side, because we probably don't use the potential that's actually in this sector. So it's quite obvious that there are also a number of pitfalls regarding the use of ICT. Of course, it's about faulty information, it's about information security, it's about the development of good software, and not least that those who are at the other end are also going to benefit from the information you get online. In the case of electronic patient records, I think we're in the process, and it's doing a considerable amount of work. But what's a little bit important is that we don't have all the focus just on the journals. The most important thing is to put in place a system in which the different computer systems of all healthcare providers can talk to each other – not just at patient journal level, it's on image diagnosis, it can go on transmitting large data related to epicrisis and a number of other things. Then we also need what's called the hardware, the hardware, and the software should be able to talk to each other between the different health companies. In this context, it is very important that the Enterprise Council of the State takes action from a central level, precisely to give a shining clear message that when we develop computer systems, the systems should be able to talk across the different health business boundaries. It makes sense to run different systems — and not just between health regions. In fact, there are some examples that hospitals within the same region also have different systems. It can't go on like that, and it has to be cleaned up at once for everyone. I'm also going to try to visualize a couple of areas that it's important to focus. Norway is a long-distance country, and we have, among other things, an ambulance service that we are very dependent on. It's amazing how much information you can get in connection with an ambulance trip that lasts for quite a long time. It is important to put in place an even better communication system between ambulances and hospitals in order to be able to transmit data, for example, which can then be entered. You save time. Furthermore, we also know that there has been strong criticism of the epi-crisis period in part of the country’s hospital. By being able to have computer systems in place and have the hardware and software in place, you will also be able to have an epi-crisis much faster. It is also obvious that in the interaction between specialist health services and primary health services, there are serious challenges that are just about to arise in the exchange of information. Therefore, it is a little important that the discussions and negotiations you have with, for example. KS, and in the agreements concluded, also ensure that municipalities have an electronic patient record system in place. The Health and Welfare Committee has been in the Social and Health Directorate today and has been provided with some figures. They show that it's just 12 pst. by the municipalities of Norway which have such a system in place. It's too bad. If you're going to use whips or carrots, I'm not going to say anything about it, but at least I think it's important that we take control and get this in place. I think we'd get more out of the money we spend, and I think patients would be considerably more satisfied, because you get the epicrisis faster, you get faster treatment, you get faster answers. Everyone's earned it. As far as telemedicine is concerned, I just want to make a little comment on it: yes, we're going to have more telemedicine in place, but telemedicine can never replace the doctor. We have to make sure that it comes in addition and not instead. It's a very important moment to carry on with us in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1642	It's a very exciting and a very important topic the interpellant has put on the agenda. It's quite right as it's pointed out, that it's important that we manage to bring Norway together into one rich telemedicine. When we had 19-20 county municipalities that were hospital owners, we probably had 19-20 different ICT systems that talked more or less together. Now we have five – or every four – health regions, but unfortunately we just have to note that they don’t talk so well either. So we still have a challenge that we, as patients, travel around and visit different health institutions, but no guarantee that this will allow us to find our journal – for example. if I were to visit a hospital here in Oslo. Then I want to say that it has been very exciting to follow the development of the telemedicine environment we have in Tromsø, and it has also been a bit exciting to see how the environment is being used by the World Health Organisation and bilaterally by many countries that are either looking for Tromsø – I kept saying – physically up there or in other ways are making contact with them and agreeing to develop services in their countries. And if we have distance challenges in Norway, at least in Africa. There are some African countries that now see that this is the way they can manage to get good health care out to their people. In this way, this too has an aid perspective, if we in Norway can help ensure that this technology can ensure good health services in countries far away from us. It is therefore a reality that the National Telemedicine Centre in Tromsø has played a key role in developing new technologies that will allow patients access to specialist health services where they actually live. Telemedicine improves the availability of medical specialists, and we also know that it can save large patient groups for long journeys, and thus society too much travel costs. Nord-Norway is the first health region to have all primary doctors and hospitals connected on a health network, so nowhere in the country is it better to be able to use telemedicine as a method. In the context of the 2006 revised national budget, the Right actually proposed strengthening the environment in Tromsø by 10 million. the development of telemedicine services at local level. Because also here, it turns out that telemedicine can be a very well-suited tool to contribute to the transfer of key competences that many smaller municipalities actually have to deal with on their own. In Troms, we have also developed two district medical centers, in Lenvik and in Nordreisa, which are are arenas for the use of telemedicine as a method. There is no doubt that telemedicine has great potential, but it is also true that when telemedicine is used, certain challenges are encountered both in relation to the DRG system and in relation to medical tariff mergers. Because when telemedicine is used, a new division of labour between the primary doctor and the medical specialist is experienced, and unfortunately, the tariffs are not designed in such a way that they can be shared without delay. In many places, in fact, those who do the biggest job get the smallest payment, or no payment, and it makes one in some situations where one really should have taken on telemedicine, get punished if one does. There is more work for the primary doctor, so he or she gets little or nothing paid to do that job. If I start from Nord-Troms, Nordreisa, it is 3 1/2 hours of travel – every way – if a patient goes to Tromsø at the University Hospital North Norway for treatment. When we know that we have a population that, I kept saying, more and more consists of chroniclers and people of old age, we realize that it is a great burden if you have to travel to and from Tromsø to get it done for relatively good things that could have been investigated on the site. So here's a lot of challenges related to providing on-site facilities ranging from mobile decentralised x-ray systems to other on-site services. But it's a raging development. Now we hear about diabetes patients who are being instructed on insulin dosing, and the last new thing I've heard, is that now you're going to create systems where stroke and blood pressure spaces in the future are going to be able to be guided by your mobile phone in relation to the dosage of medicine. I see the time is running out here, but I'm finally just going to take up one thing with the Council of State, and challenge her that there is a research project that is planned and that should have been started between Sonjatun and UNN, which has not received the necessary approvals in terms of tariff mergers. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]] I'll almost get back to it in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1661	I would also like to start by commending the interpellant. This is a very important discussion, which can extend to many different thematic areas – it is a large field. But at least I believe that it is necessary to take a central approach in this area, and that too often, as many have pointed out, we have seen that different actors working together and coordinating their work have invested in completely different solutions. There is also a lot of frustration in many places about solutions that have not been adapted to the needs of those who are actually going to use them. In St.meld. No 17 says the Government of the Ministry of Renewal that technological developments will "persevere rapidly, for at least 10 more years". It means rapid changes, continuous changes. At the same time, decision-making processes related to new policies and legislation can often take years. As a result, there is a risk that assessments and proposals will ‘end-of-date’. The notification underlines the need for cross-cutting initiatives. This is important, because we need to see the whole thing in order to avoid constantly creating new problems by moving them somewhere else. But we must not be paralysed either. At the bottom of the message, there is a belief that those countries that pursue policies that make use of the opportunities and reap the benefits of new ICT, while at the same time being able to counteract and mitigate undesirable effects, will achieve greater growth and a better welfare development than those countries that do not address these needs for change and renewal. The use of adapted and integrated ICT systems will provide us with safer treatment and faster treatment. It will provide potential for multidisciplinary and comprehensive patient care. This could lead to better detection of errors and better protection of privacy. However, this may also lead to a lower level of privacy protection. As it is said in St.meld. No 17: ‘The objectives may often be the best; that’s precisely why it is also important to recognise the vulnerability of privacy.’ Studies show that the knowledge of privacy is poor, both in the majority of people and in businesses, probably also in hospitals and other health services. The same applies to compliance with data protection law. It is important that the people have confidence in the technology. That is why we need safe systems, good control, information and communication. As a general rule, we must ensure full anonymity, transparency and also ensure that changes to records, etc. is being registered. The Committee has been on a visit to the municipality of Inner Troms not long ago, and we have received a demonstration of how telemedicine can be used in a way that prevents unnecessary and often time-consuming and burdensome travel for patients, that telemedicine can spread and democratize knowledge and competence and allow for the decentralisation of services. Telemedicine is close to my heart. I believe that we need to change the funding system as quickly as possible so that it will no longer be unprofitable to use telemedicine, and I agree with the representative of Aspaker on this point. In this respect, the government also has an important task of providing broadband coverage across the country. Today, the Committee has been with the Directorate for Social and Health and has been introduced to ICT work in the health sector, among others. I think the whole committee has great expectations for Norsk Healthnet, but it is a problem that many have also explained that only 12 pst. by the municipalities and contract specialists and only 55 pst. by the gamers. In the case of information exchange, only the interaction between general practitioners and laboratories is extensively carried out electronically The relationship between care services and general practitioners and health establishments is e.g. during piloting only – i.e. in the start-up phase. It is extremely important that all actors use the same open standards. I think that is enormously important to be communicated unambiguously from the centre. I have full confidence that the Minister of Health and Health will have full pressure on that. Perhaps there is room for more centralised governance, and I am also excited about what conclusions come from the National Health Knowledge Centre, for example. another field of certification and accreditation. When I visited the hospital in Westfold in January, one of the first things they showed me was the sterile centre in the hospital, which they had, quite by itself, been ISO certified. This they thought was one of the best investments they had made, because it became a huge efficiency promise. It was also very important for patient safety. I also believe that ICT can be very useful in self-help work, for example. to create groups online where you can talk about your illness.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1684	Good ICT solutions in the healthcare sector can deliver significant benefits through better treatment and care for patients. I would like to pay tribute to the interpellant for putting this on the agenda and thus raising awareness of the need for coordination and standardisation in this area. Some of the challenges, particularly those related to privacy, were discussed for a few weeks back, when the representative Salaries addressed challenges related to electronic patient records. I am pleased that the Council of State will give this area priority in the future, on the basis of the challenges ahead of us. In particular, I would like to highlight the importance of participation of health and care professionals in the development of ICT. Health and care professionals have basic principles of care, including: focus on the obligation to provide good help to individual patients and users. It is important that such principles are respected in the ICT solutions that are being developed and that the systems facilitate good professional practice. In a doctoral dissertation by Kåre Lines, senior lecturer at the Nord-Trøndelag High School, it appears that the development of IT systems has been guided by the need of government and municipal administration to achieve more health for each krone. Their perspective is influenced by, it is said, the need for scientific data in order to make service production as efficient as possible. It is concluded that such focussing has helped to reduce the search light on traditional care values. It is therefore recommended that health and care workers be more involved in the development of IT systems. There is nothing wrong with efficiency, but you also have to pay attention to quality. The development of ICT systems in the healthcare sector must therefore not only be about improving efficiency, but also about improving the professional quality of services. Furthermore, the health sector needs to focus on IT training in line with ICT solutions. According to the Nursing Association, the health sector neglects IT training. It is referred to that nurses generally have insufficient computer skills and too little use IT as a tool. This also certainly applies to other disciplines. Trustees report that training is deprioritised and that it is set off too little time. Electronic patient records, administrative systems and professional systems increasingly require computer skills from health workers. Also in the case of trade support systems and electronic interaction between departments, there are major challenges. These are of little use if they are not used or if they are not used correctly. As far as telemedicine is concerned, several have pointed out that the Health and Care Committee received a great demonstration of it in Health Nord. A dissertation in sociology by Anne Granstrøm Ekeland at the University of Tromsø on teleradiology in North Norway reveals that this has led to more effective emergency services by allowing digitised x-ray images to be sent from the local hospitals to experts at the University Hospital of North Norway. We also had this demonstrated in a great way when we were there now. At the same time, teleradiology challenges healthcare companies to think in new ways about the organisation of x-ray services. The service has led to greater pressure on hospital specialists. An important priority question to ask is what should be assessed by a specialist and what should be addressed by a generalist. Furthermore, it is revealed that much time is devoted to clarifications and negotiations on the use of teleradiology. Overall political leadership in the development of telemedicine services is important because its use is largely a matter of prioritisation and allocation of resources. I am therefore very pleased that the Council of State will engage, and have already done so, in the development of telemedicine, so that overall health policy leaders are taken into account in the work. It is also positive that the Council of State today signals assessments of the need for better regulation in this area and greater equality in software. Another work is to get all parts of healthcare to use ICT, and it's not something of its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1708	In order to provide patients with good and safe treatment, it is important that the necessary patient information is available. As we have heard from several speakers, it is often difficult to access emergency patient information, because the patient record is located somewhere and may need to be found manually. In cases where the patient record is electronic, the exchange of patient information is often prevented because of the law or lack of legislation, or because the different electronic systems do not communicate with each other. However, it is essential that data protection is protected in a safe and good way, so that personal data does not become unsolicited in it. It is positive that the Council of State warns that it will make the necessary legislative changes to ensure that healthcare professionals have access to the necessary patient information across healthcare undertakings and levels of service, and that such a change in law is to safeguard privacy in a safe manner. The Council of State indicated that the Directorate of Social and Health has been given a mandate to investigate legislative changes for specialist health services. It is important that primary health services are also looked at in this context. Interaction across service levels is very important, and it is actually a prerequisite for a seamless patient flow. Another problem is that health professionals use different standards, i.e. systems which do not communicate with each other. It has not been long since I read in a newspaper about a regional health company that had to change the supplier of the patient records system because one in cooperation with this company discovered after several years that they could not deliver a sufficiently good system. I believe that national standards are necessary to achieve the necessary interaction. And that's good, as the government council said, that competence centers in the health and social sector, KITH, are doing a lot of work to get this realized. I think we need a strong governance of this if we are to succeed. Today, the use of standards is voluntary based on both the suppliers and the purchasers of the systems. I think it is very good that the Council of State in the Business Meetings has asked health care providers to demand that all health notification standards should be approved by the sector's competence centre, KITH, and that the exchange of patient information should go over Norwegian health network, which is the secure communication channel for health information. Five–six years ago, I was at the language technology centre at Voss, which developed the ability to speak in an electronic letter. That's why it's quite interesting to hear that doctors from, for example, from Buskerud central hospital now attends a speech course to be able to use this technology, which was actually developed in Norway, to read an electronic journal and thus to go outside the writing rooms, which is often a hospital bottleneck, and could therefore also send the patient an epicrisis when the patient leaves the hospital. Fortunately, something happens, but it's important that the Council and the Department keep pressure up, so that you can get systems that can talk to each other, and get a good flow in this for the benefit of patient treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1725	The representative of Bohemia must be commended for focusing on this important issue, which deals both with telemedicine as a diagnostic and treatment provision and the practical solutions that healthcare needs to find. It has been mentioned before me. There have over time been high expectations for the development of telemedicine. There are great opportunities in the future for developing this, for patient contact and for training. When ICT and telemedicine can save patients for long-term travel, it is fundamentally positive. Too many in District Norway, and especially in North Norway – as many have mentioned – see the positive possibilities in this field. In general, many of us want the opportunity to get specialist advice online. But how do the practical solutions to patient exchange work on data? There is no secret that the Left here is very concerned with privacy. The left is concerned about a sustained, growing pressure to facilitate the collection, use and storage of personal data related to health. Many ICT engineers believe that today's privacy is in fact poor in healthcare, such as: too many health workers have access to information about patients and read records that they do not really need to read. In the opinion of the Left, it is very worrying that a large number of instances should have access to private information about us. That said, this obviously has to be balanced against the need for good treatment. There must be no doubt about it. The big question will then be, how many will have access to the information? One health-care provider states that they have joint operation of record-keeping systems with several independent health-care providers. Of course, it would be absolutely necessary to share patient records with other healthcare companies, but there must be strict procedures for how many should have this access. In the opinion of the Left, it is a major obstacle to ICT that the electronic solutions purchased are not compatible. Thus, hospitals cannot provide the necessary patient data due to different ICT systems in today’s Norway. There must be a requirement for the systems to be able to talk to each other – so the systems must be compatible. There has been a tendency that a little too many local small kings have chosen their own ‘perfect’ technical solutions. It is also important that health professionals working on this daily are actively involved in the development of ICT, as the representative Davay also said. In addition, when, as patients, we receive self-reports that can provide information about our own disease and our symptoms, these ICT systems need to ensure both access and up-to-date ICT solutions so that as patients we can choose who should have information about us. I fully agree that the Council of State here must force health institutions to use common standards – it must be one of the most important things in this case – in order to cooperate and promote cooperation. The Council of State also mentioned in its statement that she would make the necessary legislative changes for the sector. I am also pleased that the Council of State mentioned cooperation between the hospital and the community health service. Here are major challenges and a lot of work to get ICT solutions in place. The left is positive to the solutions that telemedicine and ICT provide, but it is important to bear in mind that it will never replace human contact. Medicine is not only three-dimensional – it is also about encounters between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1742	The interpellant points out that, despite the long-standing objective of using ICT and telemedicine to improve interaction within the medical treatment chain, there are major obstacles to its use as an effective tool today. I fully agree that better provision is needed for the use of ICT and telemedicine in specialist health services, but I am concerned that municipal health services must also be raised to the same technological level as specialist health services. There is today a grey zone between municipal health services and state-run health services. Local health services lack qualified staff and the Government has set itself high targets for recruiting more people in the health and care sector. There is an increasing number of users, and there is also an increase in morbidity among users. The experience is that ICT is used to a small extent, and most of the documentation is on paper and communication by telephone and letter. Individual municipalities are engaged in projects and services, among other things. KS and Interaction 2007 have contributed to this. However, there is almost no coordinated commitment to ICT and electronic interaction between municipalities and between municipalities and hospitals. So far, health enterprises have been the most central drivers to increase cooperation with municipalities, but their main focus is the specialist health service. State healthcare is characterised by high status, highly qualified staff, increasing numbers of users and patients and more complex issues. In order to support the use of telemedicine and ICT by state health services, a number of centres and functions have been established, such as: National ICT, National Telemedicine Centre, KITH, Norwegian Health Network, etc. Corresponding resources are not available to the municipal sector, and I think this is a problem we need to address. That there's a lot to pick up, an example from Tromsø might illustrate. There, a project was launched by the National Telemedicine Centre at one of the municipal hospitals in the city, in cooperation with the municipality of Tromsø. Crochet hospitals and two nursing homes in Tromsø were the first age institutions in Norway to be connected to a national health network. The aim of the project was to establish electronic communication between the hospital and the supervisors in order to exchange questions and answers via secure e-mail. In addition, electronic communication between hospital and hospital was established to respond to laboratory tests and to receive epicrisis. This allowed the nurses to save a lot of time to stop waiting on the phone for busy doctors, answers to laboratory tests came much earlier, and the nurses experienced it as instructive and effective to use new tools. The municipality of Tromsø now has five nursing homes and two home service units on the network and is in the process of full-scale implementation of electronic solutions. The municipality thinks about future recruitment and cannot sit still and see that the specialist health service remains more attractive for newly trained health professionals. It should be an objective to raise the municipalities to a technological level similar to that of the specialist health service. I would therefore ask the Council of State to clarify how she believes the technological level of community health can be developed and raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1757	I would like to thank all those who have made contributions, for pleasant comments on the importance of the theme, and for everyone’s participation in putting pressure on us to make progress here – get results. There are many people who have said that all the systems need to be able to talk together, that we need to get a seamless ICT system where you don't have each one's own revir and develop each other's electronic solutions. It will be throwing money into the air, to the detriment of a coordinated, good and effective patient treatment throughout the country. Strong action is needed to coordinate. There may also be a question of whether there has been a great deal of resource dissipation by developing systems that cannot be used further, and that, as a result, investments that have been wasted have been made. It'll show up gradually. Fortunately, I know that e.g. The SINTEF environment in Norway is now developing a method of learning to talk about systems that have not been able to talk together. It is also part of ICT development that we are getting better at getting systems that have been isolated to coordinate with each other. So here, fortunately, we have a development that allows us to get a common system faster than we might have thought. The second main issue raised by many speakers concerns the municipalities and the implementation of ICT developments in health and care services there. It's been repeated by so to say everyone that only 12 pst. of the municipalities now included. I think it's important to look at what tools we're now using to get with the municipalities. It is clear that it is necessary for the population to have access to health and care services, and it is necessary to increase quality and coordination. It's good that KS is engaged. However, I believe that the legislative work on the issue of ICT development in Health-Norway should also consider whether there is a need in one or more points to go the legislative path to get the community sector involved. Telemedicine is also under pressure in the debate. It has been said that it can never replace doctors, that we need to focus on quality and not just on efficiency. I think that everything we've talked about here today has gone to better patient treatment – it's obvious that there's going to be higher quality when you have the information you need to give the patient good treatment. It will provide higher quality for the patient, for example: avoid going back and forth to the central hospital for checks and other activities that can be done via telemedicine. [[The President clubs.]] Here we can make great progress, and I point out that in a 2006 report, the Directorate stresses the need for strong key leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1770	I just want to say that I agree that this has been a good debate. I am pleased that there is a broad consensus on this issue – that we are on our way, but that quite a lot remains, it also seems that there is agreement on it. Here it is, for example. used examples that several hospitals – I would say fortunately – now go to doctors talking directly into the computer, to put it simply, and that some of the writing rooms become superfluous. These are processes that don't go without a swordstroke. But it's absolutely right to do that, because then the information comes out faster and the patient gets faster and hopefully better treatment. And those who until today have been sitting in writing rooms can do a lot of other sensible work that we need more in hospitals. But we also have to be aware that part of the processes that it now seems to be a broad consensus, not at all going without swords in the future either. Then I agree with what is also said here about the municipalities. I notice what the representative, not least Bohemia, said on the tap, that one believes that there are several tools to get connected to several municipalities faster. Of course, I'm taking that with me in the further process. When it comes to telemedicine, I've commented on it. The representative Elisabeth Aspaker and others have been involved. But I would like to stress that it is very important that we manage to expand the entire Norwegian health network, i.e. that all of this is stuck together. And as far as telemedicine is concerned, people who use telemedicine – and it is good that people do it – have to comply with the safety requirements that apply to all information exchanges that contain sensitive information. This has just been preserved through Norsk Healthnett. But that means that only users who are connected to the health network will benefit from the efficiency gains of telemedicine. Today there are only about 35 municipalities that are connected to the health network, and that means that there is very little, or in some municipalities no, use of telemedicine. It also says something about what major challenges we have in that field too. So I have noticed that several representatives here stress that there is a need for more national governance. That's what I'm prepared to do. As was said here, there were 19 different systems -- if there weren't so many, there are at least several systems. Having fewer systems and better interaction, I am committed to trying to contribute through legislative changes, through national standards, through very strong contacts also with the local government sector, and we need to assess tools to get them more in place. So I feel that there's a broad consensus here. I am also concerned that the professionals themselves should be able to develop this further, and that this is essentially about providing better quality to our patients. That's why we might have just these jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1783	Case No. 12 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1801	The red-green government went to the choice of doing a little for everyone, but has not yet done much for anyone. One of the many areas where lack of action has been shown is mental health in our multicultural society. The government is ten, but the media have unfortunately on a number of occasions demonstrated that the issue needs to be taken with the greatest seriousness. It's not long since we could read in the VG that a 39-year-old from Sri Lanka had strangled his wife. According to the paper, he was unstable before the killing. He lost all his four children, parents and siblings in tsunami in 2004, and probably the 39-year-old has not received professional help in dealing with the trauma of the disaster after he came to Norway. I'm not going to dwell on this single thing. It is unfortunately just one of several examples of violent episodes of tragic outcomes. I'm going to go somewhere else – to Greenland in Oslo. Catering flourishes among the Somalis. According to an article in Dagbladet on 18 March, it is suggested that 70 pst. by Somali men chew. When we know what cat leads to indifference, indifference, anxiety and depression, including family violence, divorce and poverty, it goes without saying that this is a serious social problem. Why is it like this, and what can we do about it? It's too easy to explain it with cultural differences. This is where we have to address the problem. What does the government do to put an end to cat gypsy? What does the Government do to get Somali men to work? It's not to help the Council of State with the answer, but I can't help mentioning an episode from the Municipal Committee's US trip. In Louisville, Kentucky, we were briefed on the city's reception of refugees and the integration policy that was pursued. On one of the local businesses, largely driven by foreign labour, the consultant would take us away to two of the Somalis, because – as he said – it was the nicest group to work. When we were somewhat surprised to point out that the Somalis are one of the most difficult groups in the integration work, he pulled his shoulders and said, "Yes, but you're just giving them money." Right, we can't compare directly, but this should be an example of reflection for most people. Work increases the man, while inaction often leads to depression and mental distress. It's going to be an evil circle. In integration work, we should focus more strongly on shorter processing times, faster settlement and work in municipalities. Immigrant mental health should be addressed by the Council of State for several reasons. Firstly, good integration is a prerequisite for good mental health. In this way, the integration policy pursued is of crucial importance. Secondly, good integration is important in the interests of individual immigrants themselves and the family, and thirdly, the security of the community is essential for well-being and belonging. If we don't catch up and help people with major mental problems, the security of society will be gone. We know that people seeking protection in Norway have been through psychologically stressful experiences. We've had several dramatic episodes of fatal outcomes. However, we do not know enough about the scope and need for help. We only know that people react differently to heavy experiences, and that they have different needs for help. Today's interpellation has a history. It was initially addressed to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion and placed on the Stortinge agenda – before being exposed and transferred to the Minister of Health who is the right person. That is not the point, but I was contacted by Channel 24 for an interview at the time. The background was that they put on a research report on tortured refugees in Norway. In the media picture, the report, prepared by Aker University Hospital, Hospital for Mental Health, was linked to the interpellation debate. For me, the content of the report was unknown, but by reading it the more interesting, and most relevant in relation to today's theme. It should not be surprising that studies have shown a higher incidence of mental illness among refugees. However, it should be concerned that little is known about the mental health of the refugee population in Norway as a whole. In addition, we do not know how many have been subjected to serious and treatment-qualifying abuses. The report is thoughtful and worrying. A number of studies of refugees from specific rural areas show that 30–35 pst. is tortured – 100 pst. by the Chechens, almost 70 pst. of the afghans and ca. 55 pst. of those who came from Serbia and Montenegro. High percentages are also found among refugees from other countries, not least from African countries. Tortured refugees live differently in Norway. Half – 50 pst. – is in the East, while the South has 21 p.m., the West 16 p.m., Middle Norway 8 p.m. and North Norway 5 pst. It is worth noting that this survey is limited to the adult population. According to the report, about 20,000 refugee children live in Norway at the same time. One can only imagine what these children have experienced. Norway has had a relatively strict refugee policy, with high demands for asylum. It is therefore not unreasonable to assume that refugees who are granted a residence permit in Norway, as a group, have serious mental health problems. The Bondevik II government, with Røjres Ansgar Gabrielsen as Minister for Health, put the Roadmap on track. Psychiatric health protection received historically high appropriations. In order to support the regular treatment system, the Bondevik II administration established psychosocial teams for refugees in health regions. From 1 January 2004, the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress was also established. The Centre shall conduct research, development of competences and guidance and have a separate section for refugee health and forced migration. Work was also undertaken to improve the mental health of children and young people in reception. Several measures were launched in the different departments, as efforts were still needed to improve the situation of refugees with mental problems. Now a year and a half have passed since the current government of the Minister of Health took over. While the challenges in the field are more and more than before, the red-green government has stepped down the bet. In the field of immigration, the challenges of mental health in a multicultural society — no issues from the Government, not one matter in the Committee, no debates in the Stortinget. There have also been few replies from the specialist councils when the media have focused on integration policy in connection with dramatic events. The problem will be easily avoided. We know that various departments have conducted relevant studies, but so far Stortinget has not been informed of the results. It is tempting to ask whether the Council of State is busy doing something for the mental health of immigrants. The right will have answers as to whether the Council of State prioritises this important work. I'll mention some areas in particular. First, I want to take care of the mapping. There is currently no systematic monitoring of the mental health status of the minority population. The Co-operation Board launched a pilot project to be completed in 2006. It's important that this is evaluated and followed up on. As item No 2 I would like to mention the structure of competence. Lack of competence may, in some cases, lead to the absence of danger signals and the absence of proper action. Psychosocial teams have been established, but in the light of what I have said, these should probably be reinforced. Will the Council of State do that? Item No 3 concerns awareness campaign, information campaign and the establishment of threshold-free offers. We know that in these environments mental problems are still taboo. There is therefore a need for easily accessible information, and there is a need to make the threshold for addressing problems lower. And it is important that information on mental problems among the minority population can be produced in the main language areas. What about a brochure? Recruitment is also a theme that should be mentioned. Work on recruiting people with a minority background in mental health protection needs to be intensified. So I'm going to quote a little word: only when we understand where we are, can we make the choices that bring us forward. My question to the Council of State is: What choices will the Council of State make?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1852	The representative Holmberg raises an important question, but I am somewhat surprised at the tone of the interpellation – saying that this government has not done much for anyone, that we have stepped down the effort – which is actually wrong – and questions about whether the council is concerned about this. I can immediately say, the Council of State and this government are busy with this. This government has by no means stepped down its efforts in this important area, and we do not intend to do so either. This concerns a group of people who often have a very challenging life situation, who come here with a luggage that maybe few of us can imagine what really contains. Fleeing from war, persecution and assault, and applying for an asylum and residence permit in a country far from birth and adulthood, can, of course, be stressful both mentally and physically. In addition, we know that many refugees and asylum seekers face both cultural and linguistic challenges in the country where they come from. Refugees and asylum seekers also have to live with uncertainty and waiting time to find out if they are receiving an asylum or residence permit in Norway. Many people who receive a residence permit also have to wait a long time before they can settle in a municipality. In the meantime, unfortunately, many people spend too much time in the reception of asylum, which is actually meant to be a temporary offer of residence. I believe that there is good reason to pay particular attention to the mental health of refugees and asylum seekers. We have good evidence to say that mental health is to a large extent affected by living conditions, such as: having a suitable dwelling and having a meaningful everyday life, which gives self-confidence and ability to master life. Many refugees and asylum seekers in reception face challenges in several of these areas. A lack of long-term housing, lack of activity and employment and insecurity related to the outcome of the application process are, of course, very important to the individual’s mental health. The government sees it as very important to have an overall approach to mental health and mental health problems in several areas. We must work to change basic living conditions, while taking seriously the need for some to receive help from the services of the municipalities and specialist health services. It is important to build up sufficient skills to deal with refugees and asylum seekers struggling with mental trauma. This is challenging, and it's a long-term work. I would like briefly to clarify a wording on the question from the interpellant. She uses the measures of the Bondevik II Government for asylum seekers and the mental health of refugees to justify the ‘historical escalation of funds to psychiatry’. It was the Stortinget that adopted the Roadmap for Mental Health and has provided funds for the escalating plan since 1998. The implementation of this plan is also central to the work of the majority government in this field, which is clearly reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration and in the budgets we have so far presented. As you know, an asylum recipient is a voluntary and temporary residence offer for asylum seekers, but we know that many spend too much time there. It is easy to understand that an uncertain waiting time in reception, with little control over one’s own life, can affect the mental health of applicants. Therefore, it is important that the stay in reception is as short as possible, that residence in a municipality takes place quickly after a residence permit has been granted, and that return to the country of origin takes place after final rejection. The government therefore emphasises measures that can reduce the length of proceedings, ensure rapid residence and ensure that persons who are not legally resident actually leave the country. Language is essential for understanding and understanding, for providing the necessary services, for participating in activities and for obtaining the necessary information. The government sees it as very important to offer Norwegian education to asylum recipients. In the year’s budget, Norwegian education has been reintroduced from the autumn of 2007, following the withdrawal of this offer on 1 January 2003, under the Bondevik II Government. The reintroduction of teaching means that people in reception can learn enough Norwegian to cope better with everyday life and participate in society, which is very important for mental health. On several occasions, there have been problems with violence and threats in individual asylum recipients. Of course, this is very negative for the psychosocial conditions of individuals and for the environment at reception. A pilot project to identify violence and threats in reception was therefore launched in the autumn of 2006. These experiences shall be used in trying to bring this problem to life. There are many children living in reception. Of course, such a situation may be particularly difficult for the children, whether they come alone or with the family. Uncertainty about the outcome of the application, and that they then have to wait to know where to live, whether in Norway or, where appropriate, their home country, can, of course, make their stay difficult and difficult. The government therefore has several measures to improve the situation of children coming to Norway as asylum seekers: From 1 October 2007, responsibility for the care of lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 15 will be transferred to the protection of children. The aim is that children should receive a much better housing and care provision, with closer and better follow-up than is the case today.We know that reception residents generally have a weak economy, and children are often unable to participate in activities outside reception. For children, toys and activities also provide the basis for processing emotions and developing knowledge and skills. In the state budget for this year, it was allocated 5.5 million. to activities for children in reception. The means shall enhance children’s opportunities to participate in recreational activities. As the interpellant pointed out, an action plan was drawn up to improve the conditions for the mental health of refugees and asylum seekers under the Government of Bondevik II. Many of the long-term measures in the plan are also part of this government's measures for refugees and asylum seekers. Refugees and asylum seekers in Norway who suffer or suffer from severe mental illness shall be assisted by the ordinary health and social services. As I said at the outset, the government is working on expanding the mental health service both in the municipal sector and in the specialist service. The government has now obtained a special waiting guarantee for children and young people with mental or drug problems, and the proposal will shortly be promoted for the Stortinget. I also know that the mental health service has been identified as an important development area in more and more municipalities and urban areas. Family centres that are established several places in the country are good examples of lowthreshold services that we need many of. These centres collect different offers, such as: open nursery and health centre. It is a multi-disciplinary low-threshold service that reaches the minority population to a greater extent. In this way, mental problems can also be captured and prevented at a much earlier time. In order to obtain a good offer, employees need good competence in several areas, such as: in the treatment and follow-up of cultures, in the use of interpreters in the service, and in the treatment of traumatic stress. One of the most important measures is regional resource centres on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention. These centres should help to develop services and services tailored to the needs of refugees with mental illness. This means guidance, development of competences and cross-sectoral work. Both the specialist health service and the provision of services in municipalities will benefit from the new centres, which are soon in place in all regions. Earlier this month, I had the pleasure of opening up the resource center in the East Region. I am pleased to note that the needs of refugees and asylum seekers are being taken seriously, and that the basic work has already been done, so that they get started quickly on this important work. I want regional centres to become key players in improving the supply of refugees and asylum seekers, both regionally and locally and across different sectors. Many people need these centres, and there is a great need for knowledge and guidance for those who work in health and social services, in child protection and in asylum recipients. Professional development at national level is now also being pursued, in particular under the auspices of these centres. Several good guidance counsellors have also been written on treatment and good follow-up of all target groups, both adults, children and young people. I have great faith in prevention work, including in this area. That is why we now have a moving fresh guide in mental health work for children and young people in the municipal sector, which the Social and Health Directorate presented last week. I believe that this is one of many contributions to making the offer to this group better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1899	I wasn't very surprised that the Council of State believes you haven't stepped down on mental health compared to the immigrant population. I hope that I can take the Council of State to the floor, and that she will make sure that they follow the alternative budget of the Right, for 2007, we added 110 million. extra to work-oriented measures in this field for the purchase of treatment facilities and for the increase of the appropriations for clinical work. So I'm expecting the next budget procedure. The escalation plan for mental health was also mentioned. I just want to say that there is no doubt that Ansgar Gabrielsen put it back on track, because at that time we were far away from what was prescribed as a plan. For the third year, we were on the level with the first when it came to follow-up. With regard to the transfer to child protection, I directly disagree with the Council of State that this is a good measure. We have child protection in crisis. That's all I'm going to say about this right now. I want to put the search light on a status report that I have recently received, published by the Health Inspectorate of Telemark, who is living in my home state of Telemark in 2006. There are important findings in the work of municipalities. In further reading this report, I concluded that the report does not at all reflect the fact that Norway is a multicultural society, and there is no mention of mental health among immigrants. The closest it comes to today’s theme is to point out that the increasing number of immigrants represents an increasing challenge for the municipal child protection service. So the question is, is it random, or is it a sign that the multicultural society is not completely within the skin of us? I think, unfortunately, that the County Council report is quite representative and illustrates how short we have come to work on mental health in our multicultural society. We have not properly addressed the major challenges that are reflected in our daily work, that our services in the municipalities must have a minority perspective. In the state budget, appropriations are available each year for many fine projects in this area within different chapters. But I'm afraid that much of what we do in the state budget is too project-oriented and not enough is being followed up and cancelled in the ordinary service offer. And that's what I want to direct the attention of the Council of State. Unfortunately, I believe that both valuable knowledge and good practice often remain with a few. I would like some comments on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1912	I agree with the representative that it is important for practice and good examples to be distributed so that more people can learn from it – in this area as in other areas. Then I expect that we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss the budget when the time comes. It is at least a fact that this government has not stepped down its efforts towards this group. Let me just mention a few more examples of that. We are now opening five regional centers, as I mentioned in my main post. We are now monitoring the mental health of newly arrived asylum seekers. We have just completed our own guide and a separate circular on the provision of health services for ethnic minorities. We have completed two guides on the treatment and follow-up of refugees with mental trauma. We have a project on an expanded voluntary health study for residents with violently debilitating behaviour. That's important, because we're going to try to find out both systems that make us care for the individual, and also find good systems to deal with difficult situations. Here, employees, police, health professionals are trained in how to deal with such situations. The government has made clear demands in the mission document for the current year to strengthen treatment provision for refugees and asylum seekers. We have our own project in terms of rapid health investigation. We have done a lot in terms of interpreting, etc. The government will soon return with a separate waiting guarantee for children and young people under 23. I think it's very good going on here. I wish that one could rather agree on what we should jointly do to do with this vulnerable group, for the children who have come here from other countries, some of them with a luggage of violence, assault, etc., and who it is important to be properly handled. We must prevent, help, deal with, and, above all, we must succeed in the integration policy. This includes, among other things: important that those we're talking about here are given the opportunity to learn the language properly. This is precisely why it is so important for the government to reintroduce Norwegian education in asylum recipients, which is a strengthening of its efforts in this area. It can also help prevent major mental disorders that we see in part of this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1921	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1924	The global picture of conflict is changing from fewer conflicts between nations to more conflicts between groupings within one country. Products used are more likely to affect civilians, especially women and children. For example, the rape of women has become part of the tactical warfare in some conflicts. The use of child soldiers is also widespread. In some areas, there are generations that have experienced nothing but war. The absence of a functioning state leads to the lack of goods that we take as a matter of course — such as school, work, housing and health. There will be fewer asylum seekers in Norway, but more of them will stay. I think the Council of State gives a good answer and a good description of many of the challenges these people face when they come to Norway. From being in a situation where they might, before persecution drove them out of their homeland, feel valuable, they come to a country where they feel totally helpless. A broad and good effort is being made to assist our new countrymen and to provide help for mental disorders and trauma treatment. But we can get a lot better. Unfortunately, it is a fact that many people are experiencing the situation here in Norway, with a long duration of treatment and, therefore, long-term unstable housing, may be able to help to reinforce the mental health problems that each individual has. For some, it can also cause new mental illness. We have heard of people who were initially well-functioning but who have suffered a breakdown in the application process. For this reason, it is good that the Government bets in a shorter period of time, to improve living conditions with special emphasis on families with children, and to have a faster implementation of decisions. An important effort has been made to increase the skills of those working in the auxiliary care system, so that better follow-up can be provided. The inter-pellant shall have a honeymoon to address an important theme. But I think the possibility of having a good discussion is broken by the scratching tone the interpellant has in its post. It is time to give an answer. There is little help in escalating public health care efforts when, after all, the measures that are, after all, preventive are being cut out at the same time. Language, as the Council of State was concerned, is very important in this context. Therefore, it is a mystery to me that the previous government removed Norwegian training for asylum seekers in reception. There have been reports from the receptions that the level of conflict in the receptions has increased since the withdrawal of Norwegian education. The lack of a meaningful everyday life and a language in which everyone could communicate with each other resulted in an increased incidence of threats, violence and sexual abuse against residents in receptions. It has therefore been expressed a great deal of joy by the staff that this government is now reintroducing Norwegian education for asylum seekers in reception. It was probably not lucky either that the previous government cut off all state support for asylum seekers with the final refusal to apply for a stay. People who ended up in a very difficult and precarious situation were thrown straight into the street. I am pleased that the former government partners took on board that it is not a good solution to leave this responsibility to the municipalities. I would also like to use this interpellation debate to point out the following: the glowing commitment we see should have been an expression of a sincere desire to help people in a very difficult situation. Unfortunately, I see a tendency that many will prevent mental problems almost exclusively based on society's need for security. When the Hungarian refugees came to Norway after having fled from communism in 1956, they were received as heroes. There has been a development since the time when today's immigrants do not receive the same warm welcome from all the Nordics. Immigrants who come to our society and experience being met with respect, who get a job, get to use their skills and who are included in social life have a lower risk of mental illness. It is in the meeting between our new countrymen and the rest of the population that integration takes place. That is why I challenge each of us to accept a responsibility to welcome our new countrymen. It's instructive. It's personal enriching. It also provides a socio-economic profit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1939	Psychiatric problems in patients with a migrant, refugee and asylum background were particularly highlighted in the Psychiatric Surgery Plan. Since the closure of the clinical activities of the Psychosocial Centre for Refugees in 2002, it is now common for the DPSs, psychiatric outpatient clinics, to provide treatment to this group. One of the problems facing the DPS is economics and manpower. Economy in relation to this group means interpreting services that charge the budgets. I think it's important to look at it especially, so it doesn't affect other groups of patients. Stable staffing and staffing of professionals are important, not just for this group, but for all groups who need treatment on the DPS. Everyone has a mental health. Immigrants may be at greater risk in this respect than the majority of the Nordics, not least from their backgrounds in the country they come from, but also because they live in a society where they may not feel at home. There's a conflict between two cultures. There is no doubt that both children who have grown up here, and those who come here, feel that they are being drawn between two cultures. This is reinforced by allowing them to train integration as long as they want. A lot of people are affected by events before they came to Norway, but of course many are also affected by events here. Every day, abuse occurs. We see that crisis centres have a lot of children and women. In child protection, we see a strong increase in immigrant children who have difficulties at home. We also know that infants are still being transfigured, which must be a cruel event – in fact far worse than being subjected to a rape – but the offenders are not being punished. It's clear that the baby-sitters are taking this further into their lives, and there can't be any doubt about it. Those who are subjected to coercion, or the threat of it, must experience a very psychological pressure. The women are often forgotten. Men become visible, they are exaggerating and can perform actions that end up under mental health protection. Many immigrant women have major mental problems, both in relation to social isolation and that they have been subjected to violence and still are. I think that this group also needs to be raised higher, that it is necessary to reach those women who are not themselves seeking help in the health sector. Psychiatric problems are still taboo in the immigrant communities, much more than in the Norwegian population. When women and children in these environments have mental problems, it is not always they get help, if it is not so serious that it is revealed completely automatically. We've focused a lot on men, and it's very important, especially in relation to the risk to society for the rest. You can't just think about the patient you're dealing with. Risk assessment and proper treatment is something that needs to be followed up, and I also heard that the Council of State now said that it was researched with violence. Otherwise, part of the immigrant population reacts differently to drugs, so you might need more research to know how to treat it correctly, but also to reach everyone who needs it. I think we also have a prevention job here in order not to develop even more mental disorders, and perhaps to help those who don't get along that easily.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1958	The interpellant is raising an important debate on mental health in the immigrant population. In all debates on mental health, it is important to point out that the vast majority of people with mental disorders do not represent a danger to others. Some things in which people with mental disorders commit criminal acts are serious and hard to deal with, but fortunately this is very limited. The great extent of human tragedies is primarily in relation to all those who do not receive adequate help for their traumas, depressions or sufferings. Although we initially want the ordinary service to take care of everyone independently, it is important to recognise that we need some specific measures for people with special challenges. It is important that services meet the different needs of different people. Although people with a minority background are as different as us, there is no doubt that many have had traumatic experiences that are highly human to have a psychological response to. Studies of the Nordics who fled to Sweden during the war illustrate this. General Birgit Lie delivered a doctoral thesis on forced migration and trauma in 2004 showing the importance of investing in preventive mental health protection for refugees, as was also the case with the Council of State. A comparison between immigrants, asylum seekers and the Nordics showed that there is a greater risk of entering the psychiatric emergency ward if you are an asylum seeker than is the case for immigrants and the Nordics. That's what Valentina Iversen writes at NTNU in his doctoral thesis. The co-operation administration opened up a national centre of expertise for minority health. One of the aims of the establishment was to ensure better competence in the occupational health of refugees and immigrants. We also hope that the National Centre of Competence for Violence and Traumatic Stress will contribute to the development of knowledge that provides better mental health protection, including for people with a minority background. The same applies to regional psychosocial teams for refugees. These measures are important but not sufficient. Having a mental disorder is in itself a significant burden. Not being able to communicate with others about their suffering due to linguistic or cultural barriers is a serious additional burden. I am glad that the language training will come into place again. A mentally ill patient admitted to a day-care facility here in Oslo told me that he had interpreted two hours a week. That means he was in practice isolated 166 hours a week, despite being seriously ill. Most of us would probably get sick just for that reason. I have previously addressed the issue of access to interpretative services with the Council of State, and I would like to stress that this is also important in relation to mental health protection. As the interpellant pointed out in his intervention, barriers may also prevent people with a minority background from coming into contact with mental health protection. The proposal for an information campaign is constructive in this way. Mental health protection must generally be easily accessible, including for this group. The establishment of outpatient teams is likely to contribute to this. In the framework of the Roadmap for Mental Health, it has been important to focus on more decentralised services, which will ensure better assistance in the community. The roadmap for mental health is within its ninth year, and the next year is probably the last. In general, there is a tendency for many more to receive help and for many more to seek help. A total of 75 new district psychiatric centres have been built, and commitments have been made for the construction of 3 000 to 4 000 new organised housing for the mentally ill. We also know that operating resources have escalated by many billions, and that it is also invested for the equivalent. But at the end of the day, it's not necessarily just the quantitative quantities that are important and that say something about the quality of services. It is the user's experience of the meeting with mental health protection that is crucial. From this perspective, we're not at the end of the road. Better mental health protection, including for refugees, remains a priority area for action in the future. I am pleased that the Council of State is following up and developing the work and offer that the Cooperation Administration started. I feel that there is a cross-political agreement to invest more in this area. It is good that there is impatience in finding good solutions and getting a good offer in mental health protection, including for the immigrant population.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e1973	‘People with a minority background living in Norway are more at risk of mental health problems and mental illness than the general population. They also have less opportunities to get help and treatment. These are unreasonable differences resulting from structural conditions in the Norwegian society in general and in the service sector in particular.’ These are the first sentences of the foreword of a booklet that we have all received, called ‘Psychiatric health in a multicultural society’, published by the Council for Mental Health. I want to base my article on excerpts from that report, because I think it is so wise that it gives cause for reflection. The Mental Health Council states: ‘In order to address the first problem, namely an increase in the incidence of mental illness, general integration and welfare policies need to balance inequalities in living conditions and living conditions between the immigrant population and the majority population. Psychiatric health is closely related to living conditions’ – we know that – ‘and the best prevention work on mental disorders is to create good living conditions that contribute to mastering, participation and inclusion’. Already there, I think there's pretty good reason to sit down and reflect on whether that's the way we meet this challenge or not. I believe that the interpellant, who has taken up an important theme, also has reason to reflect around exactly that. I think that's what the representative Stokkan-Grande said a lot wisely about. The Mental Health Council further states: ‘The second problem, that people with a minority background receive less and less help than the rest of the population, must be addressed with a systematic minority perspective at all levels of service provision, more cultural awareness of health services and more knowledge of minorities and mental health. Many immigrants have no knowledge of how and where to seek help, what to refer to, and who to refer, and not least of importance, what to get help for.’ So it's not like this, for example. could get the impression of the article from Vigdis Giltun, that this is primarily about having to change and do things differently. It's probably so much about how we organize a multicultural society with real inclusion, and where we stop dividing into them and we, them and us. I want to say that for the Government, with a strong focus on social inequalities in health, this goes straight home, because we know that it is developing a subclass in Norway that is colored. It's a huge challenge, because poverty, lack of housing, differences in living conditions affect mental health, perhaps to the immigrant population in particular. Then there may also be other types of problems that we do not explain structurally, but which we explain by ethnicity. It's a dangerous development. The Mental Health Council also states that in order to ensure that all those in need of assistance are provided with the assistance they require, ‘a recognition is required of the fact that a similar offer is not always in practice an equivalent offer’. We know that we've been working on women's policy issues for so many years, that equality in terms of offers does not mean equality in terms of results, but on the contrary, it often works discriminatoryly by making the result different and reinforcing inequalities. Therefore, provision is needed. In addition, it is important that both the marine and service communities work towards normalisation of and more knowledge of mental health. We have gone a long way in our Western democracy to create transparency about mental disorders and mental problems. Here, too, there is a long way to go in many minority communities, and that way has begun to go. Many people are doing a good job today, including: journalist Noman Mubashir, who has addressed this. He says, among other things: that regardless of the role of immigrant youth, generalisation in itself is psychologically stressful. He's also talking about that we have to take this up, talk about it, just like the support center movement has always said, you have to talk things over, don't shut it up. We are facing a challenge from the Mental Health Council, namely with regard to the Action Plan for Integration. I think it's worth noting and taking care of. They believe that ‘it is a clear weakness that mental health is not specifically addressed in the action plan’. There I believe that we can play a role, as there are representatives here from several different committees who can help to make these action plans better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e2026	‘Many refugees become mentally ill as a consequence of the asylum policy pursued by Norway.’ This was said by the psychiatrist and section supervisor at Stavanger University Hospital, Jones Schanche Olsen, to Stavanger Aftenblad on 15 November 2006. I think he has a point. It is very important to focus on the treatment of asylum seekers and refugees with mental problems in society. This was an important theme at the Nordic's largest psychiatry conference, the Schizophrenia Days, in Stavanger before Christmas. The title of the conference was ‘Has wounds on the soul color?’. There is no doubt that the professional communities are concerned about the matter. What about us politicians? I am very pleased with the debate we have in the Chamber today, and thank the representative Holmberg for promoting this interpellation. We politicians must take this group seriously. We need to see the relationship between living in the uncertainty of an asylum recipient and mental health. The situation now is that we have a system that makes the mental health of asylum seekers and refugees worse after they get here. They're basically a vulnerable group. Many asylum seekers and refugees in this country have traumatic events and reactions to them in their luggage. Even more serious is the fact that there are just these people, those with mental disabilities and those with disabilities, who the municipalities do not want or want to live because they are resource-intensive. In addition, if they are irretrievable, they may be at risk of being in the reception of asylum for even more years. There's no limit on how long we can keep people there. UDI writes in its report on long-term reception in April 2003: ‘At some point, it may be asked whether the authorities are given a responsibility to cut through and set a line. Whatever the original reason, the timing itself will raise questions about the relationship of authorities with human rights.’» This will be one of the many important issues we need to address when presenting the new Foreign Affairs Act. We must conduct a debate that goes far beyond the political lines in which we owe each other in relation to which government has done the least and most. This is about safeguarding human rights in our country. We have to do that together. Consider living for years on asylum recipients without right to work, without proper living conditions and without a good social network. Yes, if you're not already sick, there's at least a great chance that you'll be there during your stay. It's unworthy, and I think we're doing these people a great wrong. Is it right that Norwegian asylum recipients, at least those I have seen, have a lower standard than Norwegian prisons? I know for my part that I had seen quite black at a stay in one of the country's asylum recipients. This is a health debate, but refugees and asylum seekers must have an opportunity to live a life that does not make them sicker. It has to do with asylum policy. The waiting time must be reduced. You need to get good Norwegian training. We need to bet on non-governmental organisations that contribute with social networks. We have to offer healthy living conditions. We have to give help to self-help. If we mean this is a group of extra mental stress, it's paradoxical that we have a system and a policy that actually adds to them. The representative, Holmberg, was involved in the United States and the integration policy. We have a lot to learn from the United States when it comes to getting people to work quickly, and when it comes to using non-governmental organisations in networking, in inclusion work. If we are to take good care of those seeking protection in Norway, we must pursue an asylum policy different from what we are doing today, because it creates disease more than it makes people healthy. We need to step up the work to ensure good treatment and follow-up of the mental health of asylum seekers and refugees, both in the interests of social security and the dignity of individual refugees. Finally, the Christian People's Party is concerned that voluntary organisations need to be involved even more in the inclusion work – in order to create a network around each refugee or asylum seeker. Networks create affinities, and access to auxiliaries in Norway is facilitated.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e2054	For a while in this interpellation debate, I wondered if this was a normal debate on immigrants, or whether it was about asylum seekers and refugees, as interpellant emphasizes that it does. I'm saying this in relation to Vigdis Giltun's posts, which in a way became a general article about immigrants. It's about people with different backgrounds, who might have come here a long time ago, and who might not have come because of persecution, war or torture, but who came here because there was work to get. They got it, and we needed it. We have a lot to take back from giving these people back some of what they've given us. It's very difficult for most people to come to Norway and seek protection, because behind these people, earlier in their lives, it's often a story that we can't easily imagine. War, persecution, a life under constant threat puts traces in the human mind. We don't need much knowledge of the human psyche to understand that such experiences set a trail, and also in many cases lead to a change in behavior. In meeting people who have stayed in Norway, I have seen that deep traces and painful experiences will always be there, and that there are events that will shape them for the rest of their lives. The centre party believes it is a common goal in our welfare society to give people who have been on the run, a health offer, who can help them to live as well as possible, where traumatic life can be cured as far as possible. Asylum reception is by no means the best place to live. It has to be temporary, and it's a voluntary residence offer. But many live there long, yes, for too long. Therefore, it is positive that the Government emphasises measures to reduce the duration of treatment and to ensure a rapid settlement. Living in another culture is hard. Language is a key to understanding. Therefore, it was absolutely necessary to reintroduce the language training, which was removed in 2003, during the Co-operation Board. The Council of State mentioned in its intervention violence and threats in the asylum recipients, which shows that living there is challenging and difficult, but also tells of the very unstable life situation of individuals. A survey of these problems is underway as a starting point for this to come to life. As demonstrated by the intervention of the Council of State, refugees and asylum seekers shall be assisted by the ordinary health and social services. Competence in specific life dreams is important. Therefore, regional resource centres for violence, suicide prevention and traumatic stress will also be very important. They shall contribute to the development of competence. They shall be able to provide guidance to specialist and community health services in difficult areas of psychiatry. There is a need to strengthen treatment provision for traumatised patients and torture victims. It is therefore very good that the Council of State in the mission document has called for the development of clinical environments with competence in this issue. In the end, I just want to say that I was a little surprised at the entrance to this interpellation from Kari Lise Holmberg, in the sense that I feel that an interpellation more is going to be an invitation to discuss things in a very good way without coming up with so very clear political-- [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e2077	The President must ask that a person respect the speaking time. It's also important in an interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e2080	The representative Holmberg took up an important matter that has many different elements in it. People seeking protection face a new social system, new gender roles and a new language. Some experience racism and discrimination in the housing and labour markets, as mentioned earlier in the debate, as well as the lack of family and friends. But it also means new opportunities to get a better life. Refugees have experienced a lot: violence and loss of family, stress during flight and exile. Many asylum seekers and refugees are very vulnerable to stress factors, so that they have a lower threshold of stress, and they tolerate less before psychological reactions occur. For some of the refugees, loss of family and friends is something that is not out of place, but a living under a constant threat that they may lose more. Some have been tortured, resulting in a violation of both personality and emotional life. Many asylum seekers awaiting treatment of their asylum application are in a particularly vulnerable situation. Some are very isolated, and many lack meaningful activities, combined with a lack of certainty about staying. This can be very mentally debilitating, even for people with a robust psyche. The left considers that the right to asylum is fundamental and that anyone seeking asylum has the right to try their case within the framework of legal certainty. Against this background, the duration of treatment for asylum seekers must be reduced, but without jeopardising the level of detail of each individual application. In principle, the Directorate-General for Foreign Affairs has strict self-imposed guidelines for the duration of proceedings. But long stays and a high number of arrivals make it impossible to follow their own guidelines, and the trust in the processing time is undermined. The left will therefore have a statutory shorter procedure. There must be a lower threshold in order to obtain gender-based asylum. The left wants a stronger protection for women and children who are threatened or subjected to violence and oppression. Today's asylum practices and decision-making process are not necessarily adapted to the needs of the child. Therefore, the ‘best child’s protection concept must also apply to refugee children. One must therefore make the best possible offer to lone minor refugees/asylum applicants. The left supports in principle the transfer of responsibility for lone minor asylum seekers to child protection. However, such a transfer requires a strengthening of the competence of child protection in their work with children and young people with a minority background in general, and with single minor asylum seekers in particular. A transfer to child protection without a transfer of competences could lead to even more severe impact on children than at present. Neither are young people spared traumatic experiences in war or in flight. In many young people, there are different outcomes, such as lack of sleep and concentration, which in turn make young people irritable, experienced and have a different way of being. The consequences of different symptoms are that it may be difficult to acquire knowledge in a school situation. School health services, both health sisters and others, can be important interlocutors and support players for children and young people when life faces challenges. Facilitation to play with other children, including children who do not live in reception, the organisation of leisure activities and the ability to use their abilities is important for children and young people to have the most normal growth possible. Being able to live with parents is usually a protective factor for children. Lone minors are therefore a very vulnerable group. It will therefore be important for these children to receive an additional follow-up, with the possibility of a safe adult contact. Furthermore, a good follow-up to psychiatry and a close follow-up through regional psychosocial refugee teams will be important. Through a comprehensive, equivalent and good health offer, a greater degree of dignity will be given to people seeking protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e2099	People are shaped by the background they have. The fact that people who have experienced distress, poverty or war are affected by this and have a higher risk of mental illness is easy to understand, even though the sufferings many have suffered are difficult for us to grasp. Although many receptions and municipalities do a good job in relation to the mental health of asylum seekers, there is room for improvement both at system level and at individual reception. Long waiting in reception is a major obstacle to creating a good psychosocial environment, because it creates uncertainty and unforeseeability in the individual's life situation. An important measure is to disseminate knowledge about the good actions. Another important measure is to ensure meaningful activities. An example is Norwegian training, because it contributes to activity, communication, integration and mastering. I am therefore pleased that the Government has proposed, and the Stortinget adopted, the means of carrying out Norwegian education from the autumn of 2007, after this offer was removed during the previous government. I want to use most of my post to focus on the young people who are applying for protection in Norway. The consequences of war and crisis are becoming increasingly globalized. Of the world’s many young victims of such conflicts, some live in Norway as refugees and asylum seekers. Some go to Norwegian schools. Many have also come to Norway as single minor asylum seekers, without family. Norway has committed itself to helping minor refugees and ensuring that they are given opportunities for education and a life of security. Young people are particularly vulnerable to abuse and abuse — and particularly vulnerable — in areas of war and crisis. Among people who flee from war, the children have lived most of their lives in this very life situation. These are children who may have witnessed terrible events that will follow them for the rest of their lives, and who they need help to handle. I agree with the Council of State that it is important to have an overall approach to mental health and mental problems in several areas. Children with mental disorders need to be caught. Through schools, the school leisure system, health centres and not least through kindergartens, signals can be interpreted and understood to help children. Not least, I would like to stress the importance of the school health service. It has been found that the offer of school health services varies for school students, both in relation to different urban areas in Oslo and between different cities and municipalities throughout the country. Number of children per day annual work ranges from well under 200 in some parts of the city or municipalities to well over 1200 elsewhere. School health services play an important role in the prevention of various health problems for children and young people, and good provision must be ensured, irrespective of their place of residence. One challenge is to recruit more psychologists in the municipalities. For many, it is important to get the help where they live and belong, in their own municipality. However, while primary health services are important, it is also very important to take care of and further develop acute competences through heavy, comprehensive disciplines. People react differently, and the need for help varies. Many will therefore benefit from getting help as close as possible where they live, while others with special disorders, and perhaps having undergone special traumas, need help from a specialised professional community with special competence in the respective areas. Therefore, it is important that we bet on such a professional environment. I am pleased that the Government will now propose to the Storting to introduce a waiting guarantee for children and young people with mental or drug-related problems. I don't think I promise by promising my council support for such a proposal. I am also pleased that the Government is implementing measures to improve the situation of children coming to Norway as asylum seekers. As has been pointed out, care for lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 15 shall be transferred to the protection of children from 1 October 2007. Lonely minor asylum seekers are children who have a special need for protection and support. Very many of them come from war-torn areas and are deprived of the opportunity to be with their parents. Lack of child-care competent staff in asylum recipients is a challenge – low requirements for external supervision as well. I therefore hope that a transfer of responsibility for child protection will provide children with a much better housing and care provision, with closer and better follow-up than they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e2129	In different parts of the world, children live in war and disaster situations. The effects survive in the children long after the bombs have fallen, or the earthquake has evened their homes with the earth. Many refugee children and asylum seekers with such traumas have also come to Norway. Some of them live in receptions with parents or other caregivers, and some have come to Norway alone. Children with experiences of war and flight often have emotional problems that make it difficult for them to function well in everyday life, both in kindergarten, in school and in leisure. The network of adults around the child constitutes the most important support players in a child’s life. It is essential that these children meet adults with good competence in the field of violence and trauma. Nearly ten years ago, a nonprofit foundation was established in Bergen, the Children and War Foundation. Together with a group of professionals from the Institute of Psychiatry in London, staff from the Center for Crisis Psychology in Bergen established this foundation to ensure that assistance to children after war and disasters was based on methods that were well documented, which had shown that they worked. At the same time, promoters wanted to stimulate more research on children experiencing war and disasters, as increased knowledge allows adults to help them understand better and more effective relief measures. For the foundation, a manual was developed to help children after war and disasters. After use in different parts of the world, it is now well documented that the manual reduces post-traumatic distress and depression. Tens of thousands of people, in fact both adults and children, have been helped. Children in Norway who have come from war - torn areas elsewhere in the world are also being helped. Through group schemes, children learn what they can do to get control of and dampen memory images that constantly plague them after what they have experienced, or help them to approach what they have become very afraid of afterwards. They are helped to dampen the body by means of relaxation methods and other methods that dampen physical distress. In almost all group schemes, expression methods are also used where children can express what they have experienced through drawing, playing or systematic writing. Working through the manual can help the children to store the bad memories in such a way and in such a place in the brain that it no longer activates the brain alarm centre for anxiety and horror. Fewer nightmares and better school concentration mean a major step forward for the hardest hit children. It is very important that this work is maintained and further developed. We have committed ourselves to helping all children in war and disaster. It is clearly stated in Article 39 of the Children’s Convention: ‘Parties shall take all appropriate measures to promote the physical and mental rehabilitation and social reintegration of a child who has been subjected to: any form of abuse, exploitation or abuse; torture or any other form of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment; or armed conflicts. Such rehabilitation and reintegration shall take place in an environment conducive to the health, self-respect and dignity of the child.» This is also a good prevention against the development of long-term dreams later in life. I am very proud that we have such an offer developed in Norway today, that it works so well, and that others have benefited. I also hope that the Government will continue with the important work on the field of violence and trauma initiated by the Bondevik II government, which the Council of State has also confirmed today. The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress was opened in August 2004. The Centre does not itself conduct clinical activities but contributes to the provision of the normal services with the necessary competence. The clinical activities shall be carried out by the ordinary auxiliaries. It would be exciting to hear even more about how the Government will further develop this important work, and about what concrete, new initiatives the Government will take on the field of violence and trauma, which are also about mental health for those affected, and also for those who will help them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e2153	Psychiatric health and integration work are inextricably linked, linked to each other as two sides of the same matter. That is why we should actually have two state councils in the Chamber today. I think I have heard several important and interesting contributions during the debate, but I would like to comment a little on the input from the Council of State and from the representative Stokkan-Grande, who have both actually done a great deal of that the Bondevik II government has removed Norwegian training from the asylum recipients. It is also part of the story that when the Bondevik II government joined, the institution of asylum was under a great pressure, with up to 18 000 asylum seekers in line. A lot of them were going out again. The municipal minister, then Erna Solberg, started a completely necessary reorganisation and structuring. One of the measures was to remove Norwegian education, precisely because so many had to leave the country again. Today we have 4 000 – 5 000 asylum seekers and a completely different situation. That is why the Right also voted to reintroduce Norwegian education in asylum recipients, precisely because we fully agree that it is important and absolutely fundamental to learn Norwegian as early as possible and as quickly as possible. Language training, rapid residence, rapid education and work are the three basic factors for successful integration and for ensuring good mental health for the individual. I am also pleased that the Christian People's Party focused on the importance of including non-governmental organisations. I wish that non-governmental organisations in Norway could have far more opportunity to participate in our integration work. There we all, I think, have a job to do. Then I think it is good that the Council of State follows up and evaluates the measures taken. In conclusion, in the few seconds left, I want to draw out one area for the Council of State that I believe you can follow up without spending a lot of money, and that concerns individual plans. In many places, individual plans are the exception rather than the rule. That was also reflected in the report from Telemark, which I referred to instead. If people who have mental problems and have met a lot of relaxation and resistance from before become throwing balls in our system, it creates even more stress and pressure. You can ask yourself whether any of the ticking bombs we've had around the country can just be because we haven't taken this seriously enough. I know from my own work experience how important it is, how good action it is, with individual plans for those who need it. Then you connect all the floors and all the help departments around the individual person and give it important and necessary help.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e2168	Representatives said: ‘Humans are shaped by their background’. That's what I think I was good at, and I think it's quite right. Of course, this also applies to the important question that has been discussed here today. I agree that it has been said very important and very well – I now look a little away from the last post of representative Holmberg, who again tried to draw up a political debate on what we disagree about – and I hope that we can get together on what we actually agree on. Then we have to record that in some areas we disagree, but there should be a connection between talk and practice. To prevent mental illness among children and young people, including those in this group, it is important that we do enough of what is involved in preventive health work. Several have mentioned kindergartens, schools, school health services, leisure activities, not least, work, housing, income — all the things we know are causes of living conditions. We have to bring down the process period, so that you do not live in asylum recipients for as long as unfortunately it is. Especially bad for kids, but also for adults. All of this is going on, and that's what we on the Government's side are trying to do. Then I fully agree with the representative, Sjøli, that the service we are offering must, of course, be adapted to the needs of each individual. That means that there may be different things that suit different people. This applies to refugees and asylum seekers, as to others. I agree that interpreting services are also important, and that language is absolutely essential, that it is very important. The representative of Thorkildsen was at the Council for Mental Health, which has focused a lot on this. I agree with the representative that they are doing a good job, also to this group of mental disorders. I think we have a lot to learn from them and their pointing out that much of this is just about social inequalities in health, and how we're going to attack it in a broad sense. So to the representative Davøy: The government is set to develop the offerings we have in the field of violence and trauma, now built on the five regional centres that we are about to open across the country, pooling competences, exploiting it in all parts of the country, in the municipalities and in the specialist health services. I think it's a very important tool to build on. So all the while to the representative Holmberg who at the tamp took up the question of individual plans. I fully agree with that. It's a general challenge. That also applies here. The government intends to simplify individual plans. I think they're too extensive as they are today. We're going to make them simpler, and we're going to make them real. I realize that too many people are talking about a piece of paper that doesn't really work. We all have to try to help make it work, because in that way it can also be a contribution to the big effort to make the offer to this group better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e2190	The debate on substance is then closed. 13th end.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e2208	For the past six months I have tried to get into this in many ways unexplained disease that affects so hard, myalgic encephalopathy – ME. I have received a number of enquiries in writing, and I also spoke to relatives, ME-sickness, user organisation and professionals. Some of what strikes me is the disagreement in trade unions about this being a neurological disease. I find that striking, as the World Health Organisation already classified ME as a neurological disease in 1969, with diagnostic code G93.3. A departmental conference at Haukeland University Hospital recently said the following to the journal Sykepleien: ‘Getting into the ME debate is like sticking your hand into a waffle ball.’ IACFS, the International Association for Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, organises annual international conferences, with research and clinical experience on the agenda. At these conferences, according to the ME Association of Norway, there is no disagreement as to what the disease is, namely a serious disease with neurological, endocrine and immunological disorders. At the IACFS International ME Conference in January this year, it was highlighted that research is being carried out in several parts of the world to find unique diagnostic tests, the causes of ME and good treatment options. There are more than 4,000 published studies on ME, according to Professor Anthony Komaroff at Harvard Medical School. Another organization, the CDC, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, launched an information campaign in November 2006, where they concluded that several thousand research articles have been published on ME, and that this research has demonstrated that ME has an underlying biological pathology, that there is nothing to be imagined, and that the state is not psychic. Dr. William Reeves, Head of Chronic Diseases at CDC, has stated the following: ‘We have demonstrated, as others have, that the degree of disability in people with ME/CFS is comparable to multiple sclerosis, AIDS, the final stage of renal failure and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The severity corresponds to other well-known serious medical conditions.» The main trigger for the disease is an initial infectious disease. It goes back in patients, in trade unions, etc. The symptoms are fatigue in terms of total energy failure. Some compare it to ‘flat batteries’, flu sensation, memory and concentration problems, headache, sleep disturbances, temperature control disorders, blood pressure and heart rhythm disturbances, hypersensitivity to light, sound, smell and touch, muscle and joint pain, muscle tremors, gastrointestinal disorders, food intolerance. To varying degrees, many of those who have ME will be affected by this. It was a little interesting that last night when I was working on this interpellation, a young man working here in the Storting came into my house. He knew about the interpellation and told him that he had his young wife ill at home. I just sat down and wrote about these symptoms and asked what symptoms she had. What he said went straight into at least five to six of these. I thought that was interesting. I am pleased that the Council of State has signaled so clearly that she will initiate measures for ME patients. The report of the National Health Knowledge Centre, which came in spring 2006, has been widely held. The ME association withdrew from the work on the report, because they believed that the user's experience and knowledge were not sufficiently taken into account. They believe that the report should have been withdrawn. This is serious at a time when user involvement becomes more and more critical. In addition, the patients they represent know the disease on the body. However, the difficulty with this disease is that there is no simple cure or a recognised treatment that is agreed on – which can also be understood from the fact that Norway does not agree on the classification of the disease in the professional settings. What do patients in Norway say? They say they are not believed. Many experience misdiagnosis and mistreatment. For example, physical activity for many will lead to a deterioration. Being treated for a depression you don't have, doesn't help either. Many people tell about a year's illness before they were diagnosed and about a health care system that is ignorant. Some people are being treated or examined for single symptoms, such as dizziness, stomach and bowel problems, or the other symptoms that I mentioned earlier, but the nuclear symptom, total energy failure, is nobody taking care of, says many patients. Symptoms may vary in intensity. Not everyone gets hit as hard over time. But it's amazing how many people are actually hard hit, not least young people who lie – and have been lying – for years, totally isolated from sensations that they can't relate to, and isolated from family members and children, often in their own homes, lying in a dark and quiet room. It is the sickest I am particularly concerned about today, because many total offers are missing, as I understand it. There is no doubt that these patients need a treatment offer where they are protected from sensory impressions and where the patient’s own experiences of the disease are taken into account. I will quote from a letter I received from a man a few days ago. His wife is severely affected by ME and has been bedridden for 17 months as a nursing patient. He says the following: ‘I am grateful for the sincere willingness to provide the best care, but in the middle of genuine care, I lack a professional competence that enables me to understand the nature of the disease and partly its peculiarity. The professional training of those who daily care for severe ME disease is totally absent. There is something fundamentally wrong when I am not a medical professional, who has to produce literature for both regulars and those who have entered the daily care of my wife." He is also concerned with disputes both in the political health and medical disciplines, which he believes was clearly identified in the National Knowledge Centre report. He says, ‘I was so optimistic when the report came, because then I thought it would be a step forward in health policy work that could make it easier for the ME sick and their relatives: that significant funds were spent on training and empowerment for health professionals. The creation of special-layered institutional spaces for ME patients.’ He continues: «In retrospect, it can be seen that the report has been used substantially to divide the professional environments, creating greater distances between those with the greatest professional competence in ME. The purpose of the report was to get the multidisciplinary medical staff to stand together and to better carry out the best possible diagnosis and treatment of ME.’ ‘But’ – he says at the end – ‘As far as I can see, this goal is not achieved’. Another issue that arises in the cold water of the disease is the lack of social security rights. When professionals disagree on the diagnosis, this can be completely hopeless for patients with ME. Even those who are in need of care have problems with receiving a flat-rate allowance, many say. A totally exhausted ME patient is unable to carry out professional reintroduction, which many people experience is a requirement to obtain, for example: disability pension. I am very concerned about the many ME patients who today do not receive an adequate offer, either from the other line service or from their own municipality. I think it was very wise that the Council of State, following the report of the National Knowledge Centre, asked the Social and Health Directorate to make professional recommendations on the way forward. I also believe that the technical recommendations are good. But it's really urgent. Patients and relatives need help as quickly as possible. I look forward to hearing the Council's response to this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e2259	I have received – and get – very many enquiries from people with ME or their relatives, in the form of letters and telephones and in the presence of people. It makes an impression on me, as it does on most others. In the answers I have given and in contact with people, I have stressed that the offer to patients needs to be strengthened, and that needs to be strengthened. In particular, this applies to the very sickest, as was also the interpellant. It is important that health professionals get better knowledge of this disease. That is why it is good that the interpellant draws attention to ME, so that the Storting can also have a broad debate on a disease that affects many, and where many people feel that they are not getting the help they should receive. I also have to say that when I hear stories about how someone is met by the health service, I believe that part of what I hear is unacceptable. All people, including those with ME, shall be met with respect and dignity, listened to, taken seriously and given the treatment necessary in the light of the knowledge they have. It's estimated that as many as about 10,000 Norwegians probably have ME. Of these, it's approx. 300 kids. At least 50 patients are seriously ill and are severely nurturing. We know that the disease development and the prognosis are unpredictable. Some people may be so good that they can go back to school or work, but too many report progressive deterioration. For children and young people, the forecast is better than for adults. I am aware that there is a great deal of professional uncertainty about this disease. This is due, inter alia, to: the absence of a simple diagnostic test and insufficient knowledge of causation and treatment methods. This may be some of the reasons why healthcare has given too little attention to this patient group. This must improve in the future, for everyone will be met in the best way and with the greatest respect. I have recently received the Technical Recommendations of the Social and Health Directorate on the ME on the table. They point out that there is a need for action in three areas of healthcare: competence development and research information, education and user assistance organisation of treatment provision in municipalities and specialist health services; In addition, better provision for welfare schemes is recommended. I will also follow up with the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. I will now immediately launch more measures to improve information on the disease, to strengthen knowledge and competence and to facilitate better treatment and care provision. I will also follow up on that in the budgetary work. In order to ensure national competence building – which is absolutely necessary – I will set up a national competence network for ME. This network shall be based on existing professional environments competent in the diagnosis and treatment of ME patients. This is especially true for professional environments in Bergen and Oslo. In addition, the network shall consist of users, primary health services, care services and other specialist healthcare environments. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health will be responsible for coordinating the network at national level. The Network shall work on national competence building through research and professional development, advice, guidance and education in the specialist and primary health service. For example, it will. be important to assess the need for a separate quality register for ME as a basis for further research into the disease. Priority shall be given to projects concerning the very sickest patients and children with ME. I believe it is absolutely essential that users be actively involved in this work. I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the ME association for the great job they have done and to try to get someone to see what this is all about, and – more importantly – do something about it. Studies have shown that many ME patients have felt distrusted in healthcare. Therefore, there is a great need to disseminate knowledge about the disease. I would also like to give the Directorate of Social and Health a mandate to ensure that the necessary information material is developed and that professionally updated information on ME is posted on the Internet. In particular, it's important that those who work with these patients on a daily basis get more knowledge of ME. I would therefore like to ask the Social and Health Directorate to assess the need to develop a course for health professionals working with ME. I think there's a need for that. Most ME patients will contact their regulars when they notice symptoms of illness. In this first health care meeting, it is important that the patient is well cared for. As with most other diseases, early diagnosis and treatment may reduce the risk of the disease becoming chronic. Already in this year's mission document to regional health companies, I have asked them to use diagnostic criteria to identify patients with ME. I have also asked that regional health companies ensure the provision of treatment for this group. It is important that the provision of treatment and care to ME patients is further developed and well organised both in the primary health service, in the care service and in the specialist healthcare service. Patients with ME are a very diverse group, and there are large differences in functional levels. Therefore, there is also a great need for individual solutions and adaptations. I have recently met representatives of the ME Association. It makes a strong impression on me to hear what the impact of this disease is on the very sickest and on their relatives. Being hit by ME seriously can mean, as has already been said, bedtime for many years, preferably in dark rooms, and where one is completely lavish and dependent on the care and care of others. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the provision of specific services to the very sickest. Sometimes it can be in health care, sometimes in home-based services, or there may be other solutions. I want to support the testing of a specially adapted care and care service for the very sick. This could be done, for example, by: be current with interdisciplinary ambulance teams that can move out to seriously ill people living at home. I think it's necessary. The system of individual levels is particularly important for this group. I'm concerned that this is going to be a good and easy tool to use for anyone dealing with the patient, and I'm going to start a work to simplify the supervisor and get out more information about individual levels for employees, patients and relatives. I am well aware that many patients are satisfied with the courses they have taken in our learning and mastering centres, which some health care companies have. The courses are organised in cooperation with the users, and they will provide knowledge of how to master life with a chronic disease. This type of offer should also be further developed at other learning and mastering centres where possible. Many patients with ME need several types of services both in the specialist health service and in the municipalities. We are now working on a separate agreement with the Municipal Councils on interaction in the field of health and care. This agreement provides for a separate interaction agreement for all municipalities and health enterprises to prevent patients and users from suffering from a lack of cooperation between hospitals and municipalities. It is particularly important for people with complex diagnosis and who have different treatment and care needs, as the ME patients are an example. Many ME patients are young people who aim to return to normal life in school, education and work. Therefore, it is also important that rehabilitation services get more knowledge of this patient group and that they do so in cooperation with the labour and welfare management. Since we know too little about the causes and treatment of ME, it is important to increase the knowledge base through research. There is a lot of interesting international that we should participate in and learn more from, and we also need to make sure that we do more in Norway. Here we have a lot going on, but we need to ensure that international research is made available and disseminated also in Norway. I think it might help to give us some progress on the way to finding out what the cause is, and what more we can do to improve treatment provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-29.ana.ud1174e2311	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. The meeting will now be cancelled, a new meeting will be scheduled at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
