ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e32	We're approaching what may be the knowledge minister's most proud moments in these evening hours. He has already signified with his own ability to stop what he characterises as the privatisation of Norwegian school. In this way, the Minister of Knowledge tries to stigmatise all those who believe that private schools are a good addition to public schools. The Minister of Knowledge suggests that there are some who are in favour of a strong and good public school and others who want to sacrifice the public school on the altar of privatisation for the sake of privatisation. This is a somewhat vehement political starting point and contributes to a serious paralysing of the debate. The Progress Party has one main objective of its school policy commitment: Norway should have the best school in the world. I recognize that I am being depressed on behalf of the nation when we are presented to international studies where Norwegian students in what is to be the world's best country to live in perform far below average. It is no pleasure to read the 2006 Student Survey, which shows that the average Norwegian school population is plagued by so much noise and noise that it is difficult to work in hours. It is not a pleasant thing to see the separation of Norwegian general teacher education: a falling search for teacher training, a lack of vocational guidance for students, a lack of training plans for teachers, or the absence of a school-political drive by the Government. Now, what's that got to do with the law on high school? Is there really any correlation between the law and the quality of training? Yeah, that might be it. But the main reason why I mention this in this debate is that the minister of knowledge has had two main focus in the two years he has held the school political throne. Firstly, he has focused on saving his party leader from a sudden political death. Secondly, he has stopped the development of good schools, just because they are owned by private people. The Progress Party has strong faith in the quality potential of public schools. We're sure that fresh schools would help to redeem part of the untapped potential that lies in public school. There is no reason to believe that competition between schools should work differently from competition between others offering different services. The quality is improved, and the focus of the demand is on the service. It is true that this case shows political dividing lines. But the dividing lines don't go between those who want to privatize the school and those who want to strengthen the public school. For everyone will strengthen the public school. No one will eliminate or reduce the focus on public schools for the benefit of private schools. The distinctions in this matter go between those who will give priority to quality in training and those who will monopolise quality in training. The Progress Party will have equal treatment for all schools regardless of who owns them. We want our schools to put quality and students in focus, and aim to make our young citizens the world's most educated people. We're going to claim in the international knowledge competition by focusing correctly, not on immaterialities. Sweden has a long experience with primary and secondary schools. In 1992, the rules for the approval of fresh oils in Sweden were simplified, and from 1997 the subsidy rate was increased from 85 pst. to 100 pst. the transfers to public schools. There is no prohibition in Sweden on taking dividends from high school, but it is also not allowed for schools to charge pupils for primary school level. A small number of independent secondary schools are entitled to charge the student in order to cover operating costs. Today, there are nearly 500 health schools in Sweden that include both primary and secondary schools. At primary level, about 5 pst. by Swedish students in fresh schools, at upper secondary level goes about. 10 pst. by the Swedish students in fresh schools. It turns out that students at Swedish colleges have better professional outcomes than the average Swedish student. However, it also appears that public schools close to a high school have better professional outcomes than the average Swedish student. This may indicate that the Progress Party is right when we claim that a certain element of fresh oils will actually improve the quality of public schools as well. When the Minister of Knowledge commends himself for stopping what many will call quality development in school, he claims that his powers are from the people, who have pushed for a new line in Norwegian high school policy. The analysis house carried out a study in January 2006 showing that 71 pst. by the population supports or is positive to fresh oils. This may suggest that the authority the minister of knowledge claims to have is not as strong and clear as you can get the impression. The Minister of Knowledge has a tendency to explain his resistance to insinuations around some argumentative main lines. First, he claims that such schools create or reinforce social inequality, and second, that fresh schools should help to drain the public school of resources. Now, according to the NIFU STEP Report 2/2005, no clear evidence has been found that any significant element of fresh schools contributes to increasing social segregation in the areas of high school education. According to SØF report No. 05/06 Nor is there any reason to fear that fresh schools should attract the best of the good students, because one cannot therefore demonstrate that students in fresh schools have a higher level of competence than those in public schools in the same area. However, there may be some major differences between schools that have large incidences of non-schools and schools. It is also worth noting that statevits Svein Tuastad have investigated whether privately owned schools contribute to increasing social segregation. He says to Stavanger Aftenblad on June 13, 2006: ‘Citizens since the 1960s have been right in their ‘warning’ that we would not get a class distinction between public and private schools. [[...]] Today, directors and workers go together in both public and private schools.’ What is just the vision of the Labour Party in this, we heard the representative Huitfeldt say earlier today, is that it is important that everyone should go to the common school. But these colleges are part of the common school, although they are not owned by municipalities and county municipalities. I think it's a bit festive that the official sentinel mentioned is a very well-known SV-man. He gives the following little kick to his own political history: ‘The left-hand side has not only bombed but also shot at the wrong flash.’ Tuastad is aware that the law of free school, which applied until the so-called freezing law, would not give the results that the socialists have claimed. The argument that colleges will help to drain public schools for resources seems strange. One should assume that the cost to each school of no longer attending school would at least to some extent reduce the cost of public school provision. When it is claimed that public schools are being drained for resources because of entries of fresh schools, evidence is never provided that this is the case. Probably some municipalities and counties will benefit from a certain amount of fresh oils, while others will be able to lose something. This is also evident in Swedish studies on how the economy of public schools is affected by an element of fresh schools. To claim what the Minister of Knowledge often does, that the result of having a certain element of fresh schools is a systematic depletion of public school resources, there is no evidence. If the Minister of Knowledge believes that he has evidence of that kind of claim, I hope he uses the opportunity today to provide the professional documentation for his claim. For the Progress Party, it is quite clear that the proposal put forward by the Government was not intended to strengthen the knowledge of the Norwegian school as a whole, nor to contribute to the strengthening of the municipal owned school. The proposal of the Government has a political and ideological basis, and against ideology there are often few factual and professional arguments. Then it happens that a person is blinded by the ideological perfect, and loses the ability to find good, practical solutions to important challenges. Even after the agreement with the Christian People's Party, which is a separate chapter, ideology appears to be the foremost argument for the amendment of the law. Then I'm a little surprised that the Christian People's Party, which has been an exponent of the law of free school, which was adopted by the Bondevik II government, is pleased to achieve some temporary solutions that can be characterized as written down on a sheet. I think the impact of the Christian People's Party was limited, so it may in fact be that the government parties themselves would have made changes after the information given at the open hearing on the law on high school. In fact, it was clearly stated that the bill would also affect those who were not supposed to be affected, and I assume that it would have led to a certain number of thinking activities in the government parties, even without the participation of the Christian People's Party. I am concerned with practical results. Since I do not see the reversal of the Christian People's Party in this matter as something permanent in the socialist direction, I will leave the content of the conciliation and the Christian People's Party's lack of persuasion, and just refer to the setting, which shows in a very good way what has happened. The Party promotes the proposal for the submission of a completely new law on early school leave, which opens up the possibility of full equal treatment for all schools providing training. We are, as mentioned earlier, concerned with quality, not who owns the school. The proposal we are promoting will be transmitted to the Stortinget for treatment there. At the same time, the Progress Party recognises that it is important to try to show what can be the result of the treatment of a new law on high school, if the voters in 2009 were to throw the sitting government out of the government quarter, which of course we have an honest hope of. The Progress Party took part in the negotiations on the Free School Act in 2003, and we still believe that it is a law that is good in relation to the option. We also see that certain adjustments in the law may be necessary to fulfill its original intentions. With that, we neither signal that we have left our primary position on non-discrimination for all schools regardless of ownership, nor that the bill from the Right and the Left will be the result of any future negotiations on a new law, if the voters were to fulfill our dreams in 2009. What we are signalling is that the proposal from the Right and the Left is so close to the compromise that we see today on the non-socialist side, when the Christian People's Party is exempted. I should like to bring up the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e93	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e98	This was a pretty familiar progress party style: drawing a dark picture and then shooting from the hip. I would like to hear a little bit more about the main positions of the Advance Party in private schools. It might be interesting both for the voters and for most people. I would like a little bit of clarification of two themes. We've been a little bit concerned with them in previous debates, but it doesn't matter to get any further deepening. This applies to dividends. Does the Progress Party believe that it should be free of dividends? At least that's how we understand it. How's the student pay? Is it right to understand what it's been said before, that the state is going to finance 100 pst, and then it's going to be up to the schools to be able to make student payments on top of it? Are these the main positions of the Progress Party in private schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e109	I'm reacting a little bit to the way that de Ruiter initiates his question. The policy of the Progress Party is fairly well known, but to claim that a gunman from the hip, I think it is a little higher, especially when we have now tried to obtain some professional evidence of the main position of the Progress Party, and have challenged the Council of State to do the same. Maybe Freddy de Ruiter should focus a little on finding professional arguments for his own policy as well. In terms of dividends, we have no plans to prohibit dividends if the main policy of the Progress Party is adopted. The student payment we think is very well regulated by the market itself, where the owners of the schools are concerned that the quality of the individual school should be the best possible. Obviously, it costs money. We're convinced that those who run these schools will be of quality. To get students, they also have to have low self-payment rates, if they want it at all. Experience shows that the self-payment in the private schools is now lower than the government made up in the previous round.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e118	It was good and liberating to answer the political differences as clearly as we got here. While SV, and the Government, will invest resources in a good public common school, where children are successful and where learning and mastering are in focus, the Progress Party will have full parental payments in SFO – and now we heard that they will allow dividends in private schools – they will have character-based admissions, they will have unit price funding, they will have free establishment rights for private schools, and they will have zero central regulation, for example. in relation to the teacher’s remuneration. Then we don't talk about private schools as a supplement, then we no longer talk about a certain feature of private schools, which the representative was injured to say in his post. My question is: does the representative not see that the combination of character-based admissions, the free establishment of private schools and price financing are just the recipe for increasing differences? Those who can afford to buy quality, while those who can't afford it, have to thank the poorer quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e125	This is typical SV rhetoric. What is real is that today there is free access to start private secondary schools. Regardless of this law, there is free access to it under the Education Act, and those who start schools can therefore require 100 pst. student payment. In accordance with the model of the Progress Party, we shall treat all providers of training services in a non-discriminatory manner, regardless of who owns them. It is, of course, the SV policy that leads to differences in the school area. Today, we experience that more and more people can afford to buy better and better services. With SV's recipe, I am absolutely sure that in a few years we will have a clean private school with only parental payment, because the Socialist Left restricts the freedom of choice to parents and students. If one does what the Progress Party says, and places on quality rather than the public monopoly on the provision of training services, we would have a much, much better school than the Socialist Left Party and this government are able to deliver. Unfortunately, we don't get the fasit of this until history shows it. I hope then I get the opportunity to say from this pulpit to the representative of Åsa Elvik: what did I say?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e134	It could have been tempting to pursue this with commercial schools and dividends, but I should rather read for the Progress Party from the setting, because it says: ‘For the Progress Party, it is more important that the student is offered the best possible offer than that policy principles are rode.’ It was also said in the post that one should not be blinded by ideology and principles. The criticism that has come against the Christian People's Party after this compromise suggests that these are quite empty words. Why doesn't this statement apply to adults without a right to secondary education, who will now have a new chance, all the 6A schools saved, the schools for disabled people, who get an opportunity to move on, plus the schools that now come under the qualification basis, get viable conditions and predictability? It is important to say that the Government could have adopted the entire bill that is on the table, alone – without a Christian People's Party. Is it not the case that the Party of Advancement is tying political principles?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e148	Promoting primary policies by talking about non-discrimination between public and private schools is hardly a matter of principle. It's about finding practical solutions. So we've found practical solutions. We have been negotiating with the Left and Right to find good solutions in this matter. It's just as important for us, as it is for the Christian People's Party, to find good and practical solutions. I understand that the Christian People's Party has a strong need to defend its commitment to this matter in relation to the Government. But that's the way I said in my post, that there was a certain possibility that even the government parties would start a certain thinking activity after all the information we got in the open hearing. The point of open hearings is that we need to obtain information that starts with thinking activities in the Storting, which in turn leads to better results than was the starting point of the Government. I think it would have happened anyway. In terms of dividends and private schools, Sweden has no restrictions. But there's no dividend party in Sweden. 5 pst. by primary school students and 10 pst. by high school students go to private infirmary schools. It's completely unproblematic, even without a dividend ban.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e157	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e160	A good and strong public school is essential. It was the Bondevik II administration that developed, promoted and started the introduction of the Knowledge Lift, which will lead to more and better learning for all students. At the same time, it is important to protect the right of parents and students to choose a different school offer from that of the public, if they so wish. Free schools contribute to the diversity of school provision, while public schools and fresh schools can learn from each other and thus make school better for all students. In an open and liberal democracy, it should be a matter of course that we have freedom of choice. If there are only ten students who make use of the option to choose differently, it is not an argument against freedom of choice. One of the country's foremost tasks is to safeguard the interests of the minority, whether on a religious basis or on a different basis. We have the right to be, think and believe differently. The task of the State is to protect that diversity, inter alia: against abuse by the majority. In other words, it is those who in an open and liberal society will restrict freedom of choice, who have the burden of proof. In my opinion, it must be difficult for the left-hand side to defend that we can drive the cars we want, we can see the movies we want, at the cinema, and we can choose which sofa we want to buy, while there should be strong restrictions on the ability to choose any of the things that mean anything, most for people – education and the future. For the Right, knowledge is more important than ownership. Whether a good school is run by the public or whether it is run by a foundation is not the most important thing, as long as the school provides a good education and a good offer to the students. Such choice is essential to ensure the right of parents to choose education for their children. The essence of this right is to be able to choose something other than what the political majority at any time chooses. The test of whether we live in an open, liberal and diverse society is precisely whether the majority respects the minority's right to choose offers other than what the majority believes is right. Is there respect for a minority being able to choose for their children differently from what the rulers themselves would have chosen? Basically, it's about respecting and accepting inequalities. Respect for this right involves the granting of recognition and financial support also for school offerings that the majority would not have chosen for their children. The 2003 Free School Act represented an important step towards greater respect for parental rights and protection of minority rights. The law contained a right of approval if the school met specific quality criteria and it did not restrict access to the approval of schools for a specific purpose. In this way, schools with a religious or pedagogical alternative were granted a right of recognition, while other schools which were also training according to public curricula were given the same right. The right strongly disagrees with the fact that the new law now becomes a law of discretion, where it is up to the ministry to decide whether schools that otherwise fulfil the law can be approved. The return of the basis for recognition is a step backwards for the students. However, the 2003 law also represented a narrowing. There was a clear prohibition in the law against taking dividends and against silencing students. Such prohibitions did not exist in the old private school law. Students and parents have complex reasons for choosing a post-secondary school. Some students are not comfortable in public schools; others are curious about alternative pedagogical methods. Some want religious aspects to characterize education, others just want to deepen what they care about. Some students may want to take construction or plumbing training with an alternative device. In some cases, what is best for the child cannot be fulfilled within the framework of public policy. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left are therefore very critical that the possibility of choosing differently now should be limited to those who have religious or pedagogical infections in relation to the public school. In addition, the Government now introduces a discretionary law that should not lead to the granting of an authorisation. One of the criteria to be considered by the Ministry is mentioned in the joint comments of the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party. Is there a need for school? This is when I ask the question: What is the crucial need – the needs of pupils and parents, or the needs of the Government? I strongly doubt that a government that has as one of its foremost policy objectives to limit access to schools other than the public, is actually going to say that it is okay, and that there is a need for more schools. The government will allow some types of schools, not others. The restriction undermines parental rights, and it reduces diversity in the field of education. For me, one of the most striking things about this government is that it has an ideology -- it's against solving problems and finding good solutions for people. My view is that it cannot be the school or the system that is the most important, but the people – and in this case the students. Moreover, it is a great paradox that freedom of choice is unlimited for students from families with a strong economic background. There are several traditional private schools in Norway that do not receive state aid for their operation and thus take high school fees. They have existed side by side with public school for many decades, some for over a hundred years. These are the so-called commercial schools. These schools are what are now allowed to be established – freely, without restrictions. It's a big paradox that a law that targets itself to stop the so-called commercial schools, really just opens the gate wide open to the commercial schools. The choice between public schools is also restricted to those with a strong economic background. Just because we live in a country where we don't have free schooling between public schools, with a few exceptions, it's those with a strong economic background who can move and take the children to another school circle, to another city, to another county or to another place in the country. I don't think it's fair that this right is reserved for them with a good economy. We record that the rhetorical government has used against the schools that have started — or have sought to start — under the 2003 law on free schooling, has been very aggressive. The government has assumed that many of the applicants have initially had no honest intentions, and have had very strong results against some of them. We've distanced that rhetoric. Norway needs more, not fewer, school enthusiasts — idealists and people who can think new about school. We have to show confidence in those who want to create a good school. Those who want to start an alternative scheme, whether based on religion, on alternative pedagogics or on public curricula, deserve to be treated with respect. Two research reports, from NIFU STEP and the Centres for Economic Research respectively, were recently submitted. Both reports deal with Norwegian research on Norwegian schools in Norway. There is research that obviously does not fit into the reality of the government parties. That's why they're being ignored. The research reports show that fresh schools have no segregated effect, and it turns out that schools are good at adapting education to students. That's good. In addition, colleges in many places can point to better learning outcomes than public schools, despite the fact that the background of those at high school is just as different as in public schools. This should be an interesting area for the government to explore, because there is nothing so far in Norwegian research that suggests that in Norway, fresh oils lead to segregation. On the contrary, in public schools, differences in Norway are greatest. That research has until now the majority did not want to take on board. Therefore, they are more concerned with talking about fresh oils in all other countries that are not relevant to Norwegian conditions. I believe that the government should investigate more why it is so that in Norway, with a great similarity between schools, there is a huge difference between the students within one school and within one class. In return, there are many countries where there are far greater differences between schools than there are in Norway, where there are also far more health schools than Norway, but where there are far fewer differences between students. The major challenge in Norwegian school is not a certain element of fresh schools, but the enormous differences between pupils in public schools. The government parties and the Christian People's Party have reached agreement on certain aspects of the law, but the main lines of the law are passed on. And there's no doubt that the Right obviously is disappointed with what they are doing in the former Party of the Christian People's Party, which we stood shoulder to shoulder with just against the current government parties and fought through parental rights. Let me go into some of the aspects of the proposition and the agreements between the government parties and the Christian People's Party that I think are most unfortunate: in addition to the fact that it now becomes a law of discretion and a law of purpose, it is such that the new law puts a full stop to the providers who want to offer, for example. a plumbing school or a construction school. The situation of the so-called 6A schools, schools for disabled students, and questions about admissions of adult students without the right to training requiring a chance, are still equally unclear. The question is really just pushed forward in time, but I have not received any final clarification. Everything is clear – until further notice. The final decisions, the possibility of existence for these schools and an offer for these students have not been finally established. In my opinion, it is strange that the only schools that get to specialise in their offer of students' interests and talents are the high-school gymnasiums. They offer a very good offer that is very important to Norway. But why can't similar offers be given in language, technology, real science, dance? Of course, like all other fresh schools, such schools would be prohibited from sibling students. But one could simply be allowed to go to a school that provided one’s own interests and abilities. For seriously chronically ill children who because of their disease live for shorter or longer periods abroad, Norwegian secondary schools shall no longer be approved. This makes the situation of these students, who initially have a lot of stress associated with their disease, even more difficult. They are now going to go to foreign schools, and it makes the transition to Norwegian school more difficult when they return. We get an intensification of access to apply to take increased school money where the schools need it. They often do, precisely because the government has removed the capital grant that helped to make the situation a little easier for the schools. Nor have we been given any clarification on the question of access to continue to provide sibling moderation and clearance. For the Right, there's a big mystery why it's going to be forbidden to start branch schools that run according to public curriculum. Cross-border schools represent a very important offer in many communities and are often engaged in the fight against full emigration. Now the primary schools are being forced to go the path of religious or pedagogical alternatives in order to be allowed to start, sailing about the parents really just want to start and operate according to public curriculum. The right and left promote a comprehensive legislative amendment, whereby we go back to the 2003 law on free schooling as it was before the freezing law, which came in 2006. In addition, we choose to clarify some further provisions already contained in the law, so that e.g.: The prohibition of dividends is clarified even more clearly than before — not because some schools have benefited or because some have shown that they have tried to circumvent the ban on dividends, but simply because we wanted to clarify our existing policy in a social debate that has not always proved to be as pure-haired. Let it be said – neither the Right nor the Left share the strong, visible and sometimes irreparable characteristics of the schools that have operated under the law of free school. I would also like to refer to Mr Dørum's comments later in the debate on the overall legislative proposal. There is not only one community. The right is of the opinion that community is somewhat more than in specific form singular. Community is best placed in an undetermined form of majority voting. In a liberal democracy it must be possible to choose a community other than the public community. For some students who are on their way out of a community and into an outhouse, it is essential that they choose a new community instead. In many cases, colleges can offer that, and I cannot, with my best will, understand why students should be refused to choose it. I refuse to accept that the small minority who, for various reasons, wants to choose differently will not receive respect and protection for their choice. For the Right, diversity and parental rights are fundamental values that we shape our practical policies after. A strong and good public school is not threatened by the minority of students choosing another school. A strong and good public school is threatened by policies that are more concerned with stopping and banning alternatives than with developing and improving public schools. Despite the government's stop of fresh oils, it is difficult to see that the red-green government has made a remarkable strengthening after it came to power. So far, there's less knowledge in school, less openness in school, and not least -- there's little evidence that there's become more resources for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e216	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e219	15 000 places at secondary school were approved by the previous government. Now in its new joint proposal, the Right and the Left say that the establishment of in-health schools which significantly weaken public school provision should not be approved. Was it too many schools that were approved on the basis of the previous law? What would be the number of school places that had been approved with this new legal formula?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e224	How many schools would have been adopted under this law is completely impossible for me to say, because it depends on how many people are applying for permission to go to school. The representative Huitfeldt knows just as well as I do that in the law made in 2003, there were rules that could deter the approval of too many schools if it had significant negative consequences for the community. So it's always been, and so the Right and Left want to make it clear that it's going to be in the future as well. What I think is more interesting than discussing the number of school places, is to discuss one of the challenges that the Labour Party and the other government parties still haven't managed to answer – that's why it's so hard to prevent a small minority from choosing differently, while there are great systematic differences that you can't even out in public school. It's, in my opinion, a far bigger question than if five hundred, thousand or five thousand had applied to start high school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e231	I understand that the representative of Søreide and the right party are provoked by the fact that the new government has stopped the great ideological project that Right had to privatize School-Norway. What the right really tried to do was a political project with our kids who were totally irresponsible. We know from experience from other countries that an increased number of private schools lead to segregation. I want to challenge the representative, Søreide, why it's important for the Right to be against the public school. Why is it so important for the representative, Soreide, to move our kids out of public school and into private school, as would be done with the proposed law on the Right before?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e238	It won't, and it hasn't been, run ideological projects for our kids. I've spent 15 minutes explaining the ideological background of why I think it's important that there is an opportunity to choose. But I react to the fact that the government parties do not have a minimum degree of backwardness in the way they argue. Firstly, I have now explained, and it should also be the government parties that should soon take over, that Norwegian research and Norwegian health schools in Norway do not demonstrate any segregation effect. It's completely uninteresting to talk about what it might have to lead to in England, which has a completely different high school system. Second, it's not like the right is against the public school. It is with respect to report some of the greatest hesitation I have heard. The representative Lena Jensen knows that very well. The right most important task was, when we were in government, to develop, strengthen and improve the public school. The main project of this government is to stop, prevent and prohibit everything, while at the same time ensuring that there is no development of the public school. We've gained less knowledge of school, less knowledge of school and less publicity about school performance. I can't see that's a big step forward for public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e247	The President would point out that the use of the word 'deaf' may not be the best parliamentary expression to be used in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e250	In Eriksen Soreide's posts, she often uses words like choosing a different one, and choosing an alternative, but in between we hear that there is a right to choose something that is similar to the public one, and not to be able to choose something that is different or alternative, when talking about parental rights. Representatives of Free School-Norway have been very positive about the settlement that is now available. Among other things, we have have received good feedback from alternative pedagogical schools, from religious schools and from schools engaged in adult education without the right to secondary education. Representatives from the Right, on the other hand, have characterized this as disappointing, as betrayal, and as hypocritical. Nevertheless, the Right will follow some of the improvements and clarifications in the option they present with the Left today. The difference is that the right is done on paper, while the Christian People's Party has been involved in creating some results. In its alternative, there has also been a need for tightening up the idea of the right to free school. How can this really be related?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e257	First, I would like to say that I do not know which right-wing representatives have used the words «swind» and «shy». At least none of the Right-Representatives are in the room – and it's just me. I just want to clarify it. That we are disappointed, I have explained, and I think the representative Dagrun Eriksen understands that too. When a government submits a bill together and one government party afterwards tries to break out of it, it's clear that it's disappointing political. We are concerned about parental rights, and for us, parental rights are about more than being able to choose religious or pedagogical alternatives. Choosing an alternative is not always about choosing something that is completely different, but it is about being able to choose a different framework for training from what the public school can offer. What we have done in the bill that the Right and Left promote is to clarify the provisions and policies already laid down in the law on free schooling that the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left put forward in 2003. We do that for the reasons I mentioned in my post instead, precisely because the public debate on the law of high school and colleges has not always been as pure-haired. There have been many who have wanted to add fresh schools to their intentions that they have not, and there have been many who have tried to explain that the colleges do something they simply don't do. That is why we found it necessary to clarify further what was already in the law, but there is no new policy in that we have now suddenly become something we were previously opposed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e268	The President wants to ask the representative if she wants to take up proposal No. 2 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e271	That's what Mr. Dørum does.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e276	The representative of Dørum has been given that privilege. It's okay. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e282	The primary public schools are at the heart of the Norwegian welfare model. It's an important arena where all children can meet each other. Children meet others who are equal to themselves, and not least those who have different cultures and cultural backgrounds. We politicians cannot adopt a society based on security and tolerance; we cannot adopt understanding and inclusion. We need to organise a society that, through interaction and experience, will provide opportunities to create this. Even though we come from different homes, from different cultures, and have quite different backgrounds of experience or different skin color, we're all quite alike. Everyone wants the same thing. We want learning, tolerance, understanding, security and inclusion. In a society that is becoming more and more fragmented, and in which it is difficult for many to get a connection and feel a belonging to, it is even more important than in the past to fence around the common school in which our kids go together. The understanding and learning that my daughter gets by going with friends from Morocco and China can never be acquired through literal learning. It's important that we don't develop a society where those who are the same go together. It will contribute to a society that will create greater differences. This means SV, but we are not alone. Researchers and research in this area — and experience — show exactly the same thing. Public high school is the only place in our society where all our kids meet and go together. I am glad that today we are adopting a new private school law that hopefully burys Kristin Clemet’s private school law. The law adopted today replaces the so-called freezing law, which the government started immediately after it came into force. Had we not done this, there would have been about 22,000 new schools, most of them in higher education, in commercial schools. At the same time, this would have happened in our largest center areas. This would change our school structure dramatically. A lot of schools would have been forced to lay down, and many lines would have been forced to lay down. These lines would largely be in vocational training, because they cost the most, and because it was our counties who had to pay for these private schools, that the former government was going to do. I guess it's not really necessary to say that, but for the sake of order, these schools, which one can refer to as commercial schools, are not given the opportunity to start with the law adopted today in Odelstinget. From today on it is called the law of private schools with the right to state grants, the private school law. We've chosen to go back to the old term, because fresh oils are not a good name for this type of school. New private school law means a narrowing of the prevalence of new private schools entitled to state subsidies that do not operate on a religious basis or in a recognised educational direction. At the same time, we have taken into account existing schools and students at these schools. Requirements are now being introduced as a basis for applying for the start-up of a private school. It will be a much narrower road to be approved. This is a law that limits schools to parallels in public. The new private school law is no longer a right law. Even if you meet the criteria, it's not a matter of course you get to start up, but schools can be approved after an overall assessment. The assessment shall focus on, inter alia: the public school structure, and the host municipalities and counties shall be able to make their views known. SV would stress that there will be an overall assessment of schools, even if they meet the entry criteria. In this law, the Children's Convention is very strong – this is because we have a law that puts our kids in the center, a law that focuses on quality, a law that ensures that our kids go to a good school – a school that does them well. The schools currently in service under the law on high school leave are allowed to continue even if they do not meet the proposed requirements on the basis of today. This law shows that the Storting again takes responsibility for our kids. We focus on quality and ensure that our kids get a good quality and good content education, a school that stimulates learning and creativity. A good school is vital for the growth of our kids. This law also lays down the principles on which this government fences: early efforts for lifelong learning. We want, as I have said before, to share in taking responsibility for the growth of our kids. SV is pleased that the Government limits private schools. Several private schools don't raise the quality, they're also a danger to the opposite. When I refer to international surveys and look at countries that we like to compare with, among other things. Our neighbouring countries, you can see the consequences. Finland, for example, which is cutting high in the PISA surveys, and which is a country we like to compare with in quality terms, does not have private schools. Then we can go to our second neighboring country, Denmark, which has a very high proportion of private schools. Danish politicians are now concerned about this development, where they have a very segregated school, where children from the same nation and with the same cultural background go to one school, while other children go to another school. There has been much discussion in Denmark about what this will do in terms of integration, and there is concern about this. We do not want this development in Norway. At the same time, we have gained experience in what has happened in our third neighbouring country, Sweden. There has been a dramatic growth in independent schools in Sweden. What the school says here is that increasing choice poses a risk to students' knowledge. It is said that on the basis of the experience gained, you are very concerned about the development that is taking place in Swedish schools. It is also said that competition for pupils can stimulate schools, but it can also reduce the quality of education by bringing together education and local variants that are not what the workplace or colleges want. All schools are trying to attract students. Variety and a wide range of services are often given priority at the expense of quality in Sweden. This is what Svenska Skolsvärket says. I would also like to thank the Christian People's Party for the good negotiations and for the good results of the negotiations that we have conducted. We now get a law that signals a new direction, and we hope that through this cooperation with the Christian People's Party we have got a law that will prevail over elections. After this debate today and what is in the vote, I am very concerned about what will happen within School-Norway about the Progress Party and the Right at the next crossroads will gain power. This will lead to the release of private schools, which will change the entire school structure that we have in Norway today. With the comments of the Progress Party and the Right in the vote and opinions in the debate today, it will really be 'big business' to run private schools in Norway. I think that would be a danger to the quality of public schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e317	I've met SV in many debates about fresh schools, where they have claimed that training in the Christian faith is not a task for which the state is to pay. In comparison with the Christian People's Party, SV now defends state funding of Bible schools. Bible schools are schools where God and Christianity are centered. On the SV website, a smiling Lena Jensen emphasises that applications for the establishment of new life-synthesis schools now have to be approved by the Swedish Minister of Knowledge. Does this mean that SV has deceived the Christian People's Party? Or does that mean that SV has changed view of the Bible schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e324	For us, it has been very important to enter into negotiations with the Christian People's Party in order to obtain the widest possible majority in the Biggest. It has been a very constructive and good dialogue, and everyone is very happy that we have come to an agreement. The main points of the law are established. That means that this is a law of discretion, but within this law of discretion, we have, of course, assumed that religion is one of the entry criteria that will be important in order to be allowed to start school – this because we set parental rights very high.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e331	I record that the representative Lena Jensen, as some others in the government parties, falls to a lot of inaccuracies when there are no material arguments left. I've asked several times, and I'm making a new attempt now. So we have fresh, Norwegian research on Norwegian fresh oils in Norway. Why do the government parties and the SV refuse to take that research over? Point two: How can the representative Lena Jensen explain that in countries like the Netherlands, where there is a large element of freshness and freedom of choice, the differences between students are very small, while in Norway, which has a small element of freshness and freedom of choice, the difference between students is enormous?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e340	I can go into that report from the Netherlands, but it is a country with which it is very difficult to compare Norway. 70 pst. of Dutch schools are private schools, and very many of these schools are religious schools — a completely different school perspective from that for which the representative Soreide and Right want to open up, which this law we are dealing with today will not prevent. But if you're going to compare with countries that are quite natural to compare with, as Eriksen Soreide also wants to do, countries like Finland, Sweden and Denmark, which I was in my post, we see that the consequences of a free drop of private schools are that you experience segregation. You don't experience inclusion, and you experience that children from different cultures go to different schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e347	The concern I had when I asked the representative Dagrun Eriksen questions about what majority remarks should mean is now confirmed. The representative, Eriksen, said that you run a religious school now, you run an alternative pedagogical school, you go about the right way. If we listen to the representative Jensen, we understand that it should be an overall assessment. It shall not be so – yes, it is approaching almost the rich man who is going into heaven, and it is more difficult than for the camel to get through the loop. Everyone who knows their Bible history knows what that means. Even so quickly in the debate, we have been given two different definitions of whether or not one should be exposed to religious schools and alternative pedagogical schools. The representative may have a chance to clarify it. So the representative is going to have the same question that I asked the Labour Party earlier: what commercial schools are the ones that under the old law on high school education would be able to make a profit? What schools are we talking about? What schools are they?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e356	There are two questions that I can spend quite a long time on, but I only have one minute. First of all, I have to say that we have come to a good agreement with the Christian People's Party, and we are all very pleased with the agreement. We have signed an agreement, and that agreement remains with all parties. But then it's the way the representative's probably got it, that this is a law of discretion, which means that even if you have the criteria you need to be able to start up, it's not safe to start, because this will be an overall assessment of the offer. Then you want to think about how the school as a whole is going to be. Just to end, I can also say that there is no disagreement between us and the Christian People's Party. We fully agree on the law and how this law should be handled for the benefit of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e365	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e368	The centre party wants all children to have equal access to education, regardless of their social background, personal background, housing and financial capacity. We want to secure a good, public foundation where people live. However, parents shall be entitled to choose other solutions for their own children. The centre party's commitment to a new private school law is a six-step work. We marked deep unease in relation to the laws presented by Bondevik II, which were seen in works from 1 October 2003. We were pleased that the Soria Moria Declaration announced a review of legislation and support schemes for private schools in order to streamline the creation of schools that do not constitute a religious or educational alternative to the public school. We were behind a temporary freezing permit that was strict, but necessary. We carried out a nine-time reading and follow-up of hearing aids, which in our view should be listened to when designing a permanent law. We were pleased with the laws, as she was presented, and we were also pleased when the committee had completed its work and carried out a broad anchoring of a new law, which was even more in line with our vision – which thus means a law that will last for a long time, because both the government party and the Christian People's Party are behind it. Let me elaborate on this something. There was a difference between the design of the hearing and the legislative proposal that was put forward, at a significant point, for example. the minimum requirement for student numbers was reduced from 20 to 15 in Norwegian schools and from 15 to 10 in Norwegian schools abroad. We perceive the last as voice, and it was important, also the signal given about exceptions. It was then, for example. The Mali ball, which was later an important symbol thing, secure. Uncorrected adults are another important theme. There are many adults today who lack final competence. After the bill, some of them will be able to take education, for example. in agriculture, horticulture and some crafts. Then important clarifications were made both in the case of the purchase of training services and in relation to what is termed 'ambulating schools'. Through the cooperation with the Christian People's Party in the Committee, the decision today will provide greater clarity and foresight, both for the students who are currently involved with this type of school, and also for the schools who have this kind of activity. For growing up without justice, the proposal today means that the schools that are currently operating this type of important activity can continue. For the 6A balls, there was a clean-up warning. Now there is security for those who naturally belong to their homes under both trade and private spheres, whether they have a Bible school, an art school, a natural practice, or other subjects for their purposes. And then it's also good that there's more flexibility when it comes to shifting by trades and hours, but that one at the same time has common learning goals. The laws adopted today show clear dividing lines in Stortinget. The step-by-step part opens the introductory way with its goal of the world's best school. We can then record that we have quite different insights into what this will mean with the world’s best school. Both the Progress Party and the Right are persuasive in its approach, perhaps somewhat more surprising with the Left. I quite clearly perceive this law the same way that Anniken Huitfeldt expressed. She calls this a center-oriented private school law. I agree with that. This option may look as if the Left option has been set with the Right option on some constraints relative to the Clamet option. In a line-up, Ine Marie Eriksen Søreide rejected just that. We are surprised that today the Left is in the company they are in. There have been many debates over several years about how to facilitate a law that over time ensures the supplements that should be in the Norwegian society on the school front. In the Center Party, we've been engaged for a long time. We are some in what Dagrun Eriksen today says, that we are now back, at least largely, to Kjell Bondevik's foundation. We're back to the law that we ourselves, along with Jon Lilletun and Left, the forefects of the Bondevik I government. We are content with the Christian People's Party, but also with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, for the cooperation which has been founded here. We believe that this law will be good for many single lives and too many parents. We believe it is a law that will be good for Norwegian society, and that will provide long-term guidance, security, good education and training.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e400	This was almost a boundless satisfaction from the Center Party with what has become the setting. That's good for the Center Party. I also thought it was still important for the Central Party to pursue a good district policy. To do that, it's important, as I've understood at the Center Party before, to maintain the settlement where people live, all over the country. I have always been convinced that there is a connection between the service offered in a district and the attractiveness of living there. Environmental quality depends to a large extent on the local service provision. The school is a very important local actor. It plays an important role as a focal point and is important for the community not only as a school but also in many other contexts. Is the Central Party really satisfied that they are now depriving parents and others of the possibility to set up in order to maintain their secondary school in their own local environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e409	That's quite clear. For the Central Party, it is important that a good public base is a basic service. The representative Anundsen may not have avoided registering our commitment to securing a local economy that makes it possible, so that we can avoid all the cuts and all the decommissionings of alley balls that occurred in the previous metropolitan period. We're very pleased that the bullets that are now created in such a difficult time can continue. At the same time, it's up to us that we don't want 'outsourcing' the foundations of a small community. On the contrary, we want to give municipalities an economy that allows local people to take on the priorities with parents and secure a good local community school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e414	If someone's been in bad company here, according to the Center Party's Per Olaf Lundtigen, it's just the Center Party's sea. In the class struggle on 29 May Per Olaf Lundtigen says: ‘I disagree that a takeaway has now had the ability to create parent-driven schools without going on about a religious or pedagogical alternative’. He goes on to say: ‘It would be totally unnatural for parents in such situations to be forced to go about a pedagogical or religious alternative in order to maintain the primary school.’ I couldn't say the better sail, and I also thought this was one of the core values of the Center Party. My question is two-part. First, the question is, how can the Central Party fail the branch school in the way they now do, so that parents who want to maintain a school offer in the districts actually have to go on about a religious or pedagogical alternative in order to give their children their education? Secondly, how can the Centre Party contribute to setting a minimum limit of 15 students for primary schools, a limit to which the Centre Party before seawater has been very critical?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e433	First of all, it's right that we haven't had a complete breakthrough for all of the points. We would have liked to see that there were also no minimum limits for schools according to this law, but unlike Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, the Center Party has a very strong commitment to securing these cross-country clubs with a better community economy. Per Olaf Lundtigen has a special commitment to the cross-balls. For our big group, the most important thing in this round is to secure other aspects of the law. We don't want to see a lot of parents rung around the neighborhood. We want a good public school, a good community school. I was the leader of the municipal committee in the previous period, so I saw all the messages that came in then with Right's municipal economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e440	Anyone who has met the representative Lundtegen over the years knows that he is able to express himself incredibly clearly. The way he's quoted in the class struggle is not just an expression of a general commitment to primary schools. No, it's a very specific commitment because the Center Party has been involved in a law that makes you unable to get a primary school unless you either a) have a religious basis, or b) a particularly pedagogically recognized basis. I can answer the representative Meltveit Kleppa: The watershed for the Left was in that it was a right for people locally to start a local school, a community school, a community school, on a different basis than necessarily only religious and recognized pedagogical, and for example. create a school that could be of excellence by setting up a professional course of study in higher education, which we do not have today. What you're doing now is you're cutting it off. But what's the biggest mystery for me, since the representative Meltveit Kleppa had a visit to the Left, is how the Center Party swallows the camel with the branch schools with such pleasure, as it can almost work in this hall, for camel closures tend to most often appear on politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e449	I would like to remind you that, in comparison with the government of which Odd Einar Dørum was part, the Central Party in government, together with its government partners, has provided over three years 26 billion more dollars for the municipalities. No one can doubt that it means that parents locally will have far greater opportunities to engage in a good public school in their own community. Nor can anyone doubt that there will be completely different conditions for local populace to prioritize more of these schools. At the same time, this promise ensures that the schools created for a very difficult time in this field will continue with the state support they need. I thought that overall was a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e454	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e457	As the Left expresses in the vote, I should also underline from this pulpit today: the Left believes and places in a strong public school. We have the will to give it economic priority in such a way that it becomes so good that in open competition it will be the natural first choice for the vast majority of students. I believe that at this point the dividing lines are not as drawn by some of the government parties in today's debate. Here, the dividing lines between the individual parties go by the concrete willingness to ensure that the public school receives just this quality. It is true that if you choose to spend $1 billion for a free mid-hour at the SFO, or you choose to spend an equivalent amount to build a full-day school, you don't have the $2 billion to give Norwegian teachers the year of competence they need to ensure that you get the quality that everyone who works practically at school agrees that you should have, and that in our neighbouring country Sweden is now making public policy. You see, when you bet on those who are the carriers in this system, of respect for the students, you have to give priority to these heads. At these points, I think we're going to see real dividing lines in the time coming, because I believe the government parties – this is not about the Christian People's Party – are going to prioritize those crowns completely differently. Then you have to ask the question: do you make the public school as competitive as it should be, so that it not only becomes something you live with because you're used to it, but you live with it because you're proud of it, and because you're going to continue to be proud of it in our time and forward? In this, in my opinion, there is a clear political choice. It's like the heads in the budgets that you can use them once for one purpose, you can't use them for a very many purposes at the same time, even though it sounded like this earlier today. The left is completely crystal clear: we want to spend this money to strengthen the public school. We want the money contained in the Knowledge promise to continue to strengthen the public school, and therefore the funds are not available for projects such as a free mid-hour on the SFO or to build a full-day school. These are the things that have to be done first. It's the things that are absolutely crucial for the public school to be as good as almost all speakers to now have said to do it. Because in Norwegian politics, one of the most important, but most dangerous, moments when everyone says that they will do something of the same – then it's the real priority and the real crowns that are there. One can only look at the timing of the revised national budget, so one sees the willingness to give a different priority to public schools within a responsible financial framework. And so is the fact that the left -- like everyone here -- is for us to have schools that are private, and that carry out a social mission. It's those who go under the soulless title 6 A, but who have existed in our country for a very long time, and which it's very important to take care of. The left also sees primary schools as part of the diversity of school provision and as a supplement, and we have never shared the aggressive rhetoric of the government council of Djupedal or the government parties – in my opinion and in our opinion – about the situation in this area. But let me go on, give the following recognition to the Christian People's Party: I believe that the Christian People's Party in real negotiations has made the law that was presented better on some important points. I mean, it's for adults who don't have a right, even though it doesn't apply to all adults who don't have a right. But what is described in the setting is a real improvement. I believe that getting accepted for buying some training services that are usually reasonable to use to strengthen the school's purpose is an improvement. I think getting a test shelter is an improvement, and I think giving a better predictability for 6 A schools is an improvement. Then I also believe that that is not enough, for the following reason: First, I am absolutely convinced that a school that is also going to exist as a high school must be based on right and not on discretion. I am convinced that it would be right to repeal the freezing law. I am convinced that it would be right to secure the 6 A schools even more obligating than what can now become the situation after a job in the coming years. But I admit that the Christian People's Party has also at this point achieved something for which they should have recognition. When I took the floor earlier today with concern for a majority comment, I am still repeating from this pulpit that representatives Dagrun Eriksen and Lena Jensen did not express themselves like what was allegedly agreed on. I just have to take note of that. I have no desire to rape the headquarters of the representative Dagrun Eriksen on this point, but only wish her happiness in the further struggle in a challenging terrain. As far as today's legislation is concerned, the Left is based on building on the 2003 law, which is based on justice. We believe that this law, for example. ensures cross-border schools in the situations in which they exist. If the situation is like that of the representative Meltveit Kleppa, that there is such a good economy in all municipalities now that it is easy to keep the branch schools, what is the threat of getting them under a law of free school? Hardly big after that description, hardly any threat at all. And to take a debate that has been one of my favorite themes for a long time: what is the problem if you had managed to lift the system clamp that consists of putting down a school, and maybe then transfer about the same amount of cloud expenditure at a different level of government in this country? There's a lot of grip that you can do here, and I don't understand why when the primary schools were it that a French king once said: Paris is probably a mess. I get to say it that way that losing these branch schools was probably a fair worth to the Center Party in the overall picture of the project that I respect that they have, that is, the major government project, the red-green coalition. But when you sacrifice something, it's perfectly fair that you get to say it, because then it's clearly on the table. With regard to the law that we have, the Left has made it clear that we want to build on it, and we want to clarify – as the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide said earlier – points where there is reason to do so, on the basis of the law we had, and also on the basis of the social debate we have had. We note that the current government has passed on the prohibition that exists against taking dividends. We have simply written into the legal text what is otherwise in the law's preprocessor, namely that you have to have transactions that are verifiable and proper. You have to be able to include in the law that you can make a regulation to make sure you define what is outsourcing or not, in order to avoid just being outsourcing. It must be fully possible to ensure that there are no purposes other than those of the school, and it must be possible to ensure that the additional services are precisely to promote the quality of the training services. It's making a clear rule of law clear, precisely for the sake of the political debate that we've had around us, and that we're only allowed to take over has had the intensity that it's had. And when there is political rhetoric with great intensity, we have to deal with it. Then we have to communicate the same cash back. I believe that what has been said about the acceptance of thousands of seats would not have happened, but it is a free claim that others may have. In order to clarify what was in our opinion a purpose, we also make what is described as the provision that governs the existing law at that point. The right and left state directly in the case comment that it has never been the intention behind the law that there should exist an unreserved right to flood a municipality with school places, i.e. that the number of post-secondary places is equal to or exceeds the number of public school places. We say that this could be an example of a possible ‘significant weakening’ in the short or long term of public school provision. We're very clear on this. I must also say that I have been deeply surprised that the attack on the 2003 Law of Free School is being made with a line of argument as if we were living in Sweden. No, we don't live in Sweden. And the law that came in 2003 is not similar to the Swedish law, which did not come under a bourgeois regime, but under a social democratic regime. It is ultraliberal in relation to the law promoted in 2003. No, we don't live in Denmark. We do not live in Grundtvig's tradition, which almost made it a norm to have a free school, and I understand that Bertil Haarder feels a need to correct that course. And no, we don't live in the United Kingdom, with the classy school system that you have there. Thus, examples from other countries need to be used rather than to relate to the situation in Norway. And no, it's not like those colleges that were supposed to be there were going to run selection. They were to include a normality of the population, precisely because you have to include what is the social justice and the mixture that we're used to in Norwegian school policy. You should stick to these arguments when you attack it, because then you'll also see where the dividing lines are, what's the difference between the different draft laws. Finally, I would also like to stress that I sincerely hope that it will be clarified what will happen to the 6 A schools. It would be quite strange if schools that have existed for over a hundred years, and that carry on a social mission, were not to be safe. I hope that all the strange constructions that they would either get into the law of higher education or under some adult education law are confusing along the way, so that we get a proper, good and clear social anchoring. I warmly congratulate the representative, Dagrun Eriksen, on this journey. She'll get excellent calls from the Left in all her work at this point, because it's a cross of thought if you couldn't do it. I agree with those who have said that this was extremely unclear in the bill that came from the Government. On behalf of the Right and the Left, I refer to the legislative proposal referred to in the vote as proposal No. 2, which is a comprehensive legislative proposal based on the 2003 Act, with the additions that both the representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide and I have made in our respective articles. This is taken up by this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e489	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the proposal that he himself has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e494	It's a couple of relationships that are a little fuzzy for me. One is this tightening up so that the law does not lead to a significant deterioration in public school provision. Question 1: Were there too many schools approved under the previous law at high school? Question 2: If this tightening from the Right and the Left had jointly been part of the previous law on high school, would we have had 15 000 new student seats? And does the representative Dørum agree with Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide that this is not really a difference from the previous law on free school, or is this a change?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e504	I will reply to the representative, Huitfeldt, here: that's what the vote says. It is clearly stated that it is a clarification of what has been an declared intention. Clearly, no one intended to flood a municipality with a large number of applications. That someone thought they had an opportunity to do that, gets to be their right. The Left and Right take note that this has become a brutally effective argument of the red-green parties in the public debate. Then it is our duty, when we believe that this argument is not something that we believe is right, to happen or should happen, that we must promote the clarifications that have also been promoted in the proposal here. I have made that quite clear. I read from it instead. It has never been the intention or intention to flood a municipality with student places – of course it is not. But at the same time, we're saying that a department that's going to deal with this interception has to do it in a clear and verifiable way, so that we combine it with the legal provision we have. We feel, to put it straight, that we've been out in a debate where we've been exposed to intense caricature. If I'm going to take self-criticism on something, it's because we might have been too defensive to meet that caricature and what we've been up to. But what we stand for in this setting today is clearly presented. I recognize it, and it does both parties, both the way the representative Eriksen Soreide has done it, and as I do right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e511	This is a politically interesting debate, because it is very clear political arbitration. The right and left go hand in hand, but are in one way the same side as the Progress Party, which in this debate has marked a reindeer in my opinion reindeer liberalistic stand in education policy, for example. in the case of dividends and school fees. So it's not to avoid that once the Left has somehow chosen the page, they're also in partnership with the Progress Party about this. It's a little strange, I think, that the Left does not join the Christian People's Party in this matter. Therefore, my question to the representative Dørum is: why has the Left chosen to give priority to using its energy in this matter of working to draw Right to itself when it comes to tightening up the 2003 Act, instead of following the Christian People's Party in negotiations with the Government Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e518	The point of intersection is – briefly and brutally explained in this Chamber – in that our group said that it must be right to set up a branch school, it must be right to get to an excellent secondary school for professional reasons, without having to be religious or based on recognised pedagogy. That's the dividing line, and at that point there was a breach in the negotiations to which we were invited. We recognize that. So the Christian People's Party did the job they did – it's an honest thing. But the Left did not want to deviate from the right to discretion. The left does not want to be put to positions like we're in order for dividends to be taken. We're not. We haven't been before, and we're not now either. We are also not a liberalist party, for information, just as little as I expect the representative Elvik to be a member of a Communist party. There is a difference between left-wing socialism and communism, and there is a difference between being liberal or liberal. We stand for what I have presented here today: a strong public school and the willingness to prioritize it. We take a positive view of the open position the Progress Party has shown by saying that they vote subsidiaryly for what they stand for. But they've clearly made it clear that they basically want something completely different. – So if you first want to describe it this way, there are three different positions here in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e529	Let me first thank you for the honor and recognition of the actual changes we have made. I also appreciate the representative of Dørum's Heijing in the further process. After the law was passed, we experienced from the Christian People's Party that there were very many applications for the start-up of high school in general education. In the light of the postwar clock, we can well say that this was something we would not foresee in such large quantities, and it created a significant disturbance. Let me give you some of the honor to the Left for the job they have actually done in connection with the position we are dealing with today, where a lot of work has been done – and I feel that it is for the sake of the schools – to meet the criticism that came about the flooding of a municipality with student places and the threat to the public school. I think this was something we also should have done had we still been in government together, for the sake of the schools. Does the representative of Mr Dørum agree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e538	I want to start by saying that I don't want to in any way reduce the realities of the cooperation that has been mutual between the Left and the Right. I know very well the work of the Law of Free School in Bondevik II. I know that someone was looking with the hope that something would change in a few years. I do not know that any of my collaborators in that context thought it would be like this. I felt like I was on an honest deal. I need to say it like this. I stick to people saying what they're saying, until the opposite is proven. But that someone thought or wanted to bet on it all of a sudden as in Sweden, I don't know. In order to clarify that this should not be the case in Sweden, either in terms of dividends or by other means, clarifications have been promoted in an open and direct and fair cooperation between the Right and the Left. I am convinced that it was the spirit that was behind it all the time I worked on this. I have also heard former State Council Clemet say again and again what I said in the Chair: We do not live in Sweden, we do not live in Denmark, and we do not live in the United Kingdom. Then we have to give each other the mutual respect that we are trying to find solutions in Norway and not in any other country, but we are doing it on our own premises in Norway and in no other country at the premises of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e547	The time for the line change is running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e550	Let me first give tribute to the representative Dørum for the way he now reproduced, because in that there is a significant recognition that the old law was not a law that served Norwegian school. It was not thought that schools would be flooded in Norwegian municipalities, and therefore it was necessary, as the representative Dørum explains, with a clarification in today's position. It is this clarification that we should have had in the 2003 Act, because we were flooded by schools, which necessitated the tightening up that exists here. When we took over the government, we had a situation where it had been decided to set up 22,500 schools. More than 5,000 schools were approved by the then State Council, Clement, at the request of the Directorate, while we negotiated a new government platform at Soria Moria. This was done for purely ideological reasons, and against professional advice from the Directorate of Education, which is the department's department. We were faced with a situation of totally uncontrolled growth that we had to find a solution, simply to maintain the school structure in Norway. As a result, we presented a freezing law – a freezing law that we intended to have the shortest possible working time – and I am therefore very pleased that we are today adopting a new comprehensive and permanent law to replace the freezing law that provides a good and safe and permanent framework around the private schools in Norway. I am very pleased that the government parties and the Christian People's Party have reached an agreement on this important issue. Let me pay tribute to the representatives of the government parties in the committee, and also to the case-rapporteur, the Christian People's Party Dagrun Eriksen, for genuine, real, hard, but also trusting negotiations, which now gives us a law that is permanent, a law that makes the private schools not to be uncertain about the future, and a law that will serve that society private schools is part of. Education was at the heart of the 2005 election campaign, and no single issue showed clearer political lines between the various parties. If you look at the long lines of Norwegian politics, which you sometimes have to do, you'll see that the common school has a broad connection from most parties, and that's what our parties that later formed government focus on. Other parties also put emphasis on the common school in the election campaign, and in many ways it became an ideological question to which our parties also agreed. That means that when we made changes to the private school law, it was with the voters' vote in their backs; the voters had very clearly said that they wanted to change the old law, and that's what our government has done. I am glad that this has probably also contributed to the Christian People's Party entering into such constructive talks and subsequent negotiations. They saw that the evolution under the law of Clement had been unfortunate, but not least that the voters in elections had also expressed their desire for a change. The consultation in the context of proposals for amendments to the Law also showed broad support for the views of the government parties. In particular, I am pleased that the majority of county councils and not least teachers' organisations, students and other important actors in the school supported the government's view. The objective of the bill is to stop growth and bring about a permanent law, which is being debated here today in Odelstinget. The government's proposal for changes to the private school law is comprehensive and balanced and is based on the main principles of the old private school law that applied until 1 October 2003. In addition to the fact that the bill fulfills the promises in our government statement and what we said to the voters, the government has carried out a review of the law. Therefore, legislative changes are also proposed which will contribute to improving the effectiveness of supervision and, in particular, to increasing user-friendliness. The proposal for a new private school law implies a narrowing of the prevalence of new private schools entitled to state subsidies which do not operate on a religious basis or in a recognised educational direction. At the same time, we have also taken into account existing schools and students in these schools. Let me mention some of the main features of the bill that are also underlined by several previous speakers. Requirements for the basis on which a school is to be established are again introduced: religious, recognised pedagogical direction, international, upper secondary education, Norwegian primary education abroad or special schools for disabled persons. It shall no longer be a law authorisation right, but schools may be approved after an overall assessment. The assessment shall include, inter alia: be relevant to the consideration of the public school structure and are to be heard today by the host municipality and the host Member State. However, the municipality and county council do not have a veto right. In this context, I would also like to point out that the purpose of the law is to help establish and operate private schools in Norway, so that parents and students can choose schools other than public schools. Let me also underline what the representative Dagrun Eriksen said in his statement, namely that in the interpretation of the law we have, we will base on the agreement we have made with the Christian People's Party. Some replicators have probably suggested to the Christian People's Party that this is quite up to the discretion of the Council of State. That's not the law to understand. The law is very clear, and the premises in the comments of the majority parties are clear, and that of course the Council of State will loyally follow up. The schools operating under the law of the day will be allowed to continue even if they do not meet the requirements of the new law. The government parties have shown that it would be unreasonable for the students at the established schools if the schools had to be closed, and therefore we have not changed this. The funding system has also continued, with the security it means for private schools, and I record that there is also satisfaction from the private schools with this. The name of the law goes back to the original name of this law for all years, until the previous law, namely the law on private schools entitled to State aid. In the bill there is also a clean-up of the various schools for which we have a law. I record that many in the debate have developed the 6A schools, as if the government parties have opposed the 6A schools. But it has been expressed a very clear wish from Stortinget on different occasions that we should have a clean-up in the law – that private schools were given a separate law, that the subject schools were given a separate law, and that we should now try to adapt them to the law. To the extent that you can’t do it – and there are many schools today that have support, which will not do it – we have said that during this ageing period we will come back with a law anchoring of those schools, and that they do not have to feel any sense of insecurity. A clean-up in the law is a force for a law, and it is also a strength for the schools that come under such a separate law. That is why – and I believe that the 6A schools also understand – a clearing of the law is a strength for private schools and other schools, and that is what our government has addressed, but with a background in the wishes of the Stortinget. At the time of the adoption of the then law on free schooling in 2003, the aim was to increase the diversity of public and independent schools. This would allegedly help to improve the quality of both self-employed and public schools. In contrast to the previous government — and this has also been stated by some here — there is no professional evidence to suggest that several private schools contribute to improving the quality of public schools. Nor is there any research that substantiates the type of claims. On the other hand, there is a lot of research that shows the opposite, including from Norwegian contexts. I record as a certain curiosity that reference is made to the NIFU STEP report on independent schools, as it is called, and that it is used as evidence that our government does not care about the results available. This report shows – if it shows anything at all – that what our government is doing is right. It's based on a student basis taken before Kristin Clement's law came into effect. On the other hand, the report states that a law limiting private schools to religious educational alternatives is unlikely to lead to strong social segregation. That means that if you're going to use this report for something, it's an argument for the law that the government is producing, not the opposite. It is also interesting to see that as late as Monday in Trondheim, an OECD report was launched, with ten countries having a comparative basis for looking at the impact on the school system of introducing free school choices, and thus private schools. The conclusion is quite clear: a segregated school system, which we get with private schools and thus a freer degree of school choice, contributes to weaker professional outcomes, while contributing to the segregation of the school system. It's interesting to see that, among other things. write – I read it in the Norwegian translation that countries with free school choices and many private schools have ‘lower average reading and math skills’ than those who do not. The OECD is probably an organisation that usually has a different political direction from our government, insofar as these are political recommendations, but it is interesting to see that the OECD also sees the danger of segregated school systems, and thus also warns against such developments. Let me conclude by saying that I hope that this law will serve the schools and the Norwegian community well. For the sake of both the Norwegian society, the schools and not least the Norwegian students, I hope that this law will prevail over elections and as such be a safe foundation for the private schools in Norway for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e616	The Council of State is very much talking about the single school. He talks about it in a way like it's just the government parties and also for the benefit of the Christian People's Party, who are followers of and strong supporters of the common school. The aim of the single school shall be to bring the daughter of the director and the son of the worker together, come from different social backgrounds and learn from each other through social exchange at school. They do that today, both in public schools and in private schools. I can refer to the Tuastad Statevites, to which I also referred in my post, which is also the party colleague of the Council of State. His conclusion is that private schools are also common schools. Nevertheless, the Council of State claims — once again rather heavy — that it is in this way that fresh soles contribute to increased social disparities. Then I would like to know what professional, concrete and Norwegian studies the Council of State is based on when he claims that in-health schools create social differences among people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e625	Let me first say that today's attitude clearly shows that the Progress Party is on a separate plane of education policy. This means that they have definitely left the primary school, and it is not difficult to understand why the school’s people do not take the Education Policy seriously either. The OECD report, which came as late as this week, and which is now being prepared by the OECD and to be presented in final version until the fall, says three things. I can quote in English, if I reach it in my measured speaking time: «There are at least three reasons for thinking that social separation between schools may be a problem.1. It can certainly be argued that a sense of common culture and citizenship is most easily developed if children from different backgrounds are educated together.2. Systems with a high level of school separation have worst results everywhere in maths and reading.» The final point is that if you have separated schools, you also get lower learning skills. This is the OECD's recommendation as late as this week in the Equity in Education report, built in ten countries and a very comprehensive country analysis. I think this is an impartial and unpolitical analysis of how to deal with a segregated school system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e643	First, I have to arrest the Council of State for a manifest error. In the NIFU STEP report that I quoted, the foreword says: ‘The report is part of a cooperation project with the Centre for Economic Research at NTNU on behalf of the Directorate of Education. [[SIGHS]] The aim has been to analyse the impact of the 2003 Act on Freestanding Schools.’ Thus, it should be quite emphatically stated that the report states that no segregated effects of the 2003 Act can be identified. Then I want to go back to the OECD report, which has been a topic up to several times in this debate. That report is not talking about the high school system we have in Norway. But it says: ‘School choice may pose risks to equity since well-educated parents may make herwder choices’. The only thing it says, and the only thing we can draw out of it, is that in a school system with low levels of fresh schools and almost no freedom of choice between public schools, we have huge inequalities, professional and social, between students in public schools. How can the Council of State explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e661	First, let me say that the NIFU STEP report is based on the student base from 2004–2005. This means that there was no basis at that time for saying that the changes that occurred in 2003 were implemented in Norwegian schools. This means that the growth in the number of pupils in private schools did not happen in the first year, but in the years after. The student base in the NIFU STEP report does not provide the basis for drawing the conclusion that I understand that the representative Eriksen Soreide has made in previous posts, rather the opposite. The OECD report is based on a country-by-country analysis of ten different countries and points out clearly that social segregation in schools is very unfortunate, both in the case of free choice of schools and not least private schools contributing to free choice of schools. They're warning it very clearly. The most interesting thing is not only that the warnings against what this can mean in society are strong, but it is warned that the quality of the school in reading and math – that is, in reading and mathematics – goes down. The OECD is generally a body to which the Right listens loyally, and I am surprised why the Right does not also listen loyally to this report.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e670	Let me first give tribute to the Council of State for the clarification of the basis of approval – insofar as there were doubts about it from other replicants here in the hall. But I also have a little specific question to the Council of State. Some schools were stopped by the so-called freezing law — schools which, on the basis of the validation basis adopted today by Odelstinget, could have had the opportunity to be approved. These are schools that are ready to start, which are very impatient in terms of time perspective, and want to start as soon as possible. So my question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State take an initiative, so that this type of school could be given the opportunity to start advice as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e679	It is quite correct that there were some schools that were affected by the freezing law, which would have started under normal conditions. I will now, in a short time, when Odelstinget and later Lamentations make their decisions, send a letter of assignment to the Education Directorate and see if it will be possible that the schools that were stopped or affected by the freezing law could get a faster procedure and thus start to fall. I do not know if that is practicable, but I would assume that the application procedure in the Education Directorate will make this possible. Not many schools were directly affected by the freezing law, which were not commercial but either religious or pedagogical alternatives. But when the Stortinget has made its decisions, I will send a letter to the directorate, and I hope that the directorate will then be able to meet the wishes of these schools to start already in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e684	Governments opened up quite freshly by taking me to income for their own interpretation of themselves. He should not do that, but he would like to listen to what I say. I say what I say, that when someone hoped that from the Bondevik II government they would get a law that was supposedly similar to something else – for example. the one in Sweden, which came under a social democratic regime – that was a wrong assumption. I'm trying to assess the landscape I was in when I was working on it. No one was going to try to make money or bypass this. It was not that because if you had a large production capacity to send applications, it would turn it on. So I stand firm that what the Right and Left stand together for in this setting is not change or revision, but it's a clarification, and the clarification has been forced by the societal debate that we've had – a debate that's good, because it leads to it. I want to ask the Council of State: why is understanding so incredibly much better than right, when you're going to both look at this from international conventions and promote important purposes for parents right in a society like ours?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e691	The answer to that is in Dørum's self-recognition, namely that he did not want the municipalities to be flooded by schools, and that he today wants to tighten up the law that Kristin Klemet passed, because he did not think it would be as bad as it was. But it got as bad as it got, just because you have a right. That means that you don't have the discretion to limit the growth in the number of private schools. When we got in, we were in an uncontrolled growth period, especially at high school. If we hadn't taken over, 150 pst would have. growth in the number of school places ready for approval has been approved. It had changed the Norwegian school structure altogether, it had destroyed the public school at high school. Therefore, a law of judgement and not a law of rights are necessary. In any time before the law of Kristin Clemets, this law was a law of discretion, but of course with a very clear direction. That's why this law has to go back to its original form. It will be a law that serves the private schools well – the alternatives available to public schools, which are set out in the law. I am very pleased that Private School Norway is very pleased with the law that is being passed today. What I'm probably dissatisfied with is that the left is not behind the law, which the left should have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e702	I noticed that the Council of State stated that what is on the SV's websites about the discretionary exercise of the Council of State is actually wrong. But that's another thing. The councils have spoken in large letters about stopping the fresco and preventing the commercial schools. Does not the Council of State not see that the powerful attacks of government parties have run against the colleges, and the uncertainty that is now being imposed by a law of discretion – not least pending a new law – can just lead to the emergence of completely private commercial elite schools where there is a hundred percent self-payment from the students?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e709	What we are now introducing is, of course, a security for this type of school – unlike a law that was constantly politically controversial and which was the main factor in an electoral campaign. We won the election not least because we wanted a tightening of the private school law. What we have now done in a broad agreement with the Christian People's Party, which is mentioned in various articles, including mine, now makes us have a broad majority behind a new law. The private school organisations in Norway support the law currently under discussion here in Odelstinget. It assures me that we are on the right course. This means that it will now be possible to create schools with alternative content. Commercial schools will no longer be able to establish themselves, and in this way we will be back to the long lines of Norwegian education policy, where the common school is the arena where our children will succeed, and where alternatives are given that have content — not commercial content, but alternative content to the curricula available in public. In this way, this is a very good law, but I have recorded both the vote and the debate that the Progress Party has been completely outside – not only in this debate, but not least in the defence of the common school. It's a choice the Progress Party has made. It's a choice I deeply disagree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e716	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e719	Today is a sad day for School-Norway. The strong agitation of the government parties before the 2005 elections and their attacks on the colleges at times approached the inconvenient. When we see today what, after the agreement with the Christian People's Party, is left of the argument that was used, it is incomprehensible to the undersigned that the government parties can still take such words in their mouths as that they have stopped the release and stopped the school pros. The old law, in line with the new law, prohibits the taking of dividends, so here's the state of the status quo. Who would think it if a player of old TV broadcasts from the election campaign? Another tragic fact about today's treatment is the end of schools. Who would have thought that the Senter party would be able to agree to something like this? The centre party is usually known as good horse dealers and dealers, but here they have clearly failed Building Norway. The policy put forward here will mean that the slogan to put the whole country into practice will lose its content. There can't be anyone at their full five who really thinks that we're now getting a flowering of montessori schools out in pig-grown strips. The tragic consequence of this amendment is likely to be a marked increase in the number of young children being pushed into school buses. In the past, we have discussed a proposal from the Progress Party on school kissing, which revealed the health consequences of school kissing, and not least the potential danger that children and young people face with today's school kissing legislation. I want to be careful to remind the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Knowledge that they have promised the Stortinget to look at the problem of school kissing. So far we haven't heard anything from them in this area, and with the bill that is being discussed here today, I expect them to act immediately. All parties want a good school. But what do we really add to that term? If you're assuming that school is going to be a place to learn and not just a place to be, then you have to focus on the learning outcomes that give you the answer as to whether school is good or not. It may have nothing to do with who owns the school building or who is responsible for the operation. For the Progress Party, it is important that there be a focus on the individual, that it develop its sense of responsibility, its sense of duty, its formation and its self-confidence on the basis of its assumptions. That's what can give us the answer as to whether we have a good school. There is a lot of good in Norwegian school, but the results are not in proportion to the resources allocated to the school each year. This can be seen through international studies. We lag behind in relation to land, it's natural to compare ourselves with, and countries we're going to compete with. One of the main reasons for this negative development is, in my view, the unilateral efforts of the socialist parties at the single school and the single school. Through widespread belief in uniformity and uniformity, Norwegian schools have been set up against a non-existent average student. For the Progress Party, the basic thing is that we are born different, and our ideology is that the individual human being should have the opportunity to maintain his individual peculiarity. It shall be possible to realize its personal dreams and to be enriched by the impulses of diversity around us, and not least it shall be possible to choose between different alternatives. Just the fact that every human being is unique makes us think that the equality process was and is and will be misplaced. Rather, the party of progress will have a social development where an emphasis is on human beings being treated as equivalent. Treating someone as equivalent actually means that they have to be treated differently according to their differences. The sociologists do not want such differentiation and such diversity. For them, it seems that there is even more of the medicine that hasn't worked, which is the solution. Luckily, getting one say, the ministry's vision has not come forward, because then it had become extra bad. Through the agreement with the Christian People's Party, the so-called 6A schools have got some extra time, but the school owners and we are going to wait in suspense for a new draft law from the Government, which is going to come in this great period. What kind of framework conditions is the majority actually offering these schools? Schools depend on being able to think in the long term, both in relation to students and employees. With the solution now available, it seems to me that the government parties and the Christian People's Party have hung a damocles sword over these schools. The Damocles had as known a sword which was fastened with a hairline, hanging over their heads. The hair could be worn or broken. The Progress Party wants us to have a new law that opens up non-discrimination for schools, regardless of ownership, in terms of the economy and the recognition of school offerings. I hope, of course, that we get there once, for the sake of students, diversity and the school owners. But I realize that it takes time to get through for reasonable thoughts. That is why I have a call for the government parties, as they will certainly vote against the proposal of the Progress Party: vote at least on the proposal from the Right and the Left, which will mainly bring us back to the old private school law. Because that's what they said during the campaign when they felt a little pressure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e742	It is with great pleasure that we are discussing today the Government's proposal for changes to the law on high school. It is particularly gratifying that we have secured a broad majority in the Grand Council for the new law, which is now called the Private School Act. This will create predictability for schools. A fundamental idea in the movement of workers is and has always been that education should be free of charge. Education for everyone and not for the few has always been our goal. We want a school where children and young people across different cultural and social backgrounds go into the same class, in the same school. This creates mutual understanding and tolerance for each other – where you come from, and who you are. Surveys from our neighbouring countries have shown that private school releases create greater differences. In Sweden, the level of education of parents reflects the choice of private schools. Of course, there are wealthy parents who send their children to private schools — private schools that even charge a student. Obviously, there are differences. We want everyone to have equal rights to education — offering the same type of education across economic and social differences. The main lines of the new law are based on the principles of the former private school law of 1985. We have been strongly opposed to the Law, which was introduced by the previous government in 2003, which we viewed as a commercialisation of schools, and which would and were about to undermine the common school and provide far more private schools – the law that opened up free flow and little control of what type of schools could be established. About 15,000 new private schools in high school would mean that the public school had been drained for resources, and we would clearly get more distinctions in school. Local politicians throughout Norway said no to several private schools, but they were overrun. Now our trusted ones have been heard. You count on a large district, for example. Only one city, such as the South Trøndelag, would the creation of many private schools in central districts pose a threat to the entire school structure, especially the school structure in the districts. For economic reasons, municipalities would have combined school provision in fewer schools. This would probably have happened in the key areas, and it would have been difficult to establish expensive vocational education and training. In many counties, high school is a central development actor. Secondary education is more than just an educational institution. It supports the public sector and business sector and provides many jobs, not only within its own walls, but also outside. It is open in the private school law for schools built on a vocational educational alternative to public schools, such as montessori and stone schools. These schools believe we are alternative schools, despite the fact that the Knowledge Promise opens up more opportunities in public school education. Christian schools and certified international schools should also continue to have the opportunity to be established. It is not allowed in Norway, either by the law of high school or private school, to make money in school. But the Progress Party wants it to be possible to benefit from state-funded private schools. Then school becomes our children's business. A situation where schools are created to make money, we do not want in the Workers' Party. We have seen a number of examples of schools around that run across the law, where the county has not intervened. The new law should provide for more effective supervision of schools. We see that as very positive. Public schools should be so good that private schools are not an alternative. There is no doubt that public schools face many and major challenges. It's about continuing training for teachers and drop-outs, to mention something, things that we debated in the United Kingdom earlier today, and where there's a political consensus that we have major challenges. It's going to be totally wrong for me to open up state-funded commercial schools that take financial resources from the public, when there are challenges that it's entirely possible to solve in the public common school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e765	I would first of all like to thank the representative Anundsen of the Progress Party for being very honest. In the reply after his posts earlier today, he made it very clear that the Progress Party wants to go in for dividends, and has no plans to say no to dividends. They also want 100 pst. state-funded schools, but that schools are free to take whatever they want from school money. It'll also be interesting when one listened to the main post of Anundsen, where he foreshadowed that we based our attitudes on ideology, while in the opposition there was more reason and quality that spoke. Leaving school to the market is also, to the highest degree, ideology, but it's an opposite ideology of what we stand for. I also notice that the High Representative believes that other countries have no relevance in comparing school systems. I think it's a little strange that the representative of the Progress Party uses Sweden as an example, and that the OECD considers it highly relevant to compare different country's school systems. To the left, I just want to say that when it comes to flooding, there's a lot of good examples of it. It's just to go in and look at the statistics where the big school chains would establish the harvest before the big shot. My home municipality, Arendal, had been flooded by John Bauer Squares – 500 high school places in the preparatory course, which corresponds to over half of the school places in the largest city in the county. That's the way it was in a lot of states. One can just imagine what the results of that would be. I also want to distribute a verbal flower to the Christian People's Party, which has made it possible to reach a broad settlement in this demanding area. We have together laid the foundation for a private school law that is robust and can last over time. For us in the Workers' Party, common school is an important pillar of our welfare model. When the right hand side, including the Progress Party, which claims to be for the most people, attacks our welfare model, including the common school, it's fine. In this way, we get clear lines of Norwegian policy. The right, the Progress Party and, in part, the Left have a different agenda, where privatisation and market solutions are the tune of very many basic welfare schemes. Such a policy will undoubtedly reinforce social and economic differences between people. That being said, we see it as important to be liberal towards educational and religious alternatives in the school sector. They represent a supplement to public school. These schools represent something other than, for example, the large foreign, commercial school chains and other commercial providers. The commercial actors made a vigorous effort to flood many cities with student preparation offers at high school under the former law on high school. And they got good help from former Minister of Education Clement. Fortunately, this release was stopped after the red-green government took over. The new private school law has a great deal of upsurge in School-Norway. Both the Education Association and the Student Organisation support the proposed mitigations. Of course, we are happy to have a policy that is in line with the views of the students and teachers. In this regard, I would like to quote from the last issue of the Educational Association’s magazine ‘Education’, where Professor Liv Sætre at Elverum High School says: ‘I do not at all believe in private schools without anchor in a special pedagogy. Free schools are purely commercial actors. Better make the public school even better." However, in order to get a good common school, it needs more than that. I am proud of the strong commitment of the red-green government to the local economy. It has enabled municipalities and county councils to invest more in the school. Most municipalities and county councils are paying more in school, but for some it has simply been about avoiding cuts and cuttings after many lean years of bourgeois starvation of municipalities and county municipalities. So now there are many who are happy that Røre's savings school combined with an overly liberal law of free school has been replaced by more money for the municipalities and a new private school law that does not weaken the common school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e793	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e796	I have registered during the debate, and with the last post, from the representative de Ruiter, that it is not possible to get any of the government parties to respond to which schools were approved, which also took advantage. Because it wasn't allowed, and it's not allowed. Norway had the world's most stringent schooling law when it came to the prohibition of taking dividends. If it was actually that it was possible to make dividends under the old law, why in all the world have not the government parties promoted a proposition that dramatically changes that law? It's simply because no one took dividends, and no one could take dividends. The way the government parties argue, it's like saying that if I ever wanted to think in the future that I wanted to drive too fast, I'm going to be punished for it today. I would be punished for it if I had driven too fast, but I haven't driven too fast. I think the arguments put forward around the students and the students' background are very special, because we also have research from the OECD that shows that in countries that have little hints of fresh schools, and no or little freedom of choice between public schools, there are enormous differences between students in each school. So it's not like all students go to the same school, as the government parties seem to think. But that argument and that research knowledge does not fit the reality of government parties, and therefore they do not want to decide on it, nor do they want to use it. I can't help saying anything about commercial schools either. I think it's a great paradox, and it should also be the government parties and the Christian People's Party, that the only schools that are now free to start, free to make profits, free to take as high a school money as they want, are the schools that are commercial, that are pure private schools, and that continue just as before. If it was a wish from the government parties to stop the commercial schools, it was those schools, with long and good traditions in Norway, that they should stop. They weren't supposed to stop those schools that had strict restrictions on parental pay, strict restrictions and total bans on dividends, which were not allowed to silt students. Those schools aren't commercial. I still have the good news to hear the government parties tell me which of the schools that were stopped, and that now don't get started, that are commercial, that take dividends, and that run in a way that I don't think so many in this room want. I think it's an interesting debate. It clarifies differences. But let it be clear: the comprehensive amendment tabled by the Right and Left and on which we stand is a clarification of the policy already existing in the old law. That's what we're proud to have done in cooperation, because we're on the same line, and we're protecting the right to parent and the right to choose differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e807	We don't need to tighten the law in this area because we don't want to open up to commercial players. It's true that with the old law, you couldn't make any profit. But as Terje Hansen, who is a professor at the School of Commerce, says: This law has been made by amateurs, they have overlooked that it is possible to obtain returns on investments in ways other than through dividends to owners. This was also the message from John Bauer's people, who see this as a long-term investment. So there's a lot of ways to make money without taking dividends. But the most serious thing is Eriksen Soreide's handling of the NIFU STEP report. It is true that it says: ‘The intention has been to analyse the effects of the 2003 law on independent schools.’ But what does the next sentence say? ‘This report was intended to be included in the first phase of this study.’ The school year was chosen because it was the last year of private school law. So we were going to do the next survey, which was to analyse the consequences of the new law on high school. Thus, there was no basis for continuing this research – we were not given a law on high school. This report is a tribute to the old private school law, that it does not lead to great social differences, and it is this private school law that we now want to continue. It is unclear to me what restrictions the Left does in this law. A left-wing representative, Jarle Brout, announces that ‘Left will take the initiative to review the law on early school education, as it now turns out that private actors such as The John Bauer chain is looking for profit». If this tightening that left has now got on the right had been adopted, would we have had the same number of private school places in the previous period? It's unclear to me whether it's really the old law of high school that now applies to the Left, or whether they've now got to the Right on some kind of rotation. I have also recorded that a few years ago Sweden was a sunny example of how great it could be with fresh oils. Now the Swedish example is no longer used, and the Swedish Schoolpiece now also says that this has challenged the quality and depth of the Swedish school. The Dutch studies also show that for students in mathematics, when they are 15 years old, it has a greater impact on their performance of what kind of education their parents have than that, for example. has been established in Norway. I want to refer to what the OECD says in its Equity report: ‘The heart of the Norwegian education system is the unit school [[...]] This is also the starting point for the new and good private school law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e830	For the Central Party, the primary school that is for all the children in the school circle is a pillar of the community building. The unit school is very strong in the Center Party. It contributes to embarrassing relationships regardless of social or religious backgrounds, and to me, for example, the Christian Church or Smithians, as they are called, an example, because they use the public school. I am very pleased that the government rejected the Bondevik II government's high school experiment with a strong focus on the school AS. In the debate, there have been some comments on the issue of community schools, i.e. schools at the nursery level in community communities on the outskirts with a strong social community, egalitarian relations and, in general, strongly positive local patriotism. You're not from Ne's municipality, but from Ruckedal – identity and belonging in gay relationships. The primary school is a pillar of the community where everyone meets and contributes to the power center of local life, and the vast majority of cross-border schools are municipal. A few of them are parents. It is the municipal economy that is most important for the school structure. It is now much easier to argue against school centralisation than before, because a power collection has been carried out in the municipal sector and in the municipal economy. Nevertheless: The Ring-rich presidency in Buskerud will decide on Monday for the closure of four branch schools. There is a local lacmus test on election vows, and there will always be some who argue for centralisation — professional or economic arguments, from school leaders or economists. In recent years, several parent-run cross-border schools have been established, and it is important that these can be passed on as full school options, i.e. legislation that does not in any way discriminate against the municipal primary school. Otherwise, I would regret the removal of the access to the establishment of new parent-run cross-border schools. We should have had that safety valve – and I stress the safety valve. Thus, the local government would become more cautious with centralisation, because the assumption for the new central school is often better capacity utilisation by several students from the outreach area. For new parent-run primary schools, Montessori-pedagogics are now being accepted. There will be too many of them at most. Montessori pedagogy provides good school results for the youth, good school in becoming useful people. I am pleased that this pedagogics in practice today are also widely used in the municipal school. It's good and forward-looking. Otherwise, I will finally say that I am very pleased with the praises of the many people here today, in whatever political colour, of the branch school. This promises well with regard to the forthcoming budgetary discussions around the municipalities. I expect that there is agreement between what is said in Stortinget, and what is said locally in terms of the future of primary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e849	It was one of the figures of the government parties that now had the word. It was a moment a little unclear to me if he actually regretted some of the government's submissions, but we get to come back to that. It's a historic day in many ways when the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party are entering into a settlement in this matter of the private school law, because the debate on fresh schools is one of the ideological classics in this room. The theme has always created strong fronts with traditional dividing lines, with the so-called bourgeois parties on one side and socialists on the other. As head of the Education Committee in Oslo, there are not a few debates that I have taken part in when the municipality was going to give its recommendation on the establishment of health schools, and how precisely this dividing line has been very significant. In particular, I have had the pleasure of debating this many times with SV representatives, but there has been a slightly different debate than the one we have had today, and I am glad, because between these fronts it is actually the colleges that have had to stand. They have had to live with uncertainty in front of different government budgets and in front of different economies of scale. Do we want to cut? Will the law be amended, or should we have a predictable framework? Free schools deserve better. They deserve predictability. They deserve to be able to deal with laws that last beyond a four-year period, and they deserve to have financial predictability. They actually deserve to be treated as they are: approved schools. Government parties now have a unique opportunity to contribute to the predictability of this school. If they put old rhetoric aside – which I have a feeling they actually do – and look forward to, and follow the agreement that has been concluded, Friskole-Norway will have a whole new predictability. I am also pleased with the State Council's insurance earlier today on the qualification basis for the boarding schools. In one of the many letters we received from the high school owners after this agreement came about, it says: ‘We hope that the good cooperation that has now taken place will be continued to the best of students and parents.’ We hope so, too, on the part of the Christian People's Party. We could choose to stretch our hands in the weather and say that no, we don't want any conciliation, and then raise the tab rank and free. But we have chosen to seek influence to get the best possible law. The law isn't perfect, but it'll do. It'll do. It'll do. It'll do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e867	To suggest that I don't mean what I'm saying from this pulpit, that you ‘may refuse an authorisation if the establishment of a high school would result in a significant reduction in the public school offer in the host municipality in the short or long term’; is the same as standing on the pulpit and saying that I do not believe in Huitfeldt's representative or in the council when they say that they are now focusing on knowledge in school. I have taken note that both the Council of State and the representative believe so. Blaming me and the Right here to stand for AS School would be about as primitive as choosing such a debate technique to the representative Huitfeldt and councillor Djupedal. I'm not doing that. On the other hand, I say clearly that from now on, the fight for the public high school will be about the choice of using the crowns at that school or using them on a variety of sympathetic welfare offers. Then I would dare to say that if you don't use those heads at school now, you're undermining the primary school. Thus, earlier today, a proposal to ensure recruitment to a common school was voted on. So someone's asking, is there AS relative to an AS? It could also be an AS according to the law that the majority of people now adopt. But the point of the AS metaphor, used by people, is that you can make money on it, you can cheat, you can hang around or what you have to do now. So it's like both in the law that's here now, and in other laws, there are statutes and regulations that make it possible to enter it. To make it clear that you are not going to have this, there is also an overall proposal from the Left and the Right, where we agree to intervene so that no one can bypass anything. It is clear that we would like to invite the Government to steal from our proposals if you later discovered that someone was tricked or tossed, or where we had thought in a way that you hadn't thought about today. Because we're saying what we're saying, we're saying, no one's going to profit from this. It's possible that someone hoped for it. But it wasn't their law, either in 2003 or now. I'm asking to be believed, when we have a joint proposal with the text that says here. If we can't have that as a starting point, we're going to have a rather brutal political debate. I have no problem taking on that debate. I have both the talent and the ability to go into it, but it's not going to be very constructive. So suggesting that the Right and Left don't mean what they're saying is the same thing as saying that Huitfeldt's representative doesn't mean what she's saying, when she thinks that the Workers' Party is now focusing on knowledge. I believe her. But I think the fight in the future is actually about where the crowns are going to be used. I'd like to draw up that front line on purpose. And I'm doing it with great pleasure and care, because we obviously have a government where the nursery campaign leads to the school, higher education and research losing. That the representative Lundtigen wants a safety valve, he has my deepest sympathy for it. I had it as a test case in relation to the government parties. They did not pass the test, but we can continue that debate another time. I am pleased with the support of the Landslag for the near-environment ball – LUFS – for the proposal on which the Left and Right are united here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e889	Today I have the feeling that we have experienced that the Council of State has lived after a ‘will you not answer, so answer to something else’ philosophy. So I want to address some specific questions that I hope the Council of State can record down and answer directly from the pulpit today. A: What concrete Norwegian professional studies show that in Norway, fresh oils increase social differences? B: Does not the Council of State fear a blooming of private national schools based only on self-payment, when the opening of fresh schools closes tonight? C: A question from the Left: What's better with discretion than right? D: When the Council of State talks about the common school, does he mean only schools owned by municipalities and county councils? E: A question from the Right: Which schools were approved under the old law, took dividends? It will be appreciated whether the Council of State can be concrete. Then it is right that the Progress Party will improve public schools, because we believe that competition between schools will have the same effect as competition in other areas, namely that quality is improving. I think the representative Anna Ljunggren had a rather interesting reasoning in that regard, because she said that the public school should be so good that private schools are not an alternative. But she is clearly so uncertain whether the public school can be so good that she will not allow the private to be established. That's a strange starting point, because if she had been sure that the public school was so good that private alternatives wouldn't be a problem, it might be impossible to ban the private alternatives. So thanks to the representative de Ruits me for honesty from the pulpit here instead. I tend to be honest, so there's hardly any basis for any great gratitude compared to that. But if we are to first thank each other for being honest, I really want to send the thanks to the Central Party Per Olaf Lundtägen, who regrets that the Government and the Christian People's Party are now closing the door to the possibility of private branch schools, as opposed to the parliamentary leader of the Central Party, who was here quite clearly in a line exchange earlier today that it was not the centre party's priority. In the case of the constantly pointing out profits etc. by the representative de Ruiter, the more lucrative starting point of the Advance Party is that it should be allowed to make money in Norway. What is involved in this case is a concrete ban on making money to provide certain services. Experience from Sweden shows that there will be no dividend parties in the school area, so we believe that the dividend debate is a skin debate that is really not particularly interesting. And the market that they Ruiter in every single post from this pulpit says he's so vividly afraid, it's you and me.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e912	The new private school law adopted today stops the commercial schools. I think it's absolutely right to refer to school chains like John Bauer, Sonans and the Academy as commercial schools. Schools are commercial in the sense that they are not run by idealistic organizations, and that they do not have their origins in a wish from parents and students. The religious schools are an example of the opposite. Schools often have a starting point in a desire from the community and from their parents. The same applies to schools called alternative educational directions. The Council of State has given a good account of the report by NIFU STEP and that the NIFU STEP report to which the representative Eriksen Soreide has always referred does not speak against the private school law adopted in Odelstinget today, but rather speaks for it because the research that has been done in this area goes back to the former private school law before the release came. I want to go back a little bit to Sweden, which was also the subject of the previous speeches, where they have had an incredibly high growth in private schools, almost an explosion. It turned out that in the 2005–06 school year there was lower teacher density in private schools than in municipal schools. It also appeared that in 2005 and 2006, the proportion of teachers lacking the teacher’s degree was significantly higher in the independent schools, i.e. private schools. As I had in mind a little earlier: the school student, who is the trades union body in Sweden, says in a statement that often priority schools of variation and a wide range of services at the expense of quality. I'm glad that we have a government that pays attention to quality and the contents of school, and that we ensure that our children have a good school that they can go to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e923	The representative Anundsen challenges me on some questions about private schools. Let me say the following: Schools which do not have State aid carry on general business activities. The pursuit of general economic activities in Norway is permitted. At the moment of state aid being granted, it is legitimate for a society to make demands on how that State aid is to be applied. There is the difference between a normal commercial activity, as many schools are when they do not receive State aid. They are thus not subject to the same legal provision that Odelstinget is debating today. We have no desire to prevent general business. It is quite up to the individual and to the individual family if you want to buy a service from such a school. What we are discussing today is the schools that have State aid and are therefore under a regulatory framework that makes it absolutely legitimate for a society to make demands on them. So far I have not registered that someone in this debate has said that some schools have benefited. But it is clear that these are commercial players in relation to the old, idealistic schools that we know from old, both those that have religious content and those that have recognised pedagogical content. In this way, these new school chains are completely different by nature and therefore commercial also in their nature. When it comes to justice and discretion, I answered the question related to the representative of Dørum, but I perceive him there that he is somewhat in doubt about the following: A law of rights has given an uncontrolled growth that he did not want, and therefore it has been necessary to clarify the legal text of the day from the left. There is an openness from the representative that I appreciate, but that is why it is not possible to create a right law. That is why this law is a law of discretion — a law of discretion that is not based on arbitrary discretion but based on an agreed agreement that provides security for the schools mentioned in the law. In the case of social divisions, I record – and I should not be disrespectful – that a certain report is still being referred to which actually shows the opposite of the representatives not included in the agreement. I guess that means you haven't read the report, guaranteed, because this report relates to something quite different than you do later on. There is as far as I know, not extensive research in Norway in commercial schools all the time we've had, but what we can't do is international research. International research is generally referred to in Norway. The Equity Report, as presented recently by the OECD, shows with all possible clarity the international experience of this. Here the starting point is that a segregated school system is a school system that gets less out of the population overall. The four main points summarised both at the conference in Trondheim, and in the report, are the following: Countries with free choice of schools and many private schools have lower average reading and math skills. In these countries, family backgrounds mean more for learning outcomes than in other countries. The OECD also believes that developing students' sense of belonging to society can be easier if children go to the same school from different backgrounds and that more social segregation exacerbates the conditions of schools receiving the least-resourced children. There is a risk that the most qualified teachers will escape from these schools and thus further exacerbate the situation for the children. The OECD report is very clear that the Christian People's Party and the government parties have done is a wise policy for the future of private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e940	I just needed to make a few small comments at the end of this debate. First of all, I am pleased with this incredible review and the place that the law of high school, which is now approved under this private school law, has got in Stortinget. It's important schools, and it's good schools. Then I also want to comment a little bit on the discussion about commercial schools versus pure parallels to the public that are involved in public curricula. After this debate, I find that there is a significant difference between the Right and the Left, on the one hand, and the Progress Party, on the other, where the Progress Party could wish to allow purely commercial schools where State aid could also benefit. I experience that the Right and Left have had a very clear message through what they have done both before and today in this room at that point in this matter. In the case of cross-border schools, the Christian People's Party can sign all that the representative Lundtigen said about both the municipal and the parent-run branch schools. I wish that engagement had resulted in that we had come up with another solution at that point. In relation to the basis of approval, where the debate is also part of the preparation of the law, and that both the Council of State, the representative of Jensen and others have referred to the fact that we are on the agreement, I read for a certainty what is in the agreement: ‘The majority have noted that the opinion of the host municipality or the host state is not to determine whether an application is to be granted or not. It's the law's purpose to facilitate alternative schools. The majority consider that a no to an application cannot be justified by the budgetary situation.» And on the other hand, ‘The majority assumes that schools are granted recognition when applied for within the defined qualification basis and other requirements of the law. However, the Ministry shall be able to take into account the public school structure, the need for the school and assess the seriousness of the applicant.’;» Finally, it's also natural to say something about the future. There will still be a job to do for the parties to the agreement, namely to design the future and the security of the so-called 6A schools. I am happy to be able to give them also an opportunity. It's a school battle that's important to our country. It's a school team that's earned its rightful place even within a law. With that, I would like to thank the Committee for the work we have done together now, and I look forward to the further work for the new schools that are approved under the Private School Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e966	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e969	When you're systematically not believed, at least by the council, it's very nice to be believed by an old centermate that what you're saying, you mean, and that you've meant it all the time. The Left has presented with the Right, is an overall proposal that we stand for. It's no coincidence. It has a background, and it has been presented as a whole here today. We must be able to have that tone. I repeat, as I said in my previous post, if you first start by saying that this was essentially not like this, then we're inside something that's not very good. I would also like to conclude by saying that, with the general tribute of the public general school at this meeting, I expect dramatic efforts in future government budgets to provide teachers with general education. I expect a reform of general teacher training. I expect that there will be enthusiastic press releases from the Ministry of Knowledge on this in the near future, and that the Council of State will be a successful budgetary winner at all future budgetary conferences, for the words used in this regard, commit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e978	The representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e981	I notice that the representative Lena Jensen believes that we are finally stopping the commercial schools. So this does not stop a single commercial school. But if we're going to base the representative Jensen's definition of commercial school, then it's a school that's not wanted by students and parents. That's why it's commercial. I don't think that's the definition either I or so many others in this room have of commercial schools. I also record that neither the Council of State nor anyone else can refer to research in Norway in the case of Norwegian fresh oils, which show that they have led or lead to increased segregation. What's interesting, on the other hand, is to look at international research as, among other things, In countries with a much higher incidence of inpatients and greater choice between public schools than Norway, there are less differences and social inequalities between students. It's something the government parties and the state council have not wanted to comment on, probably because it doesn't quite fit into the reality picture. I would also like to mention briefly the representative Huitfeldt's observation that the Norwegian unit school works well. Well, I'm not so sure about the 20 pst. by students who have left school without being able to read and write properly, believe that the Norwegian unit school has worked perfectly. Nor am I sure that the enormous social differences we see in the Norwegian public school today are a very good example of a school and a school class that works well, rather the opposite. We have seen that many reports and a lot of research show that the Norwegian single school has failed, and we need a school policy that takes more account of the diversity of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e990	The representative, Anundsen, has spoken twice in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e993	I notice that the Council of State should have followed my advice to record the questions. He answered two out of five, but it's better than none. I think at the same time we got quite an interesting and straightforward clarification. We have heard the representative Lena Jensen, a number of representatives from the government parties, and also the government council in the past, say that some of the reasons why this law is the way it is, are to stop the commercial schools. But in his last post, the Council of State says the opposite. He says on the contrary that he thinks it's great and good with commercial schools – only those who are going to go there have so rich parents that they can pay everything for themselves. If we're first going to talk about it being a goal of balancing social differences, I think it's just a reasoning that's not close to keeping logical goals. So here the Council of State says that commercial schools are good, as long as they're the richest of the kingdoms that go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1000	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 677]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1016	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group, but with a further 5 minutes for the rapporteur. In addition, the President proposes that the Council of State be given a speaking time of up to 5 minutes, and that 5 replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1025	The Department of Ot.prp. No 39 for 2006-2007, proposals for amendments to the Law on Vocational Education. The background to this proposal must be said to be inspired by the Government's proposed amendments to the Law on Secondary Education. In its eagerness to stop high schooling, this has also had consequences for the vocational schools, and the positive development that was in progress for this school battle has stopped. In particular, the changes have an impact on vocational training provided for in the Law on Vocational Education and the corresponding right to funding under the rules of the Law on Vocational Education. The Ministry now also proposes some other amendments to the Law on Vocational Education, but points out that the proposals do not involve any new law on vocational education. The work on the legislative proposal in the Committee has shown that there is a high degree of consensus on important aspects of vocational education. However, as rapporteur of the case, I feel that the opposition is much more willing to clarify the relationship between post-secondary education and higher education, as well as the transition between post-secondary education and university and higher education than the government parties are willing to do. Furthermore, I feel that the opposition wants to ensure the identity of the vocational schools in a much clearer way. The government parties and the Christian People's Party refer to their agreement in the law of free school, which is based on a continuation of today's framework conditions for 6A schools, as well as the possibility of approval of new schools until new legislation is in place during this majority period. The Trade School Act shall be a framework law for short vocational education and training. Just the term ‘professional’ has been one of the themes of this legislative revision. From 2003 there has been a valid definition that there should be a competence that could be put into service in the workplace without further need for general training measures. This definition now wants the department to legislate. In the setting, we will see that the opposition stresses that the term ‘professional’ should not be interpreted too sparsely, and the entire committee points to the need to incorporate other societal needs such as: education in art, music, dance, theatre and Bible schools in this understanding. That the position in this context uses the term ‘course’, a term commonly used for training activities of limited scope, while the opposition is talking about ‘education’, I choose to understand in the best possible way, although it is incomprehensible to me that we could not find a common wording here. Vocational training shall be flexible. These offers shall be capable of being established, modified or closed as the labour market needs change. In the past, the Storting has pointed out the unfortunate fact that it has been possible to approve courses of study at the same level in both the Law of the University of Applied Sciences and the Law of the University of Applied Sciences. The size has asked the department to clean up this, and the committee sees the legislative proposals submitted as a response to the Storting's wish in this regard. The Committee stresses the importance of seeking the clarity of the law to ensure that study offers at a given level are placed in one of the laws. It is important for both providers of different vocational education and students to have a clear and predictable law to deal with. Vocational education may be offered by foundations and other private providers, and by institutions owned by municipalities, county councils or the state, and the same law shall apply to all providers. Vocational education has long existed between the bark and wood in the education system. It is an international trend to take a holistic approach to the educational needs of higher education. The solutions may be different, but it is important that the focus on the need for skills, in an overall economic and social context, is clear. Through the approval system in NOKUT, we have now received an official recognition system that ensures high quality in vocational education and training. Vocational education shall be based on secondary or equivalent real competence. The Committee shares the view of the Ministry that the concept of ‘based on secondary education’ must be given a wide range of content and that, in relation to each vocational education, the competences assumed in relation to admission are defined. The vocational schools are happy to pick up students from work, and the students return to work. It is therefore important, in the Committee's view, that schools be able to use modern equipment in their training and that they have the opportunity to continue a good dialogue in cooperation with the various social actors. Vocational education has its place in a lifelong learning perspective, and an important task for vocational schools is to give people with real skills the opportunity to have the necessary professional fill so that they can switch to a constantly changing labour market. Universities and higher education institutions are currently under two cooperating organisations, while vocational schools are made up of a number of organisations. It is therefore appropriate, in the Committee's view, that the development of the vocational school level should also be linked to a national council. Vocational education has a range from half a year of study to two years of study. We will stress that there is no requirement for vocational education to be a full-time course, but that education can well be taken as part-time or distance learning. Vocational education shall be based, as I said, on secondary or equivalent real skills. There is a different degree of clarification from the opposition’s side and the position in defining the concept of ‘advance building’. The entire committee agrees that a task for the vocational schools is to add up to a specialisation on the basis of certain professional letters. There is also a halt to the agreement on clarification by the Committee. However, the Ministry has stated that it is neither desirable nor possible in general to define vocational education so sparsely. The Ministry stresses that vocational education should meet different needs and that the concept of ‘advanced education’ must therefore have a wide range of content. The opposition lots have exemplified this. In the case of adults without secondary education and adults without the right to obtain secondary education, we have a challenge especially in view of the opportunities for lifelong learning. Migration needs in society only increase, and one of Norway’s advantages in relation to, for example: other parts of Europe, are our great ability to change and to get people back to work. The private sector through different schools and colleges is an important contributor to this work. The ability of vocational training to meet defined continuing training needs in the workplace will be essential. It is therefore very important that the vocational schools have the opportunity to make an individual assessment of the real competence of those students who do not have secondary school. A minority, consisting of the Right, Left and Advance Party, have pointed out that vocational schools must have the opportunity to set up lower-level courses so that students can qualify through such an offer for admission to vocational education. Universities and higher education institutions have today had such an opportunity through their own regulations. We believe that vocational schools should also have the same opportunity. Current subjects in this respect may include, inter alia: be Norwegian, mathematics, study techniques and professional theory, as part of a preparation for the further vocational education of the students. Vocational education is tertiary education, such as higher education and university education. Government parties only point out that vocational education should be a real alternative to higher education, whereas the opposition emphasises that it can be an equivalent offer, and refers to Finland, where they have built a parallel higher-level education system, where you can take both practical and vocational bachelor and master, and also have transition opportunities to the other higher education system. This is a good example of the fact that vocational education can retain its distinctive character by being practical and professional and at the same time equivalent to other higher education. We are far from such a reality in Norway. Is post-secondary education a real alternative to other higher education? Today, 10,000 – 20,000 attend post-secondary schools every year. Only technical technical schools are funded by the State budget and a few kroner have been added so that municipalities can take courses in health matters. Differences between the budget of vocational schools versus universities and the budget of higher education institutions are gigantic. So what about transition possibilities? There is a broad consensus that the vocational schools should not be a blindway in the education cycle, but here we have a long way to go. The path from vocational training to master’s degree in Norway is not easy to see. There are possibilities in today’s legislation where the vocational education concerned can be given a specified distinction in the separate study facilities of the individual higher education institution. Furthermore, the development of a national qualifications framework, related to the European framework, which we expect can be an appropriate tool for describing the relationship between vocational education and higher education and between the level of secondary education and tertiary education. It is important to clarify the relationship between the different educational provision with regard to credit or curtailment in other higher education. The opposition asks for consideration to be given to establishing a system of formal transition between post-secondary and post-secondary education and the development of good, transparent arrangements to demonstrate the competence of vocational education and training. An overall increase has repeatedly underlined the importance of the internationalisation of Norwegian education. It is therefore important that post-secondary students, in line with students at Norwegian universities and universities, may be able to take education abroad, either as part of their Norwegian education or as a continuation of Norwegian education. The opposition has also highlighted another aspect, and it is to ask the Ministry to look at the possibilities for vocational training to help ensure the quality of foreign trade union workers in relation to labour migration. At the same time, we ask that the possibility for foreign skilled workers to be able to build on their professional skills be assessed, so that they can become familiar with and adapt to Norwegian standard requirements and to Norwegian professional life. We know that vocational training in other EEA countries is not necessarily at the level of Norwegian vocational training, and many companies are currently struggling both to obtain skilled workers and not least to raise these workers to a standard that Norwegian companies can be familiar with. In view of the first case in Odelstinget today, this can of course be seen as an anti-dumping measure, and the precarious shortage of labour within a number of disciplines makes it necessary, in our view, to address the problem. There are a number of areas where this is relevant. Building workers and shipbuilding are probably the most well-known, but I can also mention that Norway currently lacks 400 pastries. Other aspects covered by the proposal are the recognition of vocational education and organisational and management requirements. On these points, the Committee concludes its assessments. With regard to the Loan Fund, the Committee is concerned with predictability for the students. The opposition also requests that NOKUT-approved specialised school provision qualify for training support from the Loan Fund. Today, as we understand it, there are some additional demands that the State Treasury has made, among other things. relative to study load and hours. This is quite bureaucratic in part of the providers of vocational education. Many actors have been waiting for clarification in relation to the financing of vocational education. The size has asked for this in 2004, and expected it in 2005, and it has been repeated in 2006. When a case is finally presented, many of us feel that the clarification is being pushed out again in time. To refer the speaker of the LO at the NOCUT conference – according to memory – he said: I thought in 2003 we had managed to lift the vocational education out of high school, but then came the regional message, where one says that funding should be reviewed. I learned once that it is not possible to drown in the same river twice, but there I might have been wrong. It's perhaps another statement that fits better, and it's that a blow under the belt, it has to bend to, said LO's representative. There is, in fact, an overall committee asking for a case to be submitted on the financing of the vocational schools. The opposition also asks for a case on the developmental possibilities and place of vocational education in the education system. Finally, I would like to say that the Committee unanimously agrees that the concepts of vocational education and training are legally protected, in order not to allow unprofessional operators to fly under false flags. With this, I will be allowed to address the proposals in which the Progress Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1094	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1097	It is positive that one of these revisions of the Law on Vocational Education will provide further clarification of the function and place of the vocational schools in the education system. Vocational education is an important alternative to higher education. It is therefore necessary to clarify further the distinction between post-secondary education and post-secondary education through statutory audits. We also record that work is being done on developing a national qualifications framework related to the European Union. It may become important to describe the relationship between vocational education and higher education. In this context, it can also be mentioned that there is already cooperation between some providers of vocational education and higher education. The shortening or adaptation of education is therefore fully possible in today's legislation. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to challenge the higher education institutions to use their professional freedom to further develop cooperation with the vocational schools. The function of vocational schools is also clearly indicated by this revision. Vocational training schools shall have the flexibility to set up and, where appropriate, to provide vocational training, in line with the needs of society, as well as the vocational provision of schools, as underlined. We are also pleased that there are strict requirements for quality. In this way we are pleased that NOKUT approves and assures the quality of vocational education. In addition, an overall committee wants the development of the vocational school level to be linked to a national council. It can be involved and ensure good quality of education. This case concerns a revision of the Law on Vocational Education, not any funding. However, we will refer to our remark in the position, where we refer to a majority comment in the Inst. S. No 166 for 2006-2007 in the context of the treatment of St.meld. No 12 for 2006-2007, Regional advantage – regional future. This is based on a review of the financing of the vocational schools, at the latest, in connection with the transfer of the vocational schools to the new regions. We recognise that funding is a challenge, perhaps especially in health care. However, it must now be said that there is currently some funding in this area, even if it is not very close to full funding. The importance of educating more people into the health and care sector in the coming years is also argued, which we of course agree with. Moreover, it is gratifying that a strong increase in transfers to the municipalities with our red-green government seems to have grown to a total of 5,900 years of care in 2006 and 2007 – despite what the opposition says, that if one does nothing in that field, one will not be able to cope with anything in the care sector. This does not mean that it is not important to focus on educating more people in this area, but it shows that the policy and the increase in transfers to the local government sector is effective in increasing the number of annual shifts in the care and care sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1123	I am somewhat uncertain whether we are able to swing this debate up to the same heights as we did in the previous one, but this is a topic that at least deserves a good debate and a broad review. In the education system, the vocational schools represent an important route to competence. They are a real alternative to higher education and represent a flexibility in many other educational provision missing, precisely because they offer shorter, vocational education between half and two years. The first legislative framework for vocational schools came under the previous government, in 2003. It was important to give the vocational schools a good framework around the activity, because these schools used to have a hard-to-definable place in the education system. It was difficult for both students and schools to deal with fragmented legislation. The right agrees that a clean-up is now taking place in the relationship between the Law of Vocational Education and the Law of Secondary Education. This applies not least to the clarification of the distinction between secondary and post-secondary education, where it is stressed that post-secondary education is to be placed at the level of secondary education. The right also believes that it makes sense to strengthen the status of vocational schools in the education system by providing legal protection for the vocational school title, so that only NOCUT-approved vocational schools can be allowed to call themselves vocational schools. At the same time, we stress that it is not acceptable that anyone who has applied for vocational school approval has waited for over a year – without as much as a feedback from NOKUT on when they can expect the application to be processed. The Ministry’s draft law has not been the starting point for a full review of the Fachscholegesetz, but for a more limited revision. Examination of Ot.prp by the Committee No However, 39 have demonstrated the need for a more thorough review of the vocational schools. The right, together with the Left, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, have therefore made a proposal asking the Government not later than the end of 2008 to bring its own case to the Grand Council on the future development possibilities, funding and place of vocational education. This is not least important in terms of funding. The free principle of higher education is enshrined in the Law of Higher Education and since vocational education is to be a real alternative to higher education, it is natural to think in the same ways for those schools. It is a fundamental principle in the Norwegian school system that it should be equal to the right to education, and it must also apply in the field of vocational education. Today, there is a great deal of unfairness in the financing of the vocational schools. For historical reasons, technical vocational schools have had stable funding, while most other vocational schools have not received anything. Therefore, as the system operates, a person wishing to take advantage of vocational education in the field of health will have to pay substantial amounts of his own pocket, while one who will do the same in the field of technical education will receive funding from the State. When we then know that there are almost only women who choose health education, and almost only men who demand technical education, there is a picture of systematic differences in the choice of vocational education, where gender and the personal economy are crucial factors. To this end, the right wishes to establish a financing mechanism that ensures a genuine choice for each individual, regardless of gender and financial capacity. In this context, I have noticed the signals sent by the Ministry to grant grants for specific priority courses, such as: training in health care, but considers that the signal that has arrived is not sufficient. There is a need to see the various vocational education courses in the context, not least because the Government will leave responsibility for the operation and financing of the vocational schools in the regions, while the Stortinget will provide the framework for the State grant of the vocational education programmes through its treatment of the State budget. Together with the Progress Party and the Left, the Right has also proposed that accredited vocational schools should be able to set up study offers of a lower duration of up to one year as part of the student’s preparation for further vocational education. It is important to stress that the vocational schools play a significant role in the Norwegian education system and that they are one of many ways to become competent. Probably the vocational schools should have got an even stronger position than they do today. They are also important to ensure that there is a real choice and a real alternative for those who want to choose a shorter vocational education.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1163	To the last speaker, I just want to say that I really don't hope that this debate will be drawn up to the same extent as the previous one, because there is a whole committee that supports the government bill. On behalf of the SV, I would just like to say that it is good that we have this proposal for treatment in Odelstinget today, for this relates to a school battle and an area that needs more focus than it has had. I should honestly admit that dealing with this matter has given me new knowledge of colleges, and it is in itself a good thing that we get more knowledge and knowledge of this. So much has been said about the individual parts of the law from other speakers here – the case-speaker had a very tidy and neat speech – so I should not take the individual parts apart from what has been said. Freddy de Ruiter has also made it clear on behalf of the government party what our position is. I just want to say on behalf of SV that we are happy that this is a law that collects a whole big thing, and we are happy that there is a law that is essentially well received among those that he is indebted to. The question of funding is a question that may have been very focused on the individual paragraphs of the bill. Of course, it's natural. As the previous speaker pointed out, the historical reason why the funding system for this type of school is as it is, is that some schools have 100 pst. government funding, while others do not have funding at all. This has been taken by the Government. In the context of the regional communication, we have indicated that we believe that this is a school battle for which the future regions should assume responsibility and that the funding will be reviewed in connection with it. As far as I know, this is a work that the department is already doing. I just need a little bit to say that this is not due to the will of the government. There are historical reasons why conditions are as they are, and it requires a review to find a financing system that can stand in the future. There's a work that we from SV's page here in Stortinget should follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1180	The changes that are now proposed in the Fachskolegesetz are, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, good clarifications. We are concerned that vocational education is given a law that gives the status that the education deserves. The vocational schools represent an important alternative in our education system. For many, shorter vocational education is a good alternative to higher education. However, this legal work does not indicate in any way that the treatment of vocational schools by the Stortinge has come into being. Many open questions remain related to the future development possibilities of vocational education, funding and not least the place in the education system. Vocational education is an independent education which does not require additional competence but which gives full competence that can be used immediately in the workplace. Nevertheless, some will have a desire for university-level studies after a course of vocational education. It is therefore appropriate to consider, in an overall review, a system of formal transition between post-secondary credits and study credits. There should be work on getting good, transparent arrangements to demonstrate the skills actually provided by vocational education. On one point, there is disagreement in the Committee on this matter. This concerns the obligation to finance specialised schools. The Christian People's Party wants a state funding to be introduced for the vocational schools. We believe it is unreasonable that only some types of vocational schools, such as the technical ones, receive funding for historical reasons, while a number of other important and socially useful subjects do not have funding. This means that the students must pay the study even if they choose such a type of vocational education. I expect the ministry to come back with a review of the funding in good time before the responsibility for operating and financing is transferred to the regions. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for vocational training and training in other social needs that are not provided by the public. Such training may include: in Bible schools, in art schools and in music and dance schools – to name a few. We are satisfied that we have been assured that the fresh oils that have previously been placed in the hood have been installed. 6A, will have equal framework conditions if they choose to comply with the law on vocational education. This has been very important given the three former colleges that went over to higher education and that experienced that they lost money on it. We believe that a promise of continued framework conditions could provide an important incentive for more people to choose to become specialist schools with the professional quality stamp that a NOCUT approval will provide. We think this will be for the best for many of the schools and not least for the students. However, this presupposes a considerable reduction in the time required to deal with applications. We expect the Department and the Council of State to provide NOKUT with sufficient resources to meet the applications that will come in the years to come, to be approved as a specialised school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1197	For a long time, there has been a need to clarify the relationship between the continuing schools and the vocational schools. The centre party supports the initialisation like Ot.prp. No 39 for 2006-2007. The law is a framework law. In the case of adults with completed continuing or corresponding real skills, it is valid for further education from half a year to two years. Vocational education is a vocational training course which will meet in a very special way the changing needs for skills in the labour market. Flexibility in creation, in change and in the closure of supply is therefore important. Both the NOCUT recognition and the requirements for registration in the unitary register provide security for those who provide education, for those who need different education and for the individual student to whom this applies. From our point of view, we would also like to stress the need and the value of a quick handling process to achieve what one here has as its purpose. Financing is a challenge. Several speakers have already shown examples of this, and it is also shown in the setting, for example. the historical difference between technical colleges and health and care education. It's a gender dimension that can also come in here. Likewise, the emphasis that the plaar is made from different parties, which is about equal rights to education. We look forward to the review that the Ministry will have when it comes to funding, and we also look forward to the review that is announced and that is confirmed in another case today, namely fresh-soul law, which also applies to the 6A-soles. The Committee and the Ministry have provided a good basis for a clear and straightforward clarification. From our point of view, I would just like to wish the department the best of luck with the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1208	Professional debates have been on many occasions. There is one good thing about them, and that is that every time you say that this is a school battle with great potential. There's also something negative about them, and it's that we never manage to stop long enough to say what the big potential is. In the last period I was a member of the Grand Prix Committee, before the election in 2001, it made a certain impression to me that we chose a study trip abroad to look at countries that have systematically built up a parallel run to what we in Norway can call higher education and university, and that have given it a solid and real place that matters. As the matter is now before the Committee, it is open in the sense that the law should be flexible and that funding should be recovered. It is on that basis that the Left has a proposal that we share with the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party on. It is that we ask for a separate case to be brought back on the future development possibilities, funding and place of vocational education. It's a suggestion that's almost a repeater. However, when the proposal is promoted, it is from the serious point of view that looking at tertiary education pathways, which are also something other than higher education and universities, is important. Professional schools have that potential in them. There are countries around us that make both Bachelor's degrees and Master's degrees that are perfectly practical. I know that there are also issues that are being discussed with strength in such disciplines in our country. The background for promoting the proposal is to do so. Once again, it's amazing that you can't agree more on it than that it's the minority – that is, the parties that are not in government – that are behind it. When the Left sticks to this proposal, it's because we stick to a line we've had for a long time, that's that this is a school battle with great potential for development. We also insist on proposal No. 2, for which I give no other reason than that given by previous speakers. I would like to link my concluding remarks to the fact that in the relationship between this vocational school law and the law of high school or private school that will have a majority here later this evening, it is an important clearing work to take place. Clean-up work has begun, with comments contained in the text of the Law on Secondary Education/Private Education. The left considers that the comments have not led to objectives. We believe that there are some prerequisites that create conditions for the coming years, but we would like to stress very strongly that there should be very heavy reasons why schools that are to be subject to a law on high school will be legally anchored if they do not choose a connection to the law on vocational education. The fact that they choose a connection with the law on vocational education is a fair and fair choice, but we would like to point out that it takes a lot more to accept a different legal relationship than the one in a law on free school that has a temporary place after what the majority of people put up here today. It is very important for these so-called 6A schools, which run schools with socially important assignments, but which are private and which have a long, long tradition in our country, that they get proper living conditions even in the years to come. They have often represented pioneer activity within the education system in Norway, and it is very important that they also have such a place. With these comments, we are voting in favour of the proposals that have been submitted and have nothing else to add to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1224	Last year I notified Stortinget that there would be a review of the vocational school law in addition to the review of the law on high school, which Odelstinget has just debated. I have submitted to Stortinget a proposal for amendments to the law on vocational education and not a new law on vocational education. The main purpose of the amendment has been to clarify the role and place of vocational education in the education system and to clarify the relationship between secondary and post-secondary schools. The Trade School Act is a framework law. Vocational education is aimed at adults and is based on completed secondary education, or equivalent real competence. It is an intention that the Trade Schools Act should facilitate flexibility in the establishment and closure of offers, so that education can be guided by the changing needs of the labour market for capacity and competence. Vocational education shall be training courses of a duration of between half and two years. It is proposed to lay down a legal requirement for vocational training to provide skills that can be used in the workplace without further training measures. There is a clarification of the term ‘professional’ in accordance with the NOCUT guidelines. The government is concerned that students should feel confident that the education they have chosen is of high quality and that it follows the rules laid down by the law. The current system for the recognition of vocational education and training under the auspices of the National Agency for the Quality of Education, NOCUT, implies such a quality stamp. Since 1 January 2004, NOKUT has approved nearly 500 vocational education courses. The body has made a great effort to develop standards and criteria for approval, based on the provisions of the law. An electronic manual for applicants and an application form has also been developed. The general rule should remain, as at present, that NOCUT approves the individual training offer, but operators as such should be able to obtain approval under certain conditions and be entitled to set up new offers. It will help to support the flexibility in the establishment and closure of study offers for which the Fachschulegesetz is intended to facilitate. Furthermore, it is proposed that all providers of vocational training should have a satisfactory internal quality assurance system. All universities and colleges now have this in place, and several providers of vocational education have established it. I am concerned about getting a law anchor on this requirement in order to secure the students. It is also proposed to provide legal protection in the law with the terms «vocational education» and «vocational education». At the same time, operators are required to register in the Entity Register. This is also part of strengthening the place of vocational education in the education system and ensuring students against misleading marketing. Furthermore, changes to rules on organisation and management are proposed in order to ensure equal rules for public and private operators. Under the new provisions, a separate board of directors shall be the uppermost body of the technical school. This helps to make it clear that vocational schools and vocational education are a separate training offer with a separate role and status in relation to other training provision. As far as funding is concerned, we propose that this should continue to be a budgetary mechanism. The amount of the annual grant shall be determined by the Stortinge in the context of the annual budgetary procedures. In addition, the Ministry proposes to legislate for the benefit of students for government grants and self-payment. Access to self-payment is not regulated by the law of the day. Regulationing this relationship would therefore provide clarification and legal predictability for the students. Self-payment by students should be possible only if it is not a condition for the State grant to be free of charge. For the treatment of St.meld. No 12 for 2006-2007, the Regional Communication, and Innst. S. No 166 for 2006-2007, it is decided that responsibility for vocational education and training will be transferred to the new regions. The financing of post-secondary education shall be reviewed in the context of the transfer. The ministry is already doing this. Vocational education is an important category of education in our society. One of the most important tasks for me and the Government is to facilitate a society to acquire the skills that are needed at all times and at the level needed for the individual functions. Cooperation between education providers and employers is important for our success. This cooperation must mainly take place locally and regionally. I am therefore very confident that the new regions will be well suited to prioritizing and adapting vocational education and training to regional employment. I'm also pleased that there's a broad majority in Stortinget that stands behind the law. That there are two verbal suggestions from the minority, I register, and there are also processes we are doing. The law as such is widely accepted in Stortinget, and it is a strength for the vocational schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1258	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1261	As a result of the search by the government parties for some imaginary school profitors, we got a freezing permit that included in the medical schools and specialized schools. We have now received a bill from the Government that aimed to complete the 6A schools, but after the agreement with the Christian People's Party, the 6A schools are continued in the law on high school. There is no suggestion from the Government or the Christian People's Party to restore what has been said about these schools in Section 8 of the Law on Vocational Education. My question to the Council of State is: What legal status now exists for these specialised schools, which have been approved under the Law of the University of Applied Sciences, and which have been financed under the Law of the University of Applied Sciences?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1268	It will be the same legal state as they are under today. This means that in the private school law we have made changes that also affect the 6A schools, and said that we will come back within this ageing period with a proposal for a new law. The clean-up we are now doing between the different schools makes the 6A schools safe and predictable and secure anchoring in a new law. This legal cleanup is not politically motivated, as some in today's debate may give the impression. This is due to a desire that we get a clarification in the law, that the vocational schools have their own place, that the private schools have their own place, and that one should try to adapt to the law. Those who do not want to do it for different and maximum explainable reasons shall be anchored in a new law. As I said, in the last odelsting debate, we promised that this would happen within this magnification period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1273	Funding for vocational schools is an important element in making the right to education real and equal for all. That's the way I was in my previous post, that it's not just a historical contingent inequality, but also an inequality that now gives itself a pretty strong impact on gender, equality and so far on the economics. In the context of the revised national budget, the right has asked questions to the Ministry for the financing of specialised schools. I would like to have the Council of State's assessment of how he views a future funding system for the vocational schools, because in my opinion it must be that when we have a principle of free higher education, and we have a school class that is to be an independent alternative to higher education, the same principle of free education must also apply there. I would like to have the State Council's comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1282	This is today, as it has been in the past, a framework regime. This means that it is the Storting that, in budgetary decisions, provides for the amount of money to be spent by the Council of State on this scheme. Then there are, just as the representative Soreide had in mind, historical reasons why this has evolved differently. The technical colleges currently have funding, while other new offers – including health professionals, which I understand are at the heart of the representative – do not have the same level of funding. What we do in the first place is that we need to clean up which schools can call themselves colleges, and which have a legal protection that's in the title. It will remove some unprofessional actors. We'll be left with those schools that are actually colleges. Then we will review the entire funding of these specialised schools in connection with the transfer to the regions. That work started in the department, and I can only say today that it will be completed in good time before this is transferred to the regions. But we see, of course, the challenge facing the representative's questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1291	No more people have asked for the word in reply. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 691]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1309	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time and that those on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1316	I would first of all like to thank the Committee on good cooperation and a good deal of work on this law. Since I have so little time to explain this matter, which really consists of five matters, I will only go into the main principles contained in the different laws. I ask the minority to explain its position, where these differ from the majority. For me, this is a brand day. One thing that was from my side was a Document No. Eight proposals in the previous ageing period, but which were voted down, are being adopted today. We adopt today the legal regulation of advertising in school. Children and young people experience an increasingly strong commercial purchasing pressure, and more and more advertising is directed at young people. Children and young people need an arena where they are not exposed to advertising. The legal regulation adopted today imposes an obligation on the school owner to ensure that students are not exposed to advertising that is suitable for creating commercial pressure or that can change attitudes, behaviour and values. I would also like to stress that the bill is not intended to affect the use of the Internet, TV, newspapers, magazines, etc. as part of the teaching. Business visits and partnerships between school and local employment and business are also not affected by this bill. This prohibition will mean that the school owner will have to focus on advertising and on the negative pressure that students experience, and have a conscious relationship to it. I'm very happy that the bulk of the population wants to regulate this. Not all parties support legal regulation and believe that this is the right instrument. Nevertheless, the entire Grand Committee emphasises that schools have a very important role to play in disseminating knowledge and conscious attitudes to consumption, commercialisation and purchasing pressure. It's unfair that we don't have a free high school. It is unfair for young people to have to pay in expensive courts to obtain the teaching materials they need in order to complete higher education. By introducing free secondary education, we will be able to improve the quality of school and help everyone, regardless of social background, to receive secondary education. This is an investment in Norway as a knowledge nation. The government introduces gradually free learning material in Vg2 from the autumn of 2007. Vg3 and Vg1 will come after the autumn of 2008 and the autumn of 2009. The law will be amended – both in the Education Act and in the Private School Act – and the school owners will be responsible for providing students with the necessary printed and digital learning materials and necessary digital equipment. The school owners decide how they will organise the free scheme. In addition, a non-necessary scholarship is introduced through the State Educational Loan Fund, which is intended to cover the expenditure of students on other learning materials and necessary individual equipment. It is important that students in secondary education have access to adequate ICT equipment. It is the school owners' duty to make such equipment available to students, but it is not necessary to achieve the objectives of the curriculum that students have their own portable PC. We are very positive that the states want to bet on their own laptop. This is possible, and we support the arrangements that exist. This is possible within the limits of the proposition. The Storting supports the Government's proposal for the approval of secondary schools based on intergovernmental agreements. The majority is satisfied that the Government wants a statutory accident insurance scheme covering all pupils. It is important that all students are adequately insured and that students are treated equally throughout the country. Accident insurance is a matter that has appeared both in the media and in Stortinget repeatedly. I am very happy that this proposal comes on the table now, so that you get a similar accident insurance in the country. The Government also has a proposal to strengthen the links of the vocational training student with the county municipalities, thus providing county councils with tools to facilitate the organisation of apprentices in enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1339	There's no doubt that the air has gone out of the balloon a little bit now. We'll see what we can do with that. When I went around in the election campaign in the autumn of 2005, a lot of people were busy with school, and especially with school. In every school debate that I took part in the election harvest, free teaching material and advertising in school were carefully debated. One of the reasons why the parties that are in position today won many of the school debates around in high school were these two things. I know that there are many students, youth parties and youth organisations who are happy today. Two of the most important issues from the 2005 elections are now being legalised. Free upper secondary education has been an important issue to introduce the principle of equal rights to education for all. For years this case has been the most important one for the Young People's Party, AUF. When I attended Frydenlund High School, Trond Giske was Minister of Education and Church. Then all the steps had free learning material. It saved the students a lot of expenses from buying textbooks. At the moment that the Offices of the Ministry were occupied by the Right, all the school books in a number of secondary schools were sold, and a new fight for the student organisations and youth politicians was in progress. We introduce from the harvest of free printed and digital learning materials in higher education, step 2. A stepping-up plan to have free learning material introduced at all stages after three years is now under way – this as a two-tier scheme in which the school owner is responsible for keeping students with printed and digital learning material, but decides how to organise the free system. A non-need-tested scholarship is introduced through the State Loan Fund, which is intended to cover the expenses of students for other learning materials and necessary individual equipment. No one now has to go with a hat to the principal to ask for extra money to cover the books, because the parents can't afford it. We are hoped that the scheme – and the Government – will continue beyond the two years that remain, so that the scheme will be established. The proposal for advertising, like free teaching material, has its background in the Soria Moria Declaration. The students are bombarded daily with commercialization: at home, in leisure and in public spaces. We have a responsibility as politicians to protect our children as far as possible from the increasing purchasing pressure we see in society. The school should be an arena where advertising is not part of the teaching material and the wall decoration. It will in some cases be difficult to distinguish between harmful advertising and harmless advertising. The law indicates that judgement can be exercised. The legislative proposal is not intended to prevent schools from using the Internet and newspapers as part of their education. Partnerships between schools and local employment and business will also be protected from the legislative proposal, as the rapporteur also briefed on. The party points out in its comments that it will be difficult for each school to assess which advertising products will affect students to a greater or lesser extent. There are a number of cases where judgement will not be difficult. A poster from Bama in the school canteen asking to eat more fruit and green, and an advertisement from Diesel with the image of a cool jeans, are two widely different things in my eyes. The fear in this case is, as in many other cases, the United States. There, Burger King started hanging out advertising posters at a kindergarten in the early 1900s, and that dance on it. Various schools were sponsored by Coca-Cola if they hung up advertising around the school building. This in turn led to schools having to sell a certain number of Coca-Cola bottles and other products to continue to accept the subsidy. We don't want it like that. This bill is a clear signal to commercial operators to stay away from children and not to view children as the largest consumer of their products. We don't want a school floating over by advertising. Municipalities have good advice, and it should not be necessary for schools to be sponsored by commercial actors. That is why, like many of the young people I met in the election campaign, I am glad that we are adopting the changes in the law today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1358	Let me first remind the representative Ljunggren that the Labour Party voted against a proposal from the Advance Party on free school material from the autumn of 2007. So now you have to wait three years to fulfill your own promises. If the Workers' Party had supported the proposals of the Advance Party, all secondary school students would receive free school supplies from the fall of. They'd probably be a lot more satisfied with that. This setting is about five different issues, and I'm going to focus on two of these. The Government proposes the introduction of a ban on advertising at school. The background to the wish of the government parties is to define the commercialisation of the public space. It's a rather dramatic starting point, because public space is far more than public owned schools, it's also about advertising in squares and streets – and it's maybe a ban along the way there as well. It makes you wonder where this is going to stop. Many schools have valuable and useful business agreements, such as: by computer companies sponsoring ICT equipment to students against a poster for Dell or Samsung. Other schools receive travel bags with logo, rulers, writing pads, etc. Now this can end. There are no other Nordic countries that have imposed a ban on advertising at school. Today, all such questions are handled by the responsible principal at each school or through his own regulations adopted by the school owner. The progress party still has confidence that the municipalities and the principals have the same ability to assess what is reasonable and useful advertising in school, and what is not. The adoption of unnecessary and impractical prohibitions is outside the scope of the Progress Party. There is consensus in the Committee that it is important to guarantee students rights in the event of injury better than is the case today. The Government therefore proposes the introduction of a separate non-life insurance obligation. This is in agreement with the Progress Party. However, I am quite surprised that the Government proposes that the obligation to take out non-life insurance for students should be limited to the damage caused by an accident. The Ministry’s justification is that there is rarely a disease that can be related to harmful exposure at school. However, the Ministry does not rule out this. The student organisation considers that diseases such as back and neck disorders due to poorly adapted workplaces, or asthma stocks due to poor indoor climate, may be relevant diseases that may trigger insurance schemes if adequate causality can be demonstrated. As I see it, there is an assessment that assumes that there will never be any relevant causal relationship, and therefore insurance coverage is unnecessary. It is a strange approach to the issue. The Ministry of Justice writes in its reply to the hearing: ‘We have some doubts that the arguments that students can rarely experience illnesses as a result of schooling or that insurance companies can be presented with unsubstantiated claims are good enough to allow the insurance scheme to cover only damages. It may appear less reasonable that losses resulting from damage should be covered but not losses due to disease. The fact that the injury rate is low may be cited as an argument that the few accidents should be protected by insurance.’ I think Knut Storberget's department has very good arguments, and I am a little surprised that the Minister of Knowledge and the Ministry of Knowledge have not followed up the Ministry of Justice's observation of this unfairness. Then it is good that the Progress Party has initiated a proposal to include losses as a result of both injury and disease. In addition to being in line with the assessments of the Ministry of Justice, the proposal is supported by an overall opposition. I hope that the government parties will consider this once more during the debate, so that an aggregate increase can go in order to strengthen the students' right to compensation in case of school loss, regardless of whether it is related to illness or injury. As a result, I would like to raise a point of order. 1, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, and Proposal No. 2, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1385	The representative Anders Anundsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1388	Several of the changes currently proposed by the Government are largely agreed. In particular, the amendments to the Training Act on the recognition of intergovernmental agreements and a collective accident insurance scheme apply to all pupils. The right view Government deserves to be praised for the changes it is currently proposing. Nevertheless, the Right, along with the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, want to go further than the Government does in terms of the insurance of students. We believe that insurance must cover illness in addition to accidents. It's unnatural to make a distinction between accident and disease. Students are often as long at school as — often longer than — workers are at work. Sickness arising from school conditions or from school activities should be as natural as insuring students against an accident event. There is also much agreement on the amendments to the Training Act on Vocational Training. The right, together with the Progress Party and the Left, has put forward proposals to continue to report on their activities at the elected level, because it needs to be a good anchor for the activities of elected bodies in order to achieve better results in vocational training. In the case of the legal regulation of advertising in school, the consensus is smaller. For the Right part, it is important to stress that there is no large advertising press in the Norwegian school today. In our opinion, the local school owners and school managers have managed what is of commercial pressure against school, in a good way, which was also confirmed, among other things. by the Children’s Ombudsman during the open hearing of the Committee. Although, like all the other parties on the Stortinget, the Right does not want the school to be a commercial arena, we do not see any point in imposing a discretionary rule of law to prohibit a non-existent problem. In addition, enforcement of this provision will be difficult. A supervisor in how school owners should deal with advertising, with good advice and tips, on the other hand, we would like to welcome. In the next area too, there may well be some lines of distinction regarding the legalisation of the responsibility of the school owners for obtaining the necessary printed and digital educational material for secondary school students. When the representative Anna Ljunggren was going to tell the story of what it was like during Trond Giske's time as the Council of State, that story probably wasn't quite correct. All the steps didn't have free learning material. What was the reality was that it was spent 200 million. NOK to purchase some books that were lent to some students. So there was a cut of one-two books on each student, and there was a loan arrangement that included: The student organisation thought that it was extremely poor, especially because it did not allow it to incorporate the teaching materials with study techniques. What happened when we took over the government power was that the books remained in the school, or they were sold. The money was spent on the school, so during our government period, the transfer to educational resources for high school students increased from 200 million. kr under Trond Giske till 750 mill. NOK when our government went off. The right already has in connection with St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007 stated that PC is a necessary digital educational tool, and encouraged together with the other opposition parties to propose that the Government define PC as a necessary digital educational tool. The parties voted against it. We therefore see it as natural that school owners cannot oblige students to get their own PC for education without funding it. It is also reasonable to limit any excess to DKK 800 per year, equal to the lowest level of the non-necessaryly tested grant for equipment that all students receive through the Loan Fund. The right is in favour of the legalization of the school owners' responsibility for the necessary teaching materials, but we are sceptical about turning this expenditure over to the school owners. It is in reality a discharge from the red-green government when the law is not followed by a real full funding. Right does not want to contribute to it, and will, on that basis and with the premises of the Government, vote against the law of it now. There are no school owners today who can get their students in Vg2 for the autumn PC, printed and digital learning materials for the funding that Regeringen has put on the table. SV representative Per-Olav Lauvstad in Akershu County simply states that the Government's system of free teaching materials in higher education is only a loan scheme. It explains why the State appropriations will only apply in the first three years. Both the Right Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party agree with the Student Organisation that such a lending scheme is a pedagogical poor solution that gives students poorer prerequisites for acquiring and updating good knowledge. In addition, the experience gained from schools that have borrowed portable PCs comes, and they are quite clear that lending is a bad scheme from a maintenance and update perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1405	The Christian People's Party supports the work of countering advertising in schools, including: through regulatory regulation. Although advertising in school does not seem to be a major problem today, we know that commercial players will be able to see a large market in school. Advertising deals with, among others: on a long-term strategy for branding. School must not be a commercial press arena. School books must be free of advertising. Students shall be entitled to move in an environment where they are not subject to commercial pressure or influence. There are too few commercial pockets for children and young people in their childhood today. School must be one of those arenas. For the Christian People's Party, it is an important condition with the law that it does not restrict the use of aids that contain advertising, such as newspapers, journals, magazines and especially the Internet. These are important tools that can be of great help and benefit if properly used. School is an important arena, and it has an important task to teach students to make good use of these tools, with a healthy scepticism. As the legislative proposal now exists, we do not believe that it limits the possibility of cooperation with local enterprises, cultural institutions and organisations. The legislative proposal provides a basis for the provision of regulations in support of local discretion. I don't think it's enough that just a guide is being prepared. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the central guidelines for the practice of the law must be given a regulatory status. I think this will make the law an even better tool for the individual teacher and school owner to prevent the advertising and commercialisation of the school. In the bill, the Ministry proposes to open up the county to demand a percentage from the students to cover part of the cost of purchasing laptops. Reference is made to the annual non-necessary learning programme. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to reconsider the size of the scholarship now when this is also going to be used for PC. There is reason to state that the Christian People's Party agreed with the Government to introduce free teaching materials in high school. But we prayed – and still pray – the Government follows developments closely to ensure that the scheme does not become a purely lending scheme with a lot of bureaucracy and little up-to-date material. The Ministry proposes that the composition of the vocational training title be as in the past. However, the Christian People's Party believes that this composition has a weakness, and that is that the pedagogical staff must not be represented. The county can include them, but that's not a requirement. We propose that the Vocational Training Programme should have at least one representative of the pedagogical staff on a proposal from the teacher organisations. There is a requirement in the law that the overall competence under the heading should cover the entire 4-year course of training, both in school and in the enterprise. We believe that, in addition to the social partners and students, one must ensure the representation of the pedagogical staff in the law. With regard to the proposal on accident insurance, the Christian People's Party believes that it must also be able to include illness as a result of schooling. It is important for the Christian People's Party that schools that will be approved under the private school law, which will be adopted later today, are covered by their expenditure on the type of accident insurance. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to raise a proposal no. 3, which is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1422	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1425	This case deals with a series of individual questions. I have to comment briefly on them. Firstly, on the issue of a ban on advertising, I agree with the Right-wing Representative that there is no pressing problem. But I've been thinking for many years that what is normatively wise can also be stated normatively by means of a rule of law. We have different legal provisions in Norway. We have some legal provisions that are normative, and then we have someone who's about fine and coercion, to say it that way. This is a rule of law that I feel is under the normative title. That is why the Left – along with the majority – is voting for that proposal. When we first have to have such a legal provision, it must at least be possible to draw up a guide and draw the difference between what is advertising and what is intelligent, wise cooperation with, for example. business activities, for which there is a long tradition in Norwegian school. We have a note on this and we are here with, among other things, Christian People's Party. This is the proposal that we have in common with the Advancement Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, which insists not only on non-life insurance, but also on sickness. I think it's well argued for that. We are in favour of that proposal, together with the minority in the committee. I would like to make a few brief comments about vocational training. The left is on two proposals. One is that it is important that vocational training students become more important. We have marked it by the fact that they are also going to report to the elected level. The reason we're in it is not only in this case, but also further. We are generally concerned about revisiting a broader local debate on school content. We think in many ways – at least after what I can observe through my political experience over many, many years – that the ombudsman role is becoming ever smaller and smaller for the elected people. You're delegating more and more, and a lot of what you've delegated is right. However, understanding how to find practical solutions is crucial to contributing to the solutions. Often, as a local politician, and also as a member of the government and in other contexts, I have felt that we are almost creating systems that go on autopilot, and the quality in Norway is very good, with many skilled professionals in our systems, both local and national. But if politicians do not take back some important pieces of the ombudsman role, it will also not be possible to do the political craft necessary to achieve cross-ethnic cooperation, between trade union boundaries, etc. I think it's politics. It may be an underestimated part of the policy. Putting together cultures where people work across and assist each other in that way is an important part of the policy. We've been up to it earlier today, and that's my reason to stick with the Right Party and the Advance Party on the subject of vocational training. When we stand with the Christian People's Party on the composition of the name locally, it's because we think it's a contradiction that you can bring with you nationally, among other things. pedagogical staff, but this is not so necessary locally. Is it the case that there should be bodies which should in practice become meeting places between the various groups involved in the job, i.e. those who are employees, employers and the school, it is very important that they are represented around the same table. It's a classic Norwegian model that you put people around a table to find practical solutions. We believe, like the Christian People's Party, that the paragraph of the Training Act relating to these subjects should also include a supplement to include representatives of those who have been included on our side of the proposal, among others. from educational staff. It's a sign that everyone has to be around the table. There may be some internal medical balances between the social partners here. In that case, it's beyond my understanding and I also want to say mind, because I think it's important that those who belong to sit around the table. That is why, together with the Christian People's Party, we are on proposal No. 3 here today. With these comments, we will follow the proposals I have now made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1442	In Ot.prp. No 41 for 2006-2007, the Government has proposed various changes to the Training Act and the Law on Secondary Education. The proposals concern the regulation of the law on advertising in schools, the regulation of the responsibility of the school owner to keep students with the necessary printed and digital teaching materials in secondary education, a new provision on the recognition of secondary schools based on intergovernmental agreements, a new provision on collective accident insurance and amendments to the provisions of the Training Act on vocational and vocational training. The background to the proposal on the regulatory regulation of advertising in school is the government's stated objective in the Soria Moria Declaration to counter the commercialisation of the education sector and to limit the commercialisation of public space. The new legal provision says that the school owner should ensure that students are not exposed to advertising that is suitable for creating commercial pressure or that can significantly affect attitudes, behaviour and values. The proposal implies that the school owner must exercise discretion in the specific case. I believe that school owners, school leaders and teachers are the closest ones to assess what is undesirable and harmful influence. However, in order to help ensure that discretion does not become arbitrary, I believe that the legal provision should be supplemented by a counsellor on advertising, sponsorship and other promotional activities in the school. The supervisor will be able to provide guidance and have an important role to play in the practice of the provision. In order for the supervisor to be good and work as intended, I would like to invite school owners, consumer authorities, stakeholder organisations, the advertising industry and the business community to engage in a dialogue in the process of building the supervisor. In the 2007 budget, the Government followed up the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration on free teaching material for high school students. That is why we are now proposing that the Education Act and the Private School Act legislate that the school owner is responsible for providing secondary education students with the necessary printed and digital learning materials and digital equipment. Some school owners will choose to make portable or personal PC compulsory in school work. It must then be possible to assume that the PC is used to replace traditional printed learning material and the need for desktop PCs at school. This could provide the school owner with a savings that must be included in the financing of portable PCs. At the same time, students, if they get their own laptop, will also be able to save expenses for the calculator, draft books, etc. It is therefore proposed to allow the school owner to demand a certain percentage of the student to cover part of the cost of a laptop. The possibility of requiring such an excess shall be assumed that students will have a savings related to expenditure on other individual equipment and that the student will retain the PC after high school. I'm also referring to the proposition about the other conditions around this. The Government proposes a provision of the Training Act which allows for the approval of secondary schools based on intergovernmental agreements. An official authorisation shall include, inter alia: that schools can set their stand and issue Norwegian diplomas for completion and passing higher education — something that is not possible in today’s legislation. In practice, this will be a limited number of schools, and I believe that such schools could promote international cooperation in culture, language, education and business for both Norwegian and foreign children. The Government has proposed a new provision in the Training Act on Obligations for Municipalities and Municipalities to Insure Accidents for Students. A similar provision has been proposed in the Law on Secondary Education. All counties and most municipalities already have such a scheme, but the purpose of the new provision is to ensure that all pupils, irrespective of their place of residence, have the same right to insurance cover in the event of an accident. I believe that such an insurance would provide security and predictability for students and parents in the event of an accident. The aim of the proposals for amendments to the provisions of the Training Act on vocational and vocational training is to improve the quality of vocational and professional training by simplifying regulations and adapting them to current needs, inter alia. related to the tasks of the social partners in the regional public training system and the organisation of the participation of the parties. The background to the proposal for amendments to the provisions on vocational and vocational training is inter alia: introduction of the Knowledge Lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1463	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1466	We often get feedback from students who have been exposed to illness or harm in different ways during school. The hearing film by the Ministry of Justice reads: ‘We have some doubts about the arguments that students can rarely experience diseases as a result of schooling or that insurance companies can be presented with unsubstantiated claims are good enough to allow the insurance scheme to cover only damage’. It goes on to say: ‘In our view, there is also reason to ask questions about why students have protection against occupational diseases when they are in professional practice, but not when they are in school.’ It is tempting to make the Ministry of Justice's question my own and to ask the question as to why sickness and occupational disease are not covered by the present proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1483	The Professional Injury Committee, which presented NOU 2004:3 on insurance against occupational injury, also has a restriction on occupational disease. As we consider it, it is very rare for school students to develop diseases associated with harmful effects on school and reported to the social security system as occupational diseases. Students are also rarely in contact with harmful substances or processes suitable for causing disease. So now we're going to take the first step to get a uniform school insurance system. It's a significant step forward. We will continue to assess whether enlargement will be necessary, but as far as we see today, there should not be a basis for saying that this protection is needed. We are also in doubt that this could lead to an attempt to get under the scheme, even if the damage has not been done in the school, but in another venue. These are things we'll review continuously. We now take an important first step, and we register the questions raised by the Ministry of Justice and also by the representative of Eriksen Soreides, and we will consider them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1492	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1495	I would like to comment on some of the individual elements of this bill. Of course, the proposal in the bill on advertising, as mentioned by several, is based on the government statement's objective of countering the commercialisation of schools and in the school sector. This is important, and it is necessary. It is now the school owner’s and school management’s duty to ensure that students are not exposed to advertising that creates undue commercial pressure and that can significantly affect attitudes, behaviour and values, among others. in the field of school, in textbooks and other teaching materials, both in primary and secondary schools. For us in the Centre Party, it is important that the provision should be flexible, in the sense that judgement should and can be exercised. It shall include, inter alia: take into account the age of students and take into account opportunities for company visits and cooperation agreements. These should not be affected, nor should the Internet be used or the use of magazines, etc. used in teaching. This guide to be developed is important, and it is important for us to have uniform legislative practices. It is important to stress that while the proposal is designed to ensure that students of different ages are protected against commercial pressure, it is good that the legislative proposal is not so categorical as to prevent reasonable and discretionary practice, while at the same time allowing for the use of a wide range of teaching materials. Not least, we are concerned about contact and cooperation with the business community. The latter is particularly important at a time when entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial training in schools are becoming increasingly important. Entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial training depend on close and good cooperation with business. The advertising ban shall not delineate this cooperation based on the needs of students for training and teaching in entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial training. The discussion about the prerequisites for using PCs at school is important, and many of the speakers today have come up with it. I would like to comment on the discussion of linguistic parallelism between new Norwegian and book goals in the development of new learning material for PC use. The parallelism between nynorrhea and book goals is a requirement in printed learning material, and for us in the Center Party, it is obvious that this parallelity requirement must also apply when developing new learning material for use on PCs and other electronic media to be used in school. This must be followed up by the development of all new learning material irrespective of who develops the material — whether it is professional educational media actors or county councils that do this job in parallel with the use of computers in secondary school to replace printed media.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1512	And then the air was back in the balloon! I cannot avoid commenting on Anundsen's comment to me. It is strange that free schoolbooks have suddenly become so important to the Advance Party. It's never been before. The party that supported the Bondevik government was involved in the removal of the scheme. If the Progress Party were so concerned with free printed and digital learning material, it should have been part of the negotiating basis in three out of four state budgets. The representative, Eriksen Soreide, showed that my story was wrong. I may have formulated myself a little unclear, but Trond Giske was at the head of a step-up plan for free learning material, and this led to many students – including myself – getting a good deal of free books. What is the main point is that the Bondevik government has removed the scheme. The 700 million. kr, to which the representative Eriksen Soreide referred, was a need-tested scholarship. Our principle is that no one should be holding a hat in their hands. That is why we are introducing free learning material for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1521	I am very pleased that a broad majority is behind the legal regulation of advertising in school, and that both the Left and the Christian People's Party join the government's proposals. When the representative from the Right takes receipt of his view of what the Children's Ombudsman said in the hearing, I cannot get this to vote, because the Children's Ombudsman supported the legislation proposed by the Government. But both the Children’s Ombudsman and the Student Organisation were sceptical and wanted even stricter regulation because they thought that kids were under so much commercial pressure that you have to have a clear and tight law. In the case of school books and also free teaching materials in higher education, I am very surprised by both the attack by both the Right Party and the Advance Party on the Government. This is a good and a very happy case for all students in Norway. In addition to the fact that the county council has been charged with free learning material, all students – absolutely all – receive a grant of up to NOK 2600 to cover equipment. This is very new. I will briefly come to our reasoning that we do not go into the proposals proposed by the minority. In the case of occupational diseases, this is not included. The majority asks the Government to consider whether this scheme should be extended. This has not been the subject of consultations. Nor was it the subject of discussion at NOU 2004:3 as the Vocational Injury Committee presented. There has also been no broad debate on occupational diseases. Including occupational diseases can lead to many complex and difficult issues. But we are asking, as the government said, to see if this is necessary in the future. Then go to the vocational training course. We do not support the proposal from the minority here today. Based on the amendment of the law that the Government is now applying, you don't need it. Now it will be that the county council will have ‘hands on the steering wheel’ in the case of vocational training subjects. The county municipality will be the secretariat of the vocational training student, and the county municipality will also have responsibility transferred to apprentices, which will be very important. We don't need to give a reporting ban at all, because with this change in law, it means that the county council and the elected representatives will be involved and will be involved in managing the vocational education and training programme in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1536	I seem to record some wear in the hall, so I will be as short as possible. When the representative Anna Ljunggren asks why the Progress Party has been so occupied with free learning material, I think it is right to answer that question. I do not know how policies are developed in the Workers' Party, but in the Progress Party there are at least processes leading to national meetings decisions leading to programmes lasting four years. The Progress Party has had this as its established policy throughout this large-scale period and adopted it in its 2004 party programme. Instead of being upset that the Progress Party is concerned that students should receive free school material, the representative Ljunggren, on the contrary, should be very pleased that there are more people who want students in high school to receive free school material. Now it is right that the Progress Party will have a faster implementation and a better arrangement than the Workers' Party and the Government want. Maybe that's what annoys the representative Ljunggren. In the end, I just want to say that I am very pleased with what the council said in the reply to the representative Eriksen Soreide, that he wants a continuous assessment of whether it would be right and natural to include also losses due to illness in an insurance scheme. I hope that after such a continuous assessment, we will get this back to Stortinget – if it turns out that it is necessary and natural to include it, as the opposition believes it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1547	It was good to record that there was some air left in us after a long and hard day of debate. I would first like to comment on what the Council said in its reply. I think it's a pretty important follow-up job to do and important to follow closely what development will be like. It is quite obvious that quite a number of students are struggling, not only as a result of internal climate-related plagues, but also with diseases related to school day and school activity. In the case of the representative Lena Jensen, if she had heard what I said, she had also discovered that I did not say at all that the Children's Ombudsman was against a statutory ban on advertising. What I said, and what the Children's Ombudsman said, was that it's not a problem today, precisely because the school owner takes responsibility. At the hearing we were confirmed that there is no problem today. Then it's like, at least from the Right, that we're not principled followers of making a law ban on hypothetical problems in the future. We also create the law when the problem comes up, not in advance until the problem is there. With regard to the representative Anna Ljunggren, it is fun to debate and discuss teaching materials and scholarships. But the truth is, there was no removal of money from the educational system. Our main concern was simply to give priority to the students who came from the worst economics, so that they could cover the expenses of all the school books, instead of borrowing one to two books for all the students regardless of their financial background. It was a first step on the way to introducing free learning material to everyone, but we chose to give priority to those who had the weakest economic background. That's what we were saying. As a result, we re-prioritized money to the students, and not only that, we tripled — almost quadrupled — the effort when it came to learning material. When we left the government force, we had approx. 750 million. kr in the budget of the Loan Fund, which was to be used to support students in ordinary secondary education, both scholarships and expatriates. It's an effort I'm proud of. I am also proud of that effort because we were able to do what many people have talked about, but no one has made it clear, namely to target the efforts against those who needed it the most. That's why we've chosen to prioritize this rather than getting all the students some books, and then some books to borrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1558	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 692]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1574	We are now going to decide on the proposal for a law on the Swedish Social Security Fund. The Financial Committee shall present a unanimous opinion on the legislative proposal itself, with the exception of one area. I'll come back to that. Let me first present the background to the matter. The Social Security Fund was set up as a public fund in 1967. At the time of establishment, the Fund did not clearly distinguish between the Fund as the name of the fund and the Fund as the name of the organisation that managed these funds. Today, the Swedish Social Security Fund is a state capital manager and the activities are regulated by the State Pension Fund Act. In the bill, the government is promoting proposals for a new law on the Swedish Social Security Fund. The proposal brings the formal framework for the management of the State pension fund — Norway in line with the practices that have developed, so that the Swedish Social Security Fund is, through its own law, given the status of an independent legal entity. The new framework represents a clearing-up of legislation that will also make the distinction between the wealth of the State pension fund – Norway and the Folketry Fund that manages this wealth. The main principles of today's organisation of the Swedish Social Security Fund are passed on by law. Changes in the activities of the Swedish Social Security Fund and the management of the State pension fund – Norway are not foreseen. However, in order to legislate on the basic governance principles of the Social Security Fund, the need for some changes has been identified and to complement and clarify the existing legislation to some extent. So to the area where the Financial Committee has not reached agreement in the bill. It concerns the relationship with the National Audit Office, and then the revision of the National Audit Board and new practice for this audit. The Government, which has also received the support of the majority of the Committee on Finance, proposes that the Ministry of Finance should appoint an external auditor to carry out the accounting audit of the Folketrøgdfondet and the management of the Staten pension fund – Norway. Thus, according to the opinion of the Government and the majority, the functions of the National Audit Office will include the control of the management of the State's interests in the company, i.e. company control, and the verification that the decisions and assumptions of the Storting are fulfilled, i.e. administrative audit, cf. Section 14 of the draft law and the National Audit Act. The minority in the Financial Committee, members of the Progress Party, wants the National Audit Board to be the Auditor of the National Audit Board in addition to the tasks of the National Audit Board relating to the control of the management of the State's interests in the company. The Party considers that it is particularly important to take account of the opinions of the Riksrevision. The Riksrevision is the constitutional control body of the Stortinget, and when the Riksrevision believes that a new system, as proposed by the Government, could weaken the control of the Riksrevision and thus of the Stortingen, it will be important that the Storingen take this seriously. As the Progress Party sees it, the Special Law Company cannot automatically be compared with all other special-law companies in the State. The Social Security Fund was set up for a specific purpose. The king appoints the members of the board of the Swedish Social Security Fund. The company is wholly owned by the state, and it will not be applicable to another form of ownership of the company. As a result, the Social Security Fund is in a special position, and thus it is not natural that the audit provisions should be based on the practice chosen for other special-law societies. In addition, a letter from the Editorial Association has also been received before the Committee was delivered, raising questions relating to the application of the Public Health Act to the Swedish Social Security Fund. The majority have indicated, in the form of a comment, that this regulation is to be consulted by interested parties and that the ministry will follow this up in the usual manner. The minority wants the Ministry to inform Stortinget more closely about its position on these issues in relation to the 2008 government budget before the Ministry lays down a new regulation. Then I would like to draw attention to a correction in relation to the position regarding the comments related to the Editorial Association letter of 29 May 2007 to the Committee: The party of progress should have been in the vote on the same comments as the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. This was announced when the Financial Committee gave its opinion, but it has not been included in the printed statement. Finally, I would like to address the proposals made by the Progress Party in the position of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1600	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1603	As usual, the case rapporteur, Ulf Leirstein, has presented the matter in a very thorough manner, in which an overall committee agrees that the Swedish Social Security Fund should be set up as a special law company, in line with the Government's proposal. Then we see at the same time that there is a distinction between the Progress Party and the rest of the Committee in view of the central issue of whether the Riksrevision or the external auditor should conduct the audit of the Special Law Company. The majority, all except the Advance Party, concludes with the Government's proposal that it be an external auditor. In addition, as referred to, there are shades in the comments of the majority and the opposition consisting of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party in terms of the Publicity Act and the Commandment. The minority will be briefed on the position of the Ministry on these issues in the 2008 budget before establishing new regulations. On the part of the majority, we state that there should still be a high level of transparency in the management of the State Pension Fund – Norway and the activities of the Folketrey Fund. The majority assume that under the Law of 19 May 2006, the announced regulation of the Ministry of Justice. 16 shall be consulted widely and dealt with in the ministry as a whole. The government’s promotion in this proposition will result in the formal framework for the management of the State pension fund – Norway being brought into line with the practices that have developed. This means that through its own law, the Swedish Social Security Fund is given the status of an independent legal entity. The Public Social Security Fund shall be established as a special legal entity. It will, in the view of the majority, make the distinction between the Folketing Fund as a capital management organisation and the capital well visible, i.e. State pension fund – Norway, managed by the organisation. The Ministry of Finance shall appoint the external auditor to carry out the accounting audit of the Folketrøgdfondet and the management of the Staten pension fund – Norway. So it's like this, and I would like to make it clear that the National Audit Office's tasks are to control the management of the state's interests in the company, i.e. control of companies and verification of compliance with the decisions and conditions of the Storting by way of administrative audit. I think the Minister of Finance's justification for the proposal is good, and the Council of State has written to various addressees here in the United Kingdom further explaining the reasons. As I see it, we get a clean and orderly sharing of responsibilities between the Ministry of Finance, the Swedish Social Security Fund and the National Audit Office. As the owner of the Special Law Company, the Swedish Social Security Fund, it is natural that the Ministry appoints the statutory auditor and approves the accounts. Then, in my opinion, we are at the heart of the matter: it is the National Audit Office that follows up and controls the Ministry of Finance that manages and owns the State Pension Fund – Norway and the Swedish Social Security Fund. Then I register the enquiries that have come from the National Audit Office, and the assessments they have made in relation to the department's assessment or handling of the case. Under Section 13 of the draft law, the Ministry may provide for revision. The National Audit Office, as I have previously explained, will have an important role to play in the Ministry of Finance and the Swedish Social Security Fund’s management of the State Pension Fund – Norway. I think it is neat and appropriate that the Riksrevision should be duly involved in defining any clarifications relating to the revision of such a regulation, as the Council of State has also clarified in writing to the Committee. Such a regulation, as underlined by the Council of State, could address the need to specify the audit mission and the criteria further. With this we have, in my opinion, done a cleanup of the legislation that was both necessary and actually also bringing this into the pact with what I think it should be like in relation to the State pension fund – Norway and the Folketrogen Foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1640	Just a few brief comments. Let me first begin by commending the case rapporteur for many good remarks. We see that transparency in government is something a total expansion thinks is fundamental, which we want to be at best able to support below. Because, when the Swedish Social Security Fund is set up as a special-law company, the various issues relating to the application of the Public Health Act arise in relation to the company. When the Editorial Association in letters to the Financial Committee strongly argues for more transparency, it is worth listening. I am of course aware that the Government has a separate responsibility – and sole responsibility – to design regulations. However, the letter from the Editorial Association raises important questions of principle for which the Storting must be given the opportunity to decide and lay any lead. An overall opposition therefore sees it as a matter of course that the Ministry briefs the Stortinget on its position on these issues in the context of the 2008 government budget before the Ministry lays down a new regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1647	Just a few brief comments on the new law on the Swedish Social Security Fund. The Social Security Fund, through its own law, is now given the status of a maritime legal entity, and the new framework represents a clearing-up of the legislation that will also make the distinction between the wealth State pension fund – Norway and the Folketret fund that manages this wealth. The centre party is satisfied that one gets such a clean-up. The relation to the Public Relations Act is a theme in the setting. The Public Health Act does not apply today. The Ministry of Justice is working on draft regulations to be consulted and the issue of public rights and the Public Health Act is to be assessed in this context. The view of the centre party is that maximum transparency should also apply to this issue, especially because it is a public body that has the common savings money of the Norwegian society and is of considerable public interest. Otherwise, the investment strategy for the Swedish Social Security Fund is to be reviewed in the future, because, in the context of the establishment of the Swedish Social Security Fund as a special-law company, the management of the State pension fund – Norway will have to be modified as of 1 January 2008 in order to re-establish the investment guidelines. The Ministry is currently setting out an investment strategy for the State Pension Fund – Norway in the form of senior placement frameworks, while the more detailed reference portfolio for the measurement of returns and risks is determined by the Board of Directors of the Folketry Fund. The government will return with a reference portfolio and risk liability of administrations in the context of the 2008 national budget. The opinion of the centre party is that particular attention needs to be paid to national strategic ownership of key companies, while taking reasonable account of the fund’s return requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1658	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 697]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1671	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1679	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kenneth Svendsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Proposal No. 2 and 3, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1813	The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1826	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1836	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e1843	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's Proposal No. 1, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 2, from Odd Einar Door on behalf of Right and Left
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e3425	During the debate a correction was made in section 6A-8 on page 38 of the setting. Paragraphs shall have three and not four terms. The decision will be corrected accordingly. The Progress Party has indicated that it will support the proposal from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e3438	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The Progress Party, Right and Left have notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e3452	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e3462	This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e3470	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jon Hunter Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, from Jon Hunter Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, says: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and by the end of 2008, at the latest, to return to Stortinget with a separate case on the future development possibilities, funding and place of vocational education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e3676	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e3686	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e3693	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Amendment No. 3, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4039	The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4133	First, we're going to vote on the second paragraph of Section 12-3. Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Training Act, the second paragraph of Section 12-3 shall be replaced by the following:Members with personal alternates shall have broad insights into the entire professional and professional training and into business and employment issues. Members of the social partners shall be mentioned in all respects on a proposal from the employment organisations and on a proposal from the employers' organisations. The social partners shall have a number in mind. In addition, at least one representative of the elephants, apprentices or apprentices and one representative of the pedagogical staff shall be named on a proposal from organisations or bodies representing them.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4150	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Training Act, Section 12-4 is replaced by the following new sixth paragraph: Vocational training subjects report to the chosen level on their activities and on actions that are important for vocational training.The sixth paragraph becomes the seventh paragraph, etc.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4170	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4177	The proposal from the Progress Party, Right and Left to § 12-4 new sixth paragraph is then with 42 to 32 voices not accepted. The rest of the sections 12 to 3 and 12 to 4 are so votered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4201	Here there is an aberrant proposal, No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In the Training Act, new § 13-3b shall be replaced by:§ 13-3b Obligation on municipalities and county councils to provide for non-life insurance covering accident and diseaseThe municipality and county council shall provide for non-life insurance for students covering both accident and illness. The Ministry may lay down more detailed rules relating to the scope and coverage, etc.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4262	The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4304	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. –
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4307	I wonder if there has been a mistake, because the right has notified us that we should vote against Section 3-1 ninth paragraph, but not the second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4314	Then we take up the voting over the point. Is it only Right to vote against? – It is first voted separately over Section 3-1 ninth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4330	Then we can vote over the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4340	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4348	During the debate, a proposal by Ulf Leirstein was put forward on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4477	In this case, there is an aberrant proposal from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Articles 12 and 13 of the Law on the Swedish Social Security Fund shall be replaced by the following:§ 12. The annual accounts and annual reports are compulsory under the Accounting Act and subject to bookkeeping under the Accounting Act. The Ministry may supplement or derogate from the provisions of the Accounting Act of the Folketrøgdfondet.Annual accounts and annual report shall be sent to the Ministry and communicated to the Stortinget§ 13. The Court of Auditors is the Auditor of the Folketry Fund.The Board shall appoint the Internal Auditor of the Folketry Fund. The Management Board shall each year approve the resources and plans of the internal audit. The internal audit shall report to the Management Board.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4511	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4576	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-07-lower-2.ana.ud1330e4586	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
