ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e37	Representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Karin S. Woldseth, Bjørn Jacobsen and Øyvind Waksdal, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: by Mr Laila Davøy on leave on 8 and 9 October in order to attend meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in the Brussels from Stortinget Delegation to the 117th Conference of the Interparliamentary Union in Geneva, signed by the Head of the Delegation, Mr Finn Martin Vallersnes. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Per Roar Bredvold, Ingrid Heggø, Espen Johnsen, Torny Pedersen and Finn Martin Vallersnes from 8 October to 10 October from the Central Party Group on the Permit of the Representative of Erling Sande from 8 October to 11 October to take part in the mission of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly to Kyrgyzstan, These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Sogn and Fjordane counties, Cecilie Thaule Løvlid, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting the Stortinge under the authority of the representative Ingrid Heggø. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the leave period of Hedmark County: Lars Joakim HanssenFor Hordaland County: Knut Arild HareideFor Nordland County: Knut Petter TorgersenFor Uppland County: Synnøve Fire KlemetrudFor Rogaland County: Siri A. Meling For Sogn and Fjordane County: Knut Magnus Olsen and Tord Dale2. Lars Joakim Hanssen, Synnøve Brenden Klemetrud and Siri A. Meling are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Espen Johnsen and Finn Martin Vallersnes respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e128	Lars Joakim Hanssen, Knut Arild Hareide, Knut Petter Torgersen, Synnove Fire Klemetrud, Siri A. Meling, Knut Magnus Olsen and Tord Dale are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e134	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Stortinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e154	The most important issue for the Left is the environmental and climate challenges we face. An important part of this is the extent to which chemicals are exposed to humans, animals, nature and the environment. We're increasingly surrounded by chemicals. It's almost impossible to imagine a reality without the use of chemicals. We breathe it in, it's on the skin, we're working on it, and a lot of this has potentially harmful effects. Chemicals are largely linked to production and consumption patterns in society. The handling of chemicals affects all people, both in daily life and at work. I am going to drop long and difficult chemical names, but mention that the State pollution control authority assumes that in Norway there are 8 000 to 10 000 chemical substances in about 10 000. 50000 products. It has been estimated that approx. 800 people die every year as a result of chemicals in the workplace. This figure is far too low, according to the National Association of the Working Environment. Five years ago, the Riksrevision claimed that there are 1,300 such deaths every year. The National Audit Office was also based on data provided by the Labour Inspectorate. The Riksrevisions report, submitted to the Stortinget on 28 June 2002, concluded that there were 1,300 deaths, 1,600 hospitalisations, 6,850 social security cases and 1,2 million. days of absence per month. years due to exposure to chemicals and other health-threatening substances in life. This contrasts with the Labour Inspectorate's report. Here, the Left would like to have the Council of State report on what is the correct estimate. The left is aware that there are difficulties in diagnosing health damage related to chemicals, as causality may be unclear. This is because new products are entering the market and research is depending on the investigation of health damage. We've had a number of things in the last few years. It's enough to mention mercury vapour and dental oysters and cancer risks at different laboratories in the university environments of Trondheim, Bergen and Oslo. In addition, we have the health damage that oil workers and North Sea divers have suffered. Agriculture has major emissions problems, we have insecticides, various sprays, etc. Labour inspectorate needs to make greater use of the sanctions available to them against companies that violate the Working Environment Act. It is unclear to me what is the reason why the penalty options are so little used. If this is due to insufficient resources, we must enable all relevant supervision to address these challenges. Employers who break the Working Environment Act must react in the form of fines or police reports, in line with other offences. Other countries have a practice of widespread prosecution for health damage in this field, and it has done something about the culture of emissions and management. If you were more likely to be at risk of financial loss, maybe you'd get better. There is reason to believe that health damage related to chemicals will only increase all the time we are getting more and more products containing more new chemicals, many of which have not been adequately tested. There is reason to believe that many people would act differently if they knew how dangerous a lot of chemicals are. This is a challenge in sectors where knowledge of links between health damage and the environment is not a priority. This challenge will also increase in industries with a high level of foreign labour, due to language problems. Enterprises using a lot of foreign labour should therefore give greater priority to translations in order to ensure that people actually understand what kind of drugs they are dealing with. Chemicals and health damage are also about culture in the individual workplace. Many of these workplaces have what can be called a macho culture, and protective equipment is something that is for some. Even I grew up on the farm and in a culture where one learns that, for example. The use of sprays was not necessarily so dangerous, but where we were informed that this was definitely not something we should play with. In recent years, agriculture has been a leader in this area in many ways, by having a certificate of injection and by moving on. It shows that something can be done. Protective equipment was not necessarily at the top of the list when work was to be done. This because it was often impractical, maybe the protective equipment was forgotten somewhere else, and it would take too long to pick it up. It wasn't that dangerous. This, of course, also because many people didn't know better. Such issues face all those dealing with hazardous chemicals. So maybe the question we have to ask, what to do in order for the use of equipment and the handling of chemicals to be done correctly at your workplace. Therefore, individual vocational education and training needs to focus more on protective equipment and perhaps use those who have experience in practical work to a greater extent. It doesn't help to have the best law in the world if it's not followed. Therefore, it is essential to focus on the culture and awareness of the individual worker in order to bring this to life. Knowledge at all stages is also important in order to be able to do something significant here. At the same time, I have to say that in Norway we have a unique belief that if we can cross a routine list, everything will be better. The left hopes that the Council of State will focus on a simpler and more comprehensible regulatory framework. Many look at the form field that exists and give up. One thing is the individual's health damage, but we can also say something about how some people handle hazardous waste in general. Many demand how they can make better efforts on a daily basis for the environment, and this is part of that debate. Despite the fact that we in the Left are technology optimists, I don't think we're getting away from chemicals and also the use of dangerous chemicals in the future. That's why it has a lot to say about how we handle this in everyday life and in the individual workplace. The Left will encourage the Government to cooperate more closely with the EU in this area, and be a driver for an overview of health damage related to the different products and chemicals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e186	Let me start by saying that it's an important interpellation the representative of Skelstad is taking up, because this is an important area even though we often see that it doesn't have much attention in everyday life, both in the political arena and in the media context. I think this is because many believe that a good Norwegian working environment also works well when it comes to protecting workers from chemical exposure. There is no doubt that the situation in Norwegian working life is better than it has been. Things go in the right direction, but at the same time, as André N. Skelstad picks up, there's every reason to be concerned that things haven't gone any faster. Only to use some figures to illustrate it, it is considered that between 5000 and 10000 people today have the diagnosis of occupational asthma or coal, and a significant number of workers are diagnosed with occupational cancer every year. The representative asked me to make the most of it. The best I can get here and now is the Labour Inspectorate's estimate that more than 500 people die every year as a result of occupational cancer, coal and asthma. Then we can discuss whether it's too low a number or whether it should be higher, but whether it's too low a number, it's a significant amount when 500 years of life are lost as a result of job-related damage. So I think it's very important to base some important premises on how we're going to discuss the work of making this work better than we've done so far. It is important for me to stress that it is the responsibility of employers and businesses to ensure both that they are able to regulate and have systems at the workplace where they are running and that they have risk management on what they are doing, that they have insight into the chemicals they are using, and that they provide workers with the protective equipment they need. It is very important that we make it very clear in all respects that the Labour Environment Act is quite clear in pointing out the obligations and requirements imposed on employers in this way. It must then be the task of the supervisory authorities to monitor precisely whether employers fulfil their obligations and to contribute to the systematic functioning of the HMS. For I believe that we will always have a debate on whether the financial framework of the Labour Inspectorate is adequate and whether the framework of the Petroleum Supervision is adequate. But even though we had used many, many times more for oversight than both I and the representative of Skkelstad have ever suggested, we would depend on companies taking responsibility for this. To have supervision so extensive that each enterprise is visited several times a year is not possible. So we have to systematize the HMS work in such a way that the companies take responsibility for this. Therefore, the task of the Labour Inspectorate will very often be to train companies in risk management, in an analysis to ensure that HMS is kept on the agenda at all times, whether it is chemical exposure or other important things. The Labour Inspectorate supervises. During the period 2003–2006, a comprehensive chemical campaign was carried out in vulnerable industries. Then it was completed approx. 2 100 inspections in car workshops, in the workshop industry and mechanical engineering, in glass fibre-related enterprises – what is called the GUP industry – as well as in the graphic industry. All of these are industries that use chemical substances to a large extent. The results are relatively discouraging. About 75 pst. the establishments have not carried out a risk assessment or developed action plans. Over 50 pst. lack of exposure measurements and have no knowledge of the type or amount of contamination at work. In one of three cases, workers have not been trained in how to protect themselves against chemicals. When we carry out supervision, we reveal relatively negative findings. Petroleum monitoring has also carried out extensive assessments of the offshore situation. There too, the picture is discouraging, in the sense that important parts of the industry are considered to be lacking a comprehensive risk picture in both the current situation and historical conditions. Overall, it shows that there is a basis for this interpellation and to establish that we still have a job to do. So what do we do? Let me point to some important things. In June this year I had a meeting with the parties in the petroleum industry. During this meeting, the Land Association of the Oil Industry, the OLF, assumed responsibility for managing the follow-up work by the industry. The petroleum industry has now presented an action plan for the investigation of chemical health hazards in the oil industry. That plan is good, but not good enough. That is why I want to follow up on the OLAF preliminary recording by asking the oil industry for a more concrete follow-up plan by mid-January. The authorities will follow the matter closely through strategic supervisory activities. Then it is important to point to the Labour Inspectorate, who will strengthen the efforts in the field of chemistry. The number of inspections of chemical work environments shall be increased. Not least, we will look at industries with a high risk of carbon and industries using particularly dangerous chemicals. The systematic work of the HMS in the establishments needs to be improved. We are therefore taking action to better understand the use of chemicals in the labour market. In this context, let me refer to the STAMI chemical exposure database, EXPO, which has been operating since 1984 and which contains over 10,000 exposure measurements from over 5000 Norwegian establishments. That base is good in many ways, but it can get even better. I have therefore set up a working group of the Labour Inspectorate, the Petroleum Inspectorate and the STAMI to explore the possibilities of improving the knowledge base on chemical exposure in the workplace. It is positive that the action plan of the oil industry in the chemical field has already taken into account the need to establish a common exposure register compatible with EXPO. So said representative Skkelstad himself, the EU and chemicals legislation REACH, which we believe could also be an important contribution to the protection of health and the environment in Norway. Therefore, we aim to include REACH in the EEA Agreement. Summarized in this short time in a large and important area, I would say that our main road forward will be to improve the knowledge base, to make demands on businesses – not least on the oil industry – and to follow up these requirements through enhanced supervision both in the Petroleum Control and in the Labour Inspectorate. At the same time, I want to make it clear that the authorities can advise, supervise, detect, impose and stop, but it is the employers who are responsible for the working environment of employees. It must be borne in mind that the working environment in which they work still makes too many people sick, and employers also have to take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e207	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The left is involved in prevention. Much of the debate on causality in chemical use is about avoiding many of the issues related to health damage if we had been more concerned with prevention. Some of those involved in this area are the National Association of the Working Environment Damaged. In addition, professional organisations and various employee organisations have focused on the subject. Many of those involved are deeply concerned that such health risks are not sufficiently addressed. There is a need to examine the lack of competence of decision-makers in order to avoid suspicions of work-related diseases and to ensure that patients are not properly investigated. This leads to under-reporting to NAV and the Labour Inspectorate and to reduced legal certainty for those injured at work. Now I intend to quote from the Labour Inspectorate's own pages: «Chemical health hazard is a serious problem in working life. It has been designated as a bet area, both in Norway and in the EU. The background for this is, among other things, that between 5 and 10 000 people are diagnosed with occupational asthma or COPD at any time. About 420 people die of their disease every year.Annually, about 300 people die of cancer as a result of the work environment 200,000 workers are in daily contact with solvents.Previous experience has shown that surveys conducted in the EU often coincide with Norwegian conditions. EU figures are therefore also interesting for us:21% of workers are exposed to carcinogens22% of workers claim to inhale smoke, vapours, dust and other hazardous chemicals in more than a quarter of their working hours16% treat or are in contact with dangerous chemicals in more than a quarter of their working hours Chemicals are a necessary part of a wide range of processes and occur in all parts of their working life. Substances purchased may be completed or developed during work, for example in the form of welds and diesel exhaust. The campaign will focus on some industries where chemicals occur frequently: Auto repair shopsMechanical industryWorkshop industryArmert hard plastics industry Graphic industryThese industries comprise a total of more than 10,000 enterprises and 110,000 workers.» [[casting of plastic boats, glass fibre tanks, etc.]] This was taken from a 2003 campaign to continue through 2004. In addition, there are a number of university environments, defence and agriculture, to name a few. Then it is a little strange that the focus in occupational medicine is so strong on stress damage versus chemicals. This at the same time as studies carried out by the Labour Inspectorate during the period 2003-2006 indicate that there has been a deterioration in chemical exposure and that one in three employees does not receive training in the proper use of chemicals. The left wants to know what the government is doing to bring this to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e252	Let me first start by saying that it is in itself tidy by the representative of Skkelstad to quote from the Web pages of the Labour Inspectorate, for what appears there, just shows that the authorities take this seriously. If you go to the Agency’s websites and read about chemical exposure, you will find significant information about both its challenges and its activities. It is therefore wrong to claim that the supervisory authorities do not take it seriously. It has now been documented by the representative of Skkelstad by quoting from his own websites, as an argument that this is important. So I say that the supervisory activity should be increased, both by the Petroleum Authority and by the Labour Inspectorate. We also have a basis for this, because in recent times we have strengthened the budgets of both the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate. With regard to the Labour Inspectorate, there has been a lot of focus on social dumping, but not just that. So there's a connection between claiming that there's going to be an increase in supervisory activity, and that we're giving business budgets so that they can increase supervisory activity somewhat. Once again, I stress that it is not possible to ‘supervise’ away from an unprofessional working life. If we don't want to create attitudes in the workplace for seriousity, both on the employee's side and on the employer's side, we can't build good enough supervision to prevent anyone from getting hurt. It is therefore important that we jointly stress the more sunny responsibilities of employers to ensure that the working environment is not harmful to health and, of course, the obligation of workers to use the protective equipment prescribed when the employer points out the need for the use of protective equipment. We must therefore make some clear demands on serious work. Finally, we know that some people are still getting sick. That's why it's important that we have good medical environments, both at the hospital, in the primary health service and in the second line service, in order to help the people who get sick. I think the representative of Skkelstad is right that this is demanding, because often it is diffuse cause and effect. The Minister of Health is probably more suitable to answer this than I am. But we've been involved in the professional medical departments at regional level, and we focus on strengthening them, so that those who have become ill can get better help than they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e263	It is an important topic for the representative, Mr Skkelstad, to put on the agenda today with his interpellation. We have about 100,000 chemical products in the trade today. The use of chemical products is greatly increased and it is essential that these products are properly managed. The results of the Labour Inspectorate's actions and campaigns, to which reference has been made here by the inter-pellant and the Council of State, show that there are quite positive conditions in the labour market. In too many companies, chemicals are handled in violation of the law, and too many workers are exposed to chemicals without having been trained in terms of risk and how to avoid harm. We have quite good legislation on the labelling and use of chemicals, but compliance with the legislation is not good enough. The responsibility rests on each holding. The first thing to do is to examine whether it is actually necessary to use dangerous chemicals or whether non-hazardous substitutes can be used. Where chemicals have to be used, they must be handled properly. Information on health hazards and how to avoid them shall be available. The employer shall implement necessary measures such as suction, integration of processes, etc. When done, personal protective equipment shall be provided. This equipment must be adapted to the individual and must be designed to be used in addition to, of course, an obligation for the worker to use the equipment. The representative of Skelstad says in his interpellation: «Faithful are some workplaces characterised by a working culture which takes too little account of the health risks associated with the substances handled.» If Skelstad here replaces the term ‘work culture’ with ‘employer’, I agree with the assumption. It is indisputable that it is the responsibility of the employer to ensure that chemicals are handled correctly in the company. When we as politicians are going to approach the issue, it's more about right and duty than about culture. From my point of view, I would like to highlight the importance of protective agents who have good training and adequate authority. If necessary, the Protection Ombudsman must use his statutory right to stop work when he or she considers that there is a risk to life and health. In my opinion, there is reason to fear when chemical products are not labelled or when there is no evidence in the form of product data sheets. It is also important that employers are aware of their responsibilities and provide themselves with the same training as the Protection Ombudsman. In my former role as regional protection officer for the construction subjects in Hordaland, I arranged a series of protection ombudsmen courses. Fortunately, I experienced that on every course there were employers who participated. The standard of the working environment of the enterprises from which these employers came was significantly better after the employer had acquired the necessary knowledge, and many of these summarized the course that this should be mandatory for all employers. The occupational health service also has an important function. It shall be the main tools of the companies in the prevention process. Businesses must then ensure that they are connected to an occupational health service that has the necessary competence and quality. Unfortunately, too many rates of an annual health check and as much as possible beyond that, are still the cheapest. The Labour Inspectorate has long prioritised this problem, and that is good. It is also important and absolutely necessary for professional organisations to make an effort in this area. When we know that, year after year, the Agency’s chemical campaigns reveal major deficiencies in the management of hazardous chemicals by companies, we should also ask questions about whether the Agency has at its disposal the right responses and whether they use the means at their disposal. Is it possible that the Labour Inspectorate should stop work in more cases than they do? Is it necessary to provide the Labour Inspectorate with the possibility to impose an infringement fee on businesses when there is a breach of the Labour Environment Act? I think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e287	There is little doubt that the interpellant takes up a big and important question, which I believe there is a cross-political consensus in this Chamber that one must have a serious look at. Of course, it is worrying that 200,000 workers each day are in a situation where they are in contact with chemicals. The Council of State itself stated that 500 people lost their lives each year because of occupational injuries. The interpellant showed in its statement that nearly 800 people die from chemicals every year. What might be the big challenge, and where I think we should be a little focused, is looking back at history. We are aware of the debate that has taken place in the media, among other things. in the case of dental assistants and this with mercury. At the time they were doing this, it was almost a general opinion that this was not harmful. And then you get a good lot of years afterwards a debate about whether it was dangerous at all. Then you start with some research and some investigation, and the learners argue about whether it's dangerous or not. At least we don't have to stand in such a way that we get into a situation where the people concerned have to go to court and fight a long fight in the judicial system in order to be believed in relation to the damage that has been done to chemicals. Therefore, significant research efforts are also required. We need to know at an early stage what is dangerous, what are the chemicals that are dangerous, what are the consequences of these chemicals, what protective equipment to use and how to protect yourself from being affected by these chemicals. There is also another group that has been widely mentioned in the media. This concerns the offshore business, where we know that someone has been exposed to chemical exposures that have caused them to have both visible and large odorous wounds, which make some spouses, according to the media, actually do not want to lie with their spouse. This is a relatively serious situation. We can't get there that one has to fight a long fight to be believed as to whether one has been exposed to chemical exposure or not. That's why I'm very happy, as the Council of State said, that it's doing a lot in this area. If I didn't see him wrong, he said things go in the right direction, but it doesn't go fast enough. I hope that through a cross-political collapse, with the government council at the head, we can keep speed up, that we go faster, that we get more knowledge in this area, and not least that we have a more targeted tool to avoid people being unnecessarily damaged by chemicals. At least I want that work to be welcomed, and I am happy to follow the measures to which the Council of State refers. I am also pleased to see the necessary effects of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e296	The extent of occupational injury based on chemical exposure is high, confirming both interpellant and state councils. It's a serious problem, and it's a bit of an unexpected problem, because the effect of this kind of influence often comes in the future. What is safe and what is sufficient to control toxic substances is always a question. The main point must be whether we choose a leading product strategy, or whether we only go for experience-based research as a guide, which will always come in retrospect and unfortunately often after the damage has happened, because of course research must be based on something that has happened. Of course, it can also be researched on substances and their effects in other ways, but it is difficult to say something about how this works in practice, just like what has been said here before about the dental assistants and the situation they have come into, where the risk of mercury was known, but where it has not been recognised how dangerous that type of exposure was, and that it has clearly caused damage. The number of chemicals labelled ‘very dangerous’ in Norway has remained stable from 2000 to 2005, while substances labelled ‘toxic’ are approximately halved at the same time. The number of products labelled ‘harmful’ is approximately 60 pst. higher in 2005 than in 2000, but the volume is not so high. And then you can think about what's the difference between these markings, and that's probably what a lot of people do. This is very complicated, it requires great factual knowledge, and therefore the exercise of authority is very important. I would like to quote from a booklet that has been given to all the big business representatives, entitled ‘Fact Book on Working Environment and Health 2007’, which reads: «Since the end of the 1970s, the Labour Inspectorate has established administrative standards for pollution in the working atmosphere. The standards are based on technical, economic and medical considerations. Even if standards are respected, it is not ensured that health damage and discomfort cannot occur.’ Nor are the standards binding without regulations, as there is something about the uncertainty in this. In my opinion, the EU chemical reform, REACH, which was the subject of the Council of State, raises the issue of chemical safety for consumers and workers in a much more difficult situation. It's part of what's good, but it's also part of what's worrying. Norway did not get through to the input made to the EU by environmental authorities before the decision of the new regime. Carcinogenic and endocrine disrupting substances can still be authorised, if safe alternatives are available, manufacturers are not given care, the legislation covers only 30 000 of the 100000 substances present in the EEA market, because less than one tonne is not required to be registered and testing can be worse than at present. A massive pressure from the industry has worked. Here in Stortinget, everyone now agrees that this is important. But when we implement the legislation, do we manage to get it in place so that it doesn't get worse? Many workers are exposed every day. Nevertheless, parts of this legislation impose weaker requirements for both testing and exposure. This will make major demands on governments and businesses in the future if we are to reduce chemical damage, because people get hurt – we know – sail if we don't always know what or how much. The requirements of the Working Environment Act for a sound working environment must weigh more heavily. How REACH is to be implemented is therefore important, and I think we have to stick to what the Council of State called risk management. It must be correct for Norwegian authorities to go ahead and maintain a higher level of ambition, as recorded by Norway during the consultation round. A clear commitment to switching a dangerous substance to a less dangerous substance, that is, what is called substitution, will ensure both a better working environment and safer products, but also contribute to innovation and necessary industrial conversion. Finally, like the previous speakers, I would also like to say that there is reason to ask questions as to whether the sanctions imposed by the Labour Inspectorate on these matters are strong enough, when investigation shows that the condition improves – that is correct – but not if it improves quickly enough, so that we can reduce the unacceptable number of injuries and deaths we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e320	I thank you for the opportunity that the representative of Skkelstad has given us, to discuss how we should achieve an even better handling of chemicals in Norwegian workplaces, and an even more consciously lead a good attitude in the HMS work. Although the design of the psychosocial work environment is the area within the HMS which, with a higher focus, is most likely to reduce occupational sick leave, there is no need to relax in the more traditional work to prevent exposure to harmful chemicals. According to State pollution monitoring, significant reductions in emissions of registered known chemicals have occurred in recent years. It concerns society in general, and then there is a reasonable reason to assume that working life is included in that statistics. However, new problems are still being identified. First of all, we see a general increase in the use of chemicals, and chemicals are increasingly being used in new types of products. For the vast majority of industries, the number of products containing chemicals that are grouped as toxic or harmful is now higher than 10 years ago. This means that there is no reason either for the Council of State, the Labour Inspectorate or the Petroleum Inspectorate to relax. Although procedures for the handling of chemicals have been in place for a long time, and although monitoring has been taking place for a long time, new challenges remain to be met. An important contribution from the Council of State and the Government to enable working life to meet this challenge is to ensure that supervision prioritises knowledge development and follow-up sufficiently, and also provides financial resources for supervision to implement such a commitment. This interpellence is addressed by the chemical challenges in the workplace in general. However, I would like to take this opportunity to re-examine work on the detection and prevention of chemical damage in the offshore industry. It will probably not come as a surprise to the Council of State that it will be a topic today. Early in June this year, the Petroleum Authority published a report on chemical exposure in the oil industry, which concluded that the industry lacked an overall risk picture of this, both in the past and in the present. This was lacking despite the high level of professional competence in industry and despite the continuous implementation of the var-strategy. In particular, there was a lack of evidence of exposure and health risk. Measurements of relatively few working processes were carried out according to supervision and, in many cases, measurements were not followed up by qualified assessments. The review concluded its report with the expectation that industry actors established a common and committed strategy for further work on the chemical work environment. Since then, the State Council has met with both the Petroleum Authority and the industry to hear how this should be followed up. That is why, in conclusion, I will challenge the Council of State: Is he after this meeting secure that the entire industry is involved in this cooperation with the Petroleum Authority in a proper way? Is he confident that the work on documentation will be intensified, that chemical exposure will be measured for several work processes, and that measurements carried out in the past that are currently being carried out are now followed up by qualified occupational health assessments? There are still many people with a past in the industry who are struggling with health problems after exposure in the past and who both want and deserve great political focus and pressure on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e333	Recently, a thought-provoking TV show went on – that's what it does. It was about PCBs – first the adventurous success that opened up a sea of opportunities to develop new, good products in a cheaper way, then the disaster when you realized what it was about, both for the environment and for the people who were exposed to the product. This was the story of a product that was developed, which we used, and which we were happy for all of us. The question is: how many potential stories are there in the 8 000–10000 substances in the 50 000–100000 products that I have heard today in the workplace, in private households, etc.? How many stories are we going to hear about that we've been around with health-damaging chemicals? It's obvious that we're going to hear such stories in the future as well. There's a drama in this that makes it worth traveling an interpellation about the matter here in the Storting, and that makes it worth having a reflected discussion about how we could be leading was. Research is mentioned. Research in this context is absolutely necessary, but represents two alternatives. One is research into damage caused by the products we surround ourselves with. The second is research to develop new products that we're going to surround ourselves with, and that we're not sure how we're going to work in practice. It's probably important in this context that the public engages strongly in the first piece, that is, research into getting knowledge about what we're dealing with. At the same time, I would like to stress, as others have done here before, that those who use chemicals must be placed directly under responsibility when it turns out that you have not been sure what you expose your employees to, or what kind of products you actually produce. Both the inter-pellant and the state councils were involved in the work being done in the EU. It is good that the EU does a job here, says EU opponent Dagfinn Sundsbø. It is good that the EU is committed to this. But we also know that the REACH process is not a unique process towards the precautionary principle. It is a compromise in which the leading commodity thinking has fought against commercial considerations. Then it is important that we have a state here at home that goes into this work with the aim that the goods principle should apply to us, and that we not only implement the EU Chemicals Directive in Norwegian legislation and say that now everything is good. I assume that the Council of State will also take into account that the precautionary principle will apply here, even if it does not apply in full to others. We know that there has been a debate on REACH which in no way means that everyone has been represented – whether in Europe or here – in the process that has been so far. We will certainly come back to this, but the important thing is that we have a high level of ambition on behalf of all those who have so far avoided being exposed to chemicals, so that they will also avoid it in the future. We have a story that has taught us quite a lot about which traps we can go in, and that we have to make sure that at least we don't go in all of them again.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e346	I would like to focus on delays resulting from mercury exposure among dental secretaries, who have so far been mentioned before in this debate. For more than 15 years, dental ministers have fought to be believed that they had become mercury poisoning. Today, more than two years have passed since the NRK programme "Fire Point" showed that dental ministers have been exposed to significant mercury exposure because they work with amalgam. A result of what appeared in the TV program was that the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion allowed research funding for a research project. The interim report I from this project was held in February of this year, and some conclusions can be found.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘Silver has caused damage to dental health Secretaries, including in the form of reduced memory and concentration. ... – Our findings speak for some dental secretaries have been sensitised because they have been working with mercury.” The final report of the project will be presented, as far as I understand, on 1 November this year, and there is little reason to believe that the link between mercury exposure and health damage is weakened in this final report. The Minister of Labour and Inclusion is well aware of the problem I am dealing with. Among other things, the Council of State wrote an article in the Evening Post on May 7th this year. Otherwise, I think it is right to say that both the Council of State, Mr. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, and the rest of the Government, have been quite absent from these issues, which unfortunately have a long history, especially for those who have suffered from health problems! June 29th this year was St.meld. No 35 on dental care of the future. In the message there is a section on the use of amalgam and the release of mercury vapour. Citation from page 58 of the message: ‘The potential health damage caused by mercury vapour from the heating of this amalgam variety by dental practitioners is now under discussion in Norway. The follow-up is a responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and underlying agencies as a work environment problem.’ Although I have a great deal of respect for Hanssen State Council, I find it strange that the serious health damage this is about is being pushed away from the department responsible for the health care centre in the federal state, the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The disclaimer of responsibility in this matter from the Ministry of Health and Health can, in my view, easily lead to that between all the chairs, namely those who have suffered health damage. Finally, I would like to ask the council to follow up the case and make sure that the dental staff we are talking about here are taken seriously, and that those who have suffered health damage as a result of exposure to mercury are given the dishes they are entitled to. I hope the Council of State can come up with some views on the problem I have raised here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e377	Interpellation André N. Skelstad takes up, is important, both to be able to stop new cases of chemical pollution and not least to correct old sins where there is ignorance of where the damage comes from. I am thinking here in particular of health damage from chemicals related to oil production. Even with legislation and environmental legislation that is among the most stringent in the world, a fast-paced case will arise. One thing is to create a regulatory framework that ensures workers against known hazards. In this area, we have come a long way. One example is painting, where we've had a lot of solvent damage over the years. Today we have protective equipment and venting that takes account of such things. But it's not enough protective equipment. Enterprises and workers must be aware of and take into account the hazards such chemicals can cause. Although there is a risk associated with the treatment of different types of chemicals, it is important that an enterprise and work culture is incorporated which takes into account the hazards to which it is exposed, so that chemicals are treated so as not to present a health hazard. Although we have come a long way in dealing with chemicals in many areas, the most difficult areas where one has no knowledge of how chemical vapours or other chemical contact points are taking place are. The oil industry is a good example of this. Today, we see many health damage that has emerged from the influence of gases and chemicals that you do not know about, nor did you know the danger. It is particularly important that businesses have control and that they keep track of the chemicals to which employees have been exposed for subsequent treatment. Unfortunately, we see that several oil workers have had unexplained diseases after having been exposed to different types of chemicals for several years. What makes the situation even worse for these people who have been exposed to it is that they are not entitled to professional damages – simply because they are unable to prove what these injuries are caused. Yes, it's actually that some people themselves have to pay both medicine and treatment, and that's not acceptable. Much of this is due to lack of journalism, lack of knowledge of chemicals and lack of cooperation between enterprises and state institutes. At the end of the interview, the question is: ‘What will the Council of State do to ensure that Norwegian workplaces better handle chemicals and to a greater extent prevent health damage?’ This is, of course, a very important question, because it prevents workers from getting into a situation where they need professional compensation. But I also think it is important to clarify what the Council of State intends to do with all the unresolved cases that have affected former oil workers who, due to the lack of knowledge and poor record keeping from the companies, do not receive professional damages. We heard examples of this in Eriksson's posts. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State take a closer look at these cases and be involved in dealing with them in the context of history and that in many cases it will be impossible to find the background for the damage? Those who helped lay the foundation for Norway’s wealth should not be forced into the legal system in order to obtain legal help in my view. There must be a special reason why these specific cases of disease affect a special group of workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e396	The supervisory activity is to be increased in both the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Inspectorate, said the Council of State, and I agree with that. As the Council of State also said in its statement, of course we cannot ‘supervise’ ourselves. It is clear that we have a responsibility here as company owners, not least towards the employees. Of course, one has to follow-up with protective equipment and with the necessary adjustments. The representative, Eriksson, was within a significant moment of his contribution. Clearly, there were things in the past that we did not necessarily see the big health problem with. It can be as good an example as etherite – which is a similar example – as one has on very many houses from the 1950s and 1960s, and which were actually used internally in both industrial buildings and poultry. Suddenly we became aware that this contained asbestos, which was very little health-threatening. It's clear that such things are to pass on knowledge. I think that is also some of the aspects that we have today, because in such a debate there is a bit of reflection: what do we do to move forward in this development, also with knowledge, while at the same time being able to maintain a corporate culture and a work culture that makes us care and manage to acquire this over time? Otherwise, I think – it was the representative Sundsbø who mentioned it – that there is a principle that we have to establish in any case. No matter how much time we spend on supervision, we have to have a precautionary principle that has to lie down no matter what we do. What can be so-called healthful or ok today, necessarily doesn't have to be so in the future. Then we can have new knowledge that this is nothing special. Otherwise, of course, such a debate does not bring out the big dividing lines. It's not supposed to do it either. I think this has been a good reflection round, in which we have in many ways taken up, in my view, an important theme, which clearly shows that this is something that we need to focus on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e407	It has been interesting to hear the debate. But we have had at least two debates at the same time. One is the debate that the interpellant has pulled up, that is, what are we going to do to avoid people getting chemical damage in Norwegian working life in the future? Can we do more than we've done? The second debate is: what about those who may be or may be exposed to chemical exposure that has damaged them? In my answer, I took on board what the interpellant asked for, and not what has also come as part of the debate. But I'm going to comment a little bit on the second topic, to answer some questions. First Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund. I said in my post that in June I had a meeting with the parties in the petroleum business. During this meeting, the Land Association of the Oil Industry assumed responsibility for leading the industry’s follow-up work. The petroleum industry has now presented an action plan for the follow-up of chemical health hazards in the oil industry. I want to say that the plan shows that the industry understands the issues and their scope, and it is provisionally used as a basis for the follow-up to this case. At the same time, the action plan is somewhat deficient in terms of the concreteisation of activities, resource needs, commitments and timetables. I would therefore like to ask the oil industry for a more concrete follow-up plan by mid-January, and the authorities will follow the matter closely through strategic supervisory activities. So just a few words related to the dental assistants, where it's said that we've been quite absent. Of course, I do not agree with that. I believe that what we have done is that we have been given money to document the health damage. So what comes out now of more concrete evidence of possible health damage is as a result that the government and I have given money to get documentation in place. It is important, because Norwegian professional injury is such that you cannot claim only professional injury. There is evidence that there is a link between what has happened in professional life and possible health damage that you have. That's not what the representative Svendsen says, that these are special diseases. These are common diseases, for example: cancer. Then we have to look for whether there can be an over-representation of cancer in a profession, and whether it can be related to the working environment, in order to form the basis for a professional injury. Therefore, evidence is very important. That is why, when we get the second report on dental technicians, we can move on in cooperation with them. We have already scheduled a meeting with them in November.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e416	Then the interpellation debate in case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e434	Let me start with a quote from the report «From school to study to work or disability?» There one of the informants tells the following story: ‘I applied for a post as a function consultant, which is linked to Aeta’s work centres and shall assist disabled people with job search. But I did not get the job on the grounds that there was so far no access for visually impaired people to Aeta's computer system." It is Rehab-Nor's research report that has been carried out on behalf of the Norwegian Blind Federation, I quote from. Now Aetat has become NAV, and the computer system has hopefully been replaced. But history is too much like other stories we hear. Disabled persons do not meet as we do with a working life that demands their competence. On the contrary, they often encounter obstacles that could and should have been cleared up by the road. Only 46 pst. by disabled persons in work, against 75 pst. for the population as a whole. Let me include another quote from the report, to illustrate how we spoil with competence in our society. The informant in question says: ‘The branch manager at the employment office while I was studying was very ok, but the next one lacked competence and wanted me to get over to disability for the most time possible. It seemed like it was about making the quickest possible completion of a case so he got a high score on the number of finished cases." The Soria Moria Declaration has an ambitious goal of a working life with room for all. Persons with disabilities shall have the same opportunities as others to take part in their professional activities and to provide for themselves. I know that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion is working intensively on measures to enable this: it has announced the presentation of an anti-discrimination law. The NAV reform will coordinate and strengthen the auxiliary equipment. We have already put in place a system of social security schemes for permanent wage subsidies in five sample groups. It goes on. The Tripartite Agreement between the social partners and the State — the IA Agreement — includes people with disabilities in the labour market as one of its main objectives. It works, but the results are far from impressive. Too many people with disabilities experience in their meeting with the NAV offices to be motivated by disability rather than qualification for work, and the objectives of the IA agreement on the integration of people with disabilities have come fully under the shadow of the objectives of reducing sick leave. In a society with a high level of labour shortage, it is difficult to understand that we use so little the opportunities to use the resources of the many well-educated and well-motivated disabled people who want to support themselves through their own work – yes, who have the primary objective of not least entering into qualification and long-term education. In a 2006 note to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, the State Council for the Disabled has made a number of proposals to reach the IA Agreement’s intentions. Available instruments and measurable targets will be absolutely necessary to achieve results, they state that they justify their series of proposals aimed at the public sector, the public sector as an employer, the business sector and employee organisations. I am pleased to note that the Ministry of Renewal and Administration has now established a training programme for the recruitment of disabled people to state businesses. The government believes that the integration of people with disabilities is too late and is now making demands for its own efforts. Five per cent of all state new employees over the next two years shall be from the target population, it is called. This represents as far as I understand, 600-700 people per year. That's good! In general, the public has not been an excellent example of a more inclusive working life. That is why it is good that something is being done in this area. And it's like we're going to expect our reactions to a business life for the rest of us who don't do anything to work, we have to be role models ourselves. In cooperation with Telenor, Abelia, a knowledge-based employers’ organisation has for a number of years had a training programme that the Labour and Social Committee has had the opportunity to visit. It made sense to meet well-trained people who, after years of striving to use their skills in the workplace without success, got work after completing this training programme. Win-win-principle is the basis for our work, says Abelia. Activities win because they can recruit loyal, competent staff. The disabled win because employment is an important area of professional development, social inclusion and economic growth. Society wins when persons go from social security to work, from recipient to contributor, from user to citizen. Despite good examples, we know that disabled people are discriminated against in the workplace. The labour market points to the fact that universal design and organisation of disabled jobseekers will be expensive. Yes, organisation will lead to costs, but that is not a viable argument for a low level of protection against discrimination. Well, planning is all about conscious choices as about big financial investments. It's about value choices where respect and social benefit go hand in hand. Employment practices both in the country, in the municipality and in the private sector show that employment needs to take its own place and put the intentions of the agreement on an inclusive working life into practice. ‘Talents in need of passports,’ says Abelia. They recommend that working life in their job advertisements encourage disabled people to apply and that qualified people with disabilities be called for an interview. Yeah, that should be the least. Then they point to another tool – as we have also discussed here in Stortinget – a Green Card for disabled jobseekers from NAV, where all tools, economic and technical, are clear when they meet for job interview, and are automatically triggered by confirmation of employment. When we deal with this – otherwise a Document No. 8 proposals from the Right – the Council of State indicated that there are already provisions to provide such guarantees. The problem is that this is not well known, nor with those who were to practice the scheme. As elected representatives, we have a responsibility to help the individual in NAV see the opportunities of the job seekers and not too quickly recommend disability benefits or other schemes. When businesses that say they are open to employ people with disabilities, the problem is that they do not even get applicants, there is something wrong in the communication between the public utility and what is demanded in the labour market. I share the opinion of many disabled people who say that the rule should be that no young disabled person should be dissatisfied until one has been through an organized training and qualification programme for work. The possibilities have to be tested. It may take time, it may require motivation and support, but every disability that comes into work is proof enough to make time and effort pay for it. The labour force and disabled people must experience predictability and an unbureaucratic follow-up from the ancillary public service, which ensures that they benefit from the work line even if their function is impaired. I record that many, too many, do not feel that it is such a device they meet today, although the intentions of the device itself may be the best. In practice, the disabled do not experience its functioning. That is why I have allowed myself to challenge the Minister of Labour and Inclusion on how he will contribute to the strengthening of the IA Agreement and the NAV's vocational assistance objectives in the work aimed at the disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e467	Once again, an important interpellation and a theme that I believe in itself is a point of keeping high on the political agenda, both to make ourselves responsible and to show the disabled and society around us that this is important. There is no doubt that we are not successful enough, and that is why we have a job to do. At the same time, when we see that we're not succeeding well enough, and that we have a job to do, it's also important to try to get involved if there's any change, if there's any positive developments to track. In this debate, I want to leave some, at least, who can inspire us to stand on even harder. It is important to understand that in the 16–24 age group, the participation of people with disabilities is now about the same as in the general age group. It seems that we're able to get further for the youngest. We see that in the 25–39 age group, i.e. the next age group, participation in employment has actually increased slightly more among the disabled than in the population as a whole. However, overall, there is no doubt that participation in employment is much lower among the disabled than in the population, and overall, for the last five years, it has remained stable at around 45 p.m., while participation in employment generally exceeds 70 p.m. There is no doubt that there is a basis for taking this up, but it is also important to split it up a little bit and see if there are any positive experiences we can draw on and build on. At least it is important that we in this Chamber are very clear that we have a very difficult project in common, which we are in the process of implementing, namely the NAV reform. What I experience as one of the most challenging at these times is that it seems that the NAV reform has been adopted and implemented, and it is now coming to the conclusion that NAV has not worked. I think it's very unfortunate if it gets the impression attached. In fact, we are in the process of implementing NAV. Today it is approx. 95 NAV Office. This means that more than 330 municipalities are still lacking the NAV office, and many of the offices that are established are well established and have, of course, their entry problems. At the end of this year we want 110 NAV offices. By the end of next year we will have 250 NAV offices. But by the end of 2008, we will still lack almost 200 NAV offices, which we have to work very hard to establish. In addition, it is important to remember that NAV is an organisational reform, yes, but it is also a content reform, and we are in the process of phasing in the new content of NAV. There is no doubt that one of the main reasons for NAV is the type of experience that has emerged, among other things. in the Blind Federation report that the welfare device has not worked well enough – therefore NAV. We've already taken the confession over us, and we're now, as I said, in the middle of a huge social reform, both organisationally and in terms of content. What do I mean by content changes? Yes, we are now following up St.meld. No 9 for 2006–2007 on work, welfare and inclusion. We're going to follow it up very concretely. The size is aware – not least the committee from which most of the members of the room are now present – that there is already a legislative proposal for a new qualification programme. It can be an important tool. We know that we need to change the follow-up of the agency’s assistance to build on an assessment of the individual’s working capacity – as we are looking for here – the working situation and needs. And it's going to be created with the active involvement of the individual user. That is why we are already in the process of consulting a draft amendment to the Regulation on labour market measures, which proposes new clarification and follow-up measures extending and complementing the current system, with a focus on working capacity. The trial of five counties of non-temporary wage subsidies has been ongoing for almost one year. There is already clear positive experience that disabled people come to work through that scheme. Last week I visited a wheelchair user from Akershus who had received a job in an architect's company here in Oslo, where this pay subsidy scheme was the instrument that triggered the job. And in the draft budget for next year, there is a very concrete proposal to make that scheme nationwide from 2008. The proposal for a new scheme with regard to the time-limited guarantee of income – which continues to be called; we are struggling a little with what it should be called – that is to replace rehabilitation money, back-up money and time-limited unpaid pay, is about to be sent to the hearing. Everything is in line with the big message of work, well-being and inclusion, just as the Government has proposed, and to which the Storting has joined. So the main thing is the NAV reform. We're on, but we're in no way in the goal. Then it's important to have a strong focus on the exact timeframe that is about the transition from education to work. We see that the disabled take education, go to school, and do well there, but we can't convert education into work. If we are to identify bottlenecks that we need to pay particular attention to, it is the time of completion of education and transition to work. In the future, of course, it must not be such that NAV staff can be measured to meet that challenge by clarifying their disability. The measurement has to be whether we're able to get people to work. We are aware that attention is very important here in relation to the cooperation between the county council, not least for those who go to high school, and the labour and welfare seat. That is why we have also concluded a cooperation agreement with KS with a strong focus on it. The interpellant himself mentioned the training programme that the Minister of Renewal has taken up, that 5 pst. new employees in central central government must be disabled, precisely from the point of view of the inter-pellant, namely that we must lead by example. We need to be aware that, in connection with the Civil Service Act, radical quotas for people with disabilities are already allowed, and we need to evaluate whether we get the effect out of it. In the context of the IA agreement, we are now implementing new instruments, both IA sites for disabled persons and a new organisation guarantee together with the health and rehabilitation service grant. We are clarifying in the budget that pilot schemes for work and education travel – where we have some trials going up against county municipalities and some up against NAV – are now the responsibility of NAV, precisely for focusing on work. As the interpellant had in mind, I would also like to say that the proposal for a new law on discrimination and accessibility, which I am going to present to the European Parliament in spring 2008, will be important in order to make society accessible. Because you could say that people with disabilities have to participate in work, but if society is not available so that you can get from home to work via transport, via access to buildings, at all, to get there, we will not achieve our goals. Therefore, there will be important measures under the Discrimination and Availability Act and it will be followed up by a new Action Plan for increased accessibility in the autumn of 2008. We are now also sending out to consultation proposals to introduce business activity and reporting obligations, including the public sector, in order to speed up the work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e493	Thank you for your answer, and not least thank you for supporting a comprehensive work that is now being done to facilitate access to the labour market also for disabled people. It is true that being a disabled person does not automatically mean that you have reduced working capacity. But then, unfortunately, too, there are too many people who think that if you have a disability, you also have a severely impaired ability to work. This is why the interpellation is more a desire to focus on what we can do to help the whole of public aid, including through the work done under the IA Agreement, enter into and actively discuss what kind of attitudes must be on the basis of which the set of instruments and measures that are now being stepped up should have the desired effect. It may also be that some of the measures need to be put in place in a practical way, providing a way of working to ensure that both users and employers feel safe to enter into an employment relationship with these measures in place. I mentioned Abelia and the training program they have with Telenor, and I mentioned that the Labour and Social Committee was visiting. I stopped and talked to one of the participants in the training program, and I basically didn't understand what disability was – that was my little problem. I could not understand that he had a disability. We talked, and it was a very up-to-date individual with a university education, but I couldn't figure out what the problem was. Yes, she said: I have a hearing impairment, but it is such today that with the help we can get, it is not a big problem for me, as I experience it. But it was for the employer. Knowing that he had a hearing impairment was enough to make the person professional, even though she herself did not feel like it, and even if we who talked to her, could not understand that she was. So it has something to do with the level of knowledge, and it has something to do with the attitude that needs to go hand in hand with the measures we are now taking, because so much resources are being put into it that now we also have to make sure that we get results. It is in this context that I believe that the internal work of the Auxiliaries in NAV is very important when they are about to take action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e502	I agree that the perspective that the interpellant has is very important. At the same time, I am also optimistic, in the sense that I experience a growing recognition of an increasing proportion of Norwegian working life, where many now live with a situation where labour shortages characterize everyday life. As a result, more and more people are now seeking to recruit people from groups who have a potential in the sense that they are under-represented in the world of work. When we look at the unemployment rates now, we see that seniors get to work quickly, long-term unemployed and young people get to work quickly, and immigrants get to work faster. I also feel that negative attitudes towards employing disabled people are turning around. I'm optimistic about the future. At the same time, there is no basis for us from the authority side to thus take a break and say that now things happen by themselves – because I believe that precisely in a situation where the labour market is good, and precisely in a situation where the employer side is now changing some attitudes, it would be ground for good results if we manage to follow it up with active measures. This is why this interpellation is important, and therefore the work done in this area is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e509	In the ‘Social Accounts for Gender Equality and Discrimination’ published by the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman, we can read that 15 pst. In 2006, the population aged 16 to 66 thought that they had a health problem that led to limitations in daily life. Very many of these can and will like to work. In my two years at Stortinget, there is no theme that is more discussed than just availability and equal opportunities for everyone. Several times a week I get enquiries from people with disabilities, from their relatives or from organisations. Several times a week we can read in newspapers or hear in the news criticisms about accessibility and immoderate organisation and management practices in the ancillary administration. Several can also tell about a social security office that offers disability benefits to people who can and will work, only they are given some help on the way. Fuzzyness and grey areas create uncertainty and frustration. The lack of interconnection means that the waiting time becomes unacceptable. Too often the best solution for the user is not chosen. And the economic side seems to be completely forgotten, the law is being followed slavely, even though another solution is both better and more reasonable for the one to have the help. For a while back, I read in the online newspaper of Asker and Bærum's Invitation about a man in a wheelchair who, after seeking a lot of jobs, had finally found the dream job. Three months later, he had not yet started, due to waiting time for an explanation as to whether he could cover the cost of getting to and from work, and the employer began to become impatient. When we dealt with the welfare message and when we considered the Right's proposal on Green Card, the Committee placed great emphasis on the need for high-priority tools in the context of work, and that the user had to be sure that this came into place quickly when the need arose, which the Council of State promised to follow up. In the 2008 draft budget, the government says that it will facilitate the rapid and effective dissemination of all social benefits to people with disabilities in their daily lives, working life and in the context of education. How long have the politicians been saying this? My question to the Council of State must be: have we come any further in achieving this? Governments have partly responded to it initially today. But the number of people with disabilities in work is still not increasing. Many people feel disabled because society is too poorly organized. It is a crossroads of thought that in the Law on Planning and Building, there has been a law on accessibility for 30 years. It would not believe, when we are still confronted with new acquisitions in public transport and construction of new buildings that to a very small extent or at all are not universally designed. People who depend on wheelchairs do not send job applications to work for which they are qualified, simply because they know that the building the company is in, is not available for wheelchairs. In my municipality today, we are building a cultural house for half a billion dollars. It was sad to note that when the Christian People's Party proposed that the House of Culture should be accessible to all, a majority of the local government voted against this, including the Council of State party. I'm just starting to lose faith that we're going to get this done. There are already a number of laws, regulations, regulations, rights and opportunities. Then at least all this information about this has to come out. In addition, those working in this field must be familiar with all existing support schemes and rights. As of today, there are gaps and gaps in the knowledge of those responsible for this field. It shows both rings while we have done, and stories told by several who have experienced this on the body. Governments have a very important and necessary job to do, the IA Agreement must be fulfilled according to their wishes, intentions, objectives and promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e532	Let me first thank the representative Dagfinn Sundsbø for raising a very important and exciting theme and putting it on the agenda. I also think he made a very good contribution in which he explained why he had raised the matter. I think I agreed with everything he said. It is important to keep this issue high on the political agenda, because I think it is an important contribution to our long-term success. I think everyone can agree that we want a working life where there is room for everyone. I also believe that everyone sees the need for people with disabilities to be integrated into the labour market, not least when we are aware of the strong need for increased labour. I must also admit that the effort to achieve this has a significant potential for improvement, in order to express it very carefully. In Norway, we have a tired tendency to place people in booths or groups. The topic raised in this debate is really a discussion about the possibilities of individuals, not about people with disabilities, not about people with disabilities, but briefly about individuals with different desires, needs, abilities and facilities, in exactly the same way as all of us who do not have different disabilities. In a working situation, these people can be as functionally healthy and have exactly the same working capacity as others. I am at least very happy that Dagfinn Sundsbø in his second post clarified it so clearly. I think there's a lot of the explanation that these have problems on the labour market. It's a common myth that you're disabled, and you also have a reduced working capacity. There's no logical context here. Of course, for some it's like this, but so many people have their working skills to the full. I think it's very important to be clear about that. That is exactly why I believe this workability assessment, which is now to be based, is very important. It's a new way of thinking to those who need to be a helper to integrate these into the world of work. The measures to be taken should be positive measures that can help them create a new chance. Measures may be to adapt a job to the individual’s needs in such a way that a person with disabilities in a work situation can be as functionally healthy as anyone else. To take an example: a lawyer doesn't get any worse at prosecuting matters if she's sitting in a wheelchair, but she usually wants the doors she's going through to be wide enough, and that it's not a doorstep. Right will have a society with equal opportunities for everyone and a working life where everyone gets to participate and where those who fall outside will have a new chance. Unfortunately, the problem for many of those who get the label disabled is that very many of them are not available in the workplace. It's scary to read and hear about people who, because of their ability to function, are recommended to be illiterate, even at a young age. We've all heard a lot of these examples. It's pretty well documented. I can't imagine any greater failure statement for a welfare society like the Norwegian one than that the offer to a young person who wants and can contribute is that you say that the offer and the help we have for you is that you can be dissatisfied. It's a shame, it's unsocial, and it's immoral. That is why I also believe that the NAV reform can be an important contribution to achieving better results in this area. But I also have to say, in the extension of what Kari Kjöna's Kjos was about, that when a year ago when we made this proposal on Green Card, we heard that there was already a guarantee scheme that would take care of the same thing, I began to become quite impatient after results here. It seems that this is still a relatively well-kept secret in the system. Then I'll just finally ask the Council later in the debate to tell us a little about what he and his offices have done to make this arrangement better known.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e549	I would also like to thank the interpellant for the important theme he addresses. I would also agree with the Council of State when he says that right now we have a situation on the labour market where it is important to use the opportunity that is there now, both with new measures, as the Council of State has explained, and not least with the changed attitudes that need to be taken. I'll first say a little bit about some of the measures. The Labour and Social Committee has just been on a committee trip in the United States to study the law there, which is strongly on anti-discrimination and accessibility. It has worked like this for up to 15 years. There are visible results in society, with physical availability in many more places than in Norway. The problem there is that, just like here, they are struggling with negative attitudes in the labour market to people with disabilities, as well as lacking many of the social benefits and support systems that are here. In Norway, we have significantly better levels of social benefits and support systems but lack much more availability. A combination of these two pieces is probably what it takes to succeed. This is about equality and anti-discrimination, and not primarily about social policy. This is why, among other things: the training programme now under way by the Government, very important. There is a call for all, including public employers, to do the same because there is a great deal of competence that public employers need not least in order to provide services to their entire population. Competence and experience in the public sector are needed, to a greater extent than many other employers. Therefore, I hope this is the beginning of a much more offensive policy, where employers' policies have diversity as a heading, where people go out actively and recruit, ask people to apply, and actively facilitate it in their own business. It will be a win-win situation – as Telenor’s strategy has proved successful – and I am absolutely convinced that the public sector will benefit from it at least as well. Therefore, rules on public acquisition are also important, so that in the public sector it does not continue to buy things that make it impossible to hire people with disabilities, because it is not practical to do so. So I'd like to say a little bit about what's called attitudes, which might also be one of the things that triggered the representative Sundsbø's interpellation. We have recently heard all these stories about how individuals are met at NAV. I have been working on this theme in Stortinget for ten years, and it is not that this is an attitude that has arisen now. This attitude has been present, if not dominant, both in the old Aetat and in the old Social Security Office. The question is, what do we do to change it? Of course, NAV needs new tools to be more active in conveying work to people with disabilities, and that is what we do. But there is also a question of an attitude change. I believe that one of the most important things that can happen when the state goes out actively and recruits disabled people for their own business is a contribution to the change of attitude both in NAV, of course, and also in other employers. But what do we do when the NAV system advises people with disabilities to apply for social security rather than try to get a job? Then I want to focus on a part of the legislation that I think there is room for practicing in a far different way from today. It is the legislation concerned with training as a reintroduction. In that legislation, there is an opening for a longer education course if you are disabled, because what we know about the labour market is that you need training to qualify for the labour market, and disabled people need more education than others to do so. This is why it is extremely important that we and the Council of State ensure that the legislation is exploited so that those who can benefit from education actually get it, and not be discouraged and asked to churn down their ambitions in relation to the working life, because one has a view that disabled people should not in a way have such thoughts and want a professional career as others have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e562	It is probably more than I have asked this question: why are so many people with disabilities with both motivation and knowledge needed by the labour market in the statistics on job seekers with disabilities? The labour force is yelling at the labour force. Authorities, employers and employee organisations are committed to working for better inclusion. NAV already has quite a number of instruments in place to assist both jobseekers and potential employers with specific arrangements. There is a paradox in this sea of political goodwill and use that the situation is nevertheless as it is, and that the IA agreement has produced more words than results. The interpellant refers to the labour force survey. Statistical material is important, but it is often easy to forget about individuals. It's only when we meet individuals and their stories that the seriousness of the situation really goes up for us. Like a teacher with extensive school experience, with a master's degree in special education. He's hearing-impaired and has a weak degree of Cerebral Parese. He has applied for a number of jobs, but never comes further than for an interview. It shines through the fact that the cause is disability. He says, ‘The IA scheme is not worth the paper on which it is written.’ And he goes on to say, ‘It’s exhausting to go home and not be part of the pulsating working life that’s currently going down. There are many with me who can sign the feeling of standing on land while the boat is laying off the berth." The overall image is not uniquely black. Many people also work well with disabilities in their working life. Abelia is mentioned as a good example of just that. But too many people can sign the quote I gave and have met the skepticism of employers. The representative Sundsbø focused in particular on the need for employees in NAV to motivate for work. It is not difficult to agree that it must seem very debilitating when people who want help to get into work are faced with a call for social security. But I don't think it's NAV's employees that's the main reason why so many disabled people end up in social security and not in work. Although there will always be a need to tease employees in NAV on what their main task should be, and what the main purpose of the NAV reform has been, it is likely that the focus should be extended. Together, we can strengthen the measures that give people with a real chance of success in the labour market. It is very positive to hear about young people who have come into work. I think it's important that we take care that the period from the end of education until they get to work is as short as possible. Speakers of the position have been very concerned to point out that the number of actions for this group has increased during their term of office, which of course the Christian People's Party agrees with. At the same time, however, we believe that there has been a focus on the quantity – the number of places – and that it has been at the expense of the content of the measures. The Council of State has stated that there is no point in ensuring that the measures are as costly as possible. He's right about that. However, there is also no important point that they should be as cheap as possible, possibly short-lived. The point must be that the measures taken are best suited to providing lasting, good results. Many in this group need longer-term measures and close follow-up. Potential employers, who may fear that they will take on an extra heavy burden or uncertainty if they employ this person, also need support. Such measures have not been adequately prioritised. We can do something about this already in the harvest. I agree with Karin Andersen, who says that the state must also follow the objective of the number of disabled people who are employed. But I think it looks very positive after the inter-political commitment today. Now action remains, and I am waiting in suspense for the budget procedure of the harvest in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e594	Thanks to the inter-pellant Dagfinn Sundsbø, who is raising an important debate – a debate that needs to be re-opened again and again until we have an equivalent working life, where it becomes obvious that everyone has equal rights and equal access. We know that unemployment is not our major challenge, that there is a shortage of labour that is the challenge of the future, and that so many remain out of work in Norway today. The interpellant said in his post that a lot of work is being done, but the results are missing. I'd say it's possible to go even further and say that there's a lot of talk, but the results are missing. We probably have common intentions across politics, and there have been many good actions both from this government and from the previous government, but there will be a lot of talk. By that I mean to say that we do not go deep enough to work, there are not enough sanctions against those who do not follow up their intentions, and we are not doing strong enough. If you have a disability, you may have a reduced ability to work – but it is not certain. You may, probably, need different arrangements. Or, in another way, you need help getting over some barriers. And these barriers are interesting. It is my claim that attitudes in society are the worst barrier, attitudes consisting of fear. An employer fears to hire employees when he is unsure about the type of organisation needed. We must take that fear seriously. While it is important for employers to be committed both in the public and private sectors, it is also important that employers who are willing to participate in this in an offensive way should receive support and help. The other barrier is the physical barriers, ranging from transport to and from work to the organisation of computer equipment, chairs and doors, and all that is needed for an equal participation. There has been a lot of work done, and more can be done. Where I think it's even more important to bet, in the case of the barrier that's called follow-up: having a mentor, having a job where you don't just get physical organization, but with human help in everyday work. The last and perhaps most important point, is that we need time. The most important thing you can do for a disabled person is to give them time. The taximeter must not go at the same speed for all employees, and we must not have the same view of what a year's work is. Counting it as 37.5 hours in then and as many weeks a year is wrong, because people are different and work at different speeds. If we manage to give an annual work a different meaning to that of today through wage subsidies schemes and other schemes, we are able to include much more in the labour market. If we are to succeed, the NAV reform must succeed. I believe that a barrier – one of many – is that those who have been employed in the social security system, those who have been employed in the workplace and in social services, have been in the same breakdowns for many years. It would have been useful with work rotation, where the person who has worked with social security, now is going to work with work, and the person who has worked with work is going to work with social matters. It can be done in the new welfare state, and I hope the Council of State calls for exciting solutions to get a good team and succeed with the NAV reform. Furthermore, we can work with legislation, anti-discrimination legislation, we can work with training programmes, with guarantees and with radical quotas. I'm very concerned that the very young people who go from high school are going to work. I'm glad the government will take hold of that particular group. But maybe we need to focus on this thing that has to do with time, that a year of work should be different for us people, because we provide different. I have been working in the public sector for many years, and if you employ a teacher in 100 pst. position, then he would work just as effectively as all the other teachers, in exactly the same number of minutes, with just as many students. If you could have worked every two hours in teaching, or every three hours, and spent more time getting inside, having smaller groups and delivering at a different speed, much more would succeed. We know that the major challenge in the healthcare sector is the high time pressure. If you can mitigate the time pressure, much more will succeed in health and care, which is also a public sector. And then finally. Today, we have intentions and quotas as to how many people with disabilities should be employed. Maybe to a much greater extent, we're going to turn it around a little bit and say that all companies of a certain size among their employees have to have a certain number of disabled people. When the annual report is drawn up at the company, it should be noted that the quota has been filled with the manu­factured jobs in each enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e621	I thank you for the debate and thank you for the documentation on this issue. It's like this on Stortinget that there are some questions where the will, the intention, the attitudes, can be the same and the Stortinget can actually gather to contribute with measures that can also make us change the world outside of us a little bit. When I reported this interpellation, it was first on the basis of the media debate that was linked to the Blind Federation report that came in this summer, but also a couple of follow-up phone calls from people who said this is right, you have to take this into account, I feel that I was not motivated to use my resources when I met the auxiliary device. It can't be like that. We need an assistive device that motivates me, so that I can use my resources, and not say that it is enough difficult for you that the best thing would be for you to settle down with social security from now on. Fortunately, the two who called have not done so, and are doing well. I record that we put great trust in NAV and in the consequences of the reform we are putting into action. So do I. But it is clear that all the individual measures and intentions we put into the reform must be followed up with the way in which each employee in the department works. I don't think there's a lack of will, but I think maybe, as the representative, Mr. Tørersdal, suggested, that you might have developed a way of being because you don't think it's useful, which means it doesn't work. In order to motivate positive, it must mean that you believe more than the environment around you believe. That's when you can change, and that's what we might have to make sure to build into the new tool: a stronger belief that it benefits, than what's in the environment around you, both in those who are users, and – not least – in those who are employers. Then big things could happen in this area. So it was nice to hear the Council of State say that after all, it's going forward in the youngest groups of disabled people. After I reported the interpellation, I saw a small TV fixer, which I will be allowed to end with. There were three disabled people, three wheelchair users, who went on a course in NAV to learn how to drive construction machines. When asked if she now really wanted to make it, one girl replied that yes, there was something wrong with her legs, but she had the wrist, for she had, based on her experience with wheelchairs, better handle than most. The planters were excellent, and it was fun to see her get the certificate. So it's just to hope that there are also people who set up and make sure that she gets the job she's been dreaming about. That's what matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e639	I just want to comment on some of the things that have been said in the debate, and then answer some questions. First just a few words to the representative, Kjöna Kjos, who started by referring to a person who had had major work travel challenges. I think it was the person I visited last week, who was now working at an architect's office in Oslo. So it had at least solved itself. But it's an illustration that we've been running an experiment with a work trip and the question of anchoring it in county municipalities or in NAV. Just to have a close connection to work and to get people a job, we have concluded in the draft budget for next year that we are adding that scheme to NAV. Then I think it's very good, the commitment I've experienced that the representative of Kjenaas Kjos has in several contexts related to availability and construction, criticism of the law today and reference to cultural houses that are still not universally designed. We just can't live with the shame it is that today, culture houses are being built that are not universally designed, and I very much agree with the representative that we must have the more solar ambition associated with the work we are now doing with the Accessibility Act, the Anti-Discrimination Act and a revision of the Planning and Building Act, that we must put in place a law that will ensure that the dirtholes that are obviously still there are close. If it's an ambition I have for the coming year, it's to contribute to such a law and to have it put forward, so that the government we now have, and this big deal can make sure we get there at least. I am pleased to cooperate with Kjeenas Kjos on that. So just a few comments to the representative Tørresdal, who I agree with a lot of what is said. But when you ask questions about a lot of talk, and if you don't go deep enough, well, it's hard to imagine a more profound reform than the NAV reform. At least I am happy not to be responsible for more profound reforms than the NAV reform, where we are now really reorganising the whole welfare system and the entire content of the welfare system, precisely because we see that it has not worked well enough. So something more than talking is at least. There's a giant reform going on to meet the challenges that we all agree we're facing. Otherwise, only until the end of the day to the representative Engeset: I believe that the organization grant should be well known, but I will ask for it in the directorate, and I ask to return with an answer to Engeset about it later.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e655	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-08.ana.ud628e666	There is no record. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
