ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e24	The representative Heikki Holmås, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representative of Trond Helleland will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e32	I am delighted on behalf of the undersigned, Elisabeth Aspaker, Øyvind Halleraker and André Oktay Dahl to make a proposal on the possibility of electronic police reporting of thefts on the Internet.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e37	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e40	I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the undersigned and Ulf Leirstein to introduce a new model of individual pension savings with tax deductions, as well as to reintroduce previous rules relating to annuity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e45	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e69	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main question, from the representative Dagfinn Høybräten.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e78	I have a question for the Prime Minister. On Monday, the Labour Party presented its proposal on how they feel the future relationship between state and church should be. I must say I wondered about this proposal, partly because it simply does not relate, partly because it bears witness to a lack of respect for the Norwegian Church as a religious community. The State Church shall be retained, but the paragraph which makes the Church a state church shall be removed. The consequence is that we get a so-called value-neutral state that is to rule a religious society. The proposal states that Section 2 is to be replaced by a value paragraph. The Workers' Party proposes that this should include a protection of man's inherent and inviolable rights, but does not say that there should be a reference to the Christian basis of values. This means that we can stand without a anchoring in Christian values in the Constitution. Gunnar Stålsett has recently called this a valuable suicide at one of the government parties’ national meetings. It seems that the only working party is willing to make a constitution is its own need to govern the Church in detail. The Minister of the Church will be sitting as a sort of over-judge over church democracy. If there's anything in the last year's debate on the relationship between state and church has shown, it's that the Christian cultural heritage is strong among the people most, and that very many are happy in their church. So many, regardless of faith, are anxious for the great will that is seen in some circles to gradually erase our Christian identity as a nation. Does the Prime Minister think that our national Christian heritage should not be enshrined in the Constitution? And is the Prime Minister still prepared to engage in a broad discussion with all the parties on the Stortinget about the future church system and the future anchoring of value for Norwegian society?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e95	First, I would like to thank the representative, Højbräten, for asking questions about the state-church relationship, because that is a big and important question. It's a question that concerns many people. This concerns important principles. Religion and outlook on life are important for individuals, but it is also important for the community and for society. What the Central Government of the Workers Party has done is to adopt some guidelines for our further work on State-Church issues. It must now be handled in the Government, and it must also be handled in the Stortinget. An important premise for our decision is that we invite the broad dialogue on the state-church relationship in the future, on the one hand, and on the other, a broad dialogue with parties here on the Storting, and on the other hand a broad dialogue with religious communities and life-sight societies outside the political environment on the other. It says, among other things: in the decision that we invite to dialogue with the Church just about how to design the church regime in the future. What has been important, and which is the goal of the Workers' Party with what we have now adopted, are two things: it's getting a better state, because this is both about what kind of state we're going to have and what kind of church we're going to have. With a ‘better state’, we believe that we should no longer have an official state religion, and that is quite a broad consensus in Norway, according to the position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. We believe that the state should embrace all, and therefore should not profess a particular religion, the Evangelical-Lutherian faith. At the same time, we are committed to securing the Norwegian Church as a broad, open and inclusive church. That is why we are committed to ensuring that it is financed and still secured a special position. Today, the state has one area where it rules over the Norwegian Church, and it is linked to the appointment of prosthetics and bishops. Other questions have already been transferred to other church bodies. There we say that when internal democracy in the Church works better, we are also prepared to transfer those decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e106	I am pleased to note that the Prime Minister has had a broad dialogue on this issue, and that may be necessary, because his own government parties have not exactly taken the wave of the proposal of the Central Government of the Workers' Party. I also believe that I must inform the Prime Minister that here in Stortinget there will be a hardly constitutional majority for the type of proposal that has been aired by the central government. But this does not prevent us from having a broad dialogue based on the wide-ranging meeting of the Prime Minister in the Gjønnes Committee. But what I asked about was whether the Prime Minister – who is concerned about what the majority believes, it emerged from his reply – agrees with the large majority in the hearing replies to this investigation, the 81 pst. which says that the Constitution must still have a reference to the Christian and humanistic values. Does he agree with these 81 percent? And does he agree with Gunnar Stålsett, who believes it is crucial for Norway that we have such a reference to our identity as a cultural nation in the Constitution?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e113	What we're doing is following up on what a broad majority in the Committee on Gender Equality suggested, namely that we change Section 2 of the Constitution where the state professes one particular religion, the Evangelical Lutheran faith. There is a broad consensus that the state should no longer have one official religion, and I also perceive that the Christian People's Party agrees with that. Then we agree that we should have a new, pooling value paragraph, and that is also the broad support for it. I also believe that the Christian People's Party agrees that we should replace today's state religion with a more collective value paragraph, because the state should include all, including the minorities who do not belong to the Evangelical-Lutherian faith. We are open to dialogue on how to design the new cumulative value paragraph. That's why we haven't been completely specific about how it's going to happen. One alternative is that it refers to the Christian cultural heritage, human values and human rights and that it is incorporated into the new cumulative value paragraph. We haven't finally concluded. What we're concerned about is getting to a cumulative value paragraph and no longer having an official state religion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e120	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e123	In line with Dagfinn Højbråten, I would like to stress that there is hardly any accumulation in relation to the solution that the Workers' Party has now outlined. But back to the main question of the Højbråt. I would like the Prime Minister to clarify the answer a little bit. Even if one wants a distinction between church and state – which may be appropriate both for the state, for the Church and for society, not least because it will give a church with much greater legitimacy, without political governance – one can at the same time be concerned, as the Progress Party is, that the Christian cultural heritage and the Christian ethics, which are fundamental values of Norwegian society, are also reflected in the Norwegian Constitution. The Prime Minister has now pointed this out as a possible alternative, but I would very much like the Prime Minister to be clearer about the importance of the Christian cultural heritage, which should also be reflected in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e130	The Christian cultural heritage is important to Norway. It has helped shape the Norwegian society and shape important values for our society and for individuals in Norway. At the same time, all parties believe that it is problematic that the Norwegian State has one official religion, the Evangelical Lutheran faith, which does not even embrace, for example. Catholics living in this country. So that's why almost all of the parties, as I understand it, have thought that we're no longer going to have an official state religion, we're going to have a new cumulative value paragraph. When we invite dialogue about it, it's just not to come up with a dictatorship, but to try to come up with a new, pooling alternative value paragraph instead of what we have today as an official state religion. The second is that I mean the term ‘state church’ is an unpresist concept, because if we believe with the Church of State that we are going to have a state religion, I perceive that all parties are to abolish it. We're no longer going to have an official state religion. If you believe in a church that has special rights, there is a broad majority for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e138	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e141	Let me stress that I think the Prime Minister should take on board that the two previous speakers and the undersigned are now giving a clear signal that the Workers' Party has taken up as a proposal, is not a proposal to build a compromise on the future organisation of the Church of the State and the relationship between a State and a Church. It is illogical that the Prime Minister is now proselytizing – which is quite right – that a lot of us have a problem with the state confessing to one religion. At the same time, however, when it is said that a state government is to be established over a church, one must expect that church to have a religion – I thought it was one of its purposes – and then one will indirectly nevertheless have a religious view and a belief that is constitutional in Norway. The Greens said the two paragraphs are connected. Doesn't the Prime Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e146	The central government of the Workers' Party has adopted what the Workers' Party believes is a good solution. I think this is a good solution because it takes care of both a cleaner and better state that respects people who have different views of life, other religions. At the same time, it ensures a special position in Norway because we believe it reflects Norwegian history, Norwegian tradition. I think that is a good solution. But then we say at the same time, because we're not going to be arrogant, not dictate a solution, that we want dialogue, but that here's our starting point. I believe that this is a good starting point, among other things. Because we are then able to solve problems related to a state religion, of which no party is anymore a member. And then we're actually saying that once we've developed a more representative democracy in the Church in the two areas where the state currently has power over the Church, that is, the appointment of pros and bishops, we're prepared to transfer those decisions as well. I'm actually a little surprised that you don't see the potential of this formulation. It is really crucial that we now sit down and discuss how we should develop a church law, as they have done in particular. Sweden, which allows us to transfer these decisions as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e151	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e154	What was done in Sweden was to abolish the religious system of the state. One no longer attached the state to a particular confederation, but one did not try to leave the state to be a supremacy of the Church, as if one were to rule the Vegvesen. I don't see the principles – and here I want to be a little bit free. I'm a churchman, and I've been a churchman all my life. I am a Norwegian citizen, and I feel – through the Workers' Party's decision – talked to them as if I almost needed a support contact to secure the ceiling where I live. I feel it's offensive. I think it's almost bad that on the one hand – and I understand that – you want to abolish the state religion, and the next moment when you've abolished the state religion, you have to have a church council, one or more, that rules this church just as if it's a state entity. I think that's very offensive. I don't think it shows much trust in people who have a faith – no matter what faith. So if the Prime Minister wants to conduct a dialogue, I would ask the Prime Minister to take these points of view into account in his work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e163	What was done in Sweden was, at least in one important area, a parallel to what the Workers' Party is now inviting for dialogue in Norway. In Sweden, it was said that the government's power over the appointment of bishops is removed when a more representative democracy is established in the church. It called for the elections to be held together with the parliamentary elections. There has been a substantial increase in participation in these elections. What we say in our statement is: ‘Where the legitimacy and representativeness of internally elected church bodies is ensured, any decision — including the appointment of bishops and prosthetics — may be taken by those bodies.’ I'm actually a little surprised that Dørum thinks this is an insult, when we're just inviting to a dialogue with the Church about what's going on in order to also transfer these last decisions from the church body, the Council of Churches, to other church bodies. This is an invitation to dialogue. Then I think we have to start by reading the text, and look at what's in the text. It has been tricked in all contexts, including in the case of state-church issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e175	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e178	It is the State religion of the Constitution that has provided the basis for the government to govern a religious society. But an important part of a religious community is freedom of belief. The Labour Party's proposal and the text, as the Christian People's Party has carefully read, state that 'The changes shall contribute to the effective freedom of belief and of life for religious and life-seem minorities.' Freedom of belief for religious and life-seeking minorities is important, but it becomes quite striking when freedom of belief for the Norwegian Church is not mentioned in one word. Freedom of faith is also about being able to decide who should be the leaders of the faith society. Why should not the Norwegian Church be guaranteed genuine freedom of belief – in line with Muslims, Catholics and other religious communities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e187	The Norwegian Church already has decision-making powers on almost all issues, i.e.: The church council is still a church organ, but what is determined there is not religious and doctrinal questions. It is determined by other ecclesiastical bodies — not by the Council of Churches. Then there's one area left that's determined by the Church Council of State, and there's nominations of pros and bishops. Then we say that if we get a trend towards a more representative democracy, we are prepared to transfer that decision as well. I believe that this should be welcomed. Here one opens a dialogue with the Church to find a solution where one can also transfer this last question from the Council of Churches to other church bodies. It looks a little bit like what you did in Sweden, where you set conditions. The problem with church democracy today is that it is a very low participation – about 3 pst. in church elections, and that there are many sections, from the council to the council of bishops and to the church meeting, so that the representativeness becomes very low. We want greater representativeness in the Church's organs. Then we can also transfer the last decision from the Council of Churches.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e196	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e199	I also want to ask a question about the position of the Workers' Party in the State-Church question. I want to follow up where the last question was. I have also read the text that the Workers' Party has written. I must say I am wondering about the solution that the Workers' Party has now come up with. It may de facto mean, if the Workers' Party should have a majority – they will never have – that at least half of the state councils should not be members of the State Church. In reality, this may mean that only one Council of State, the Council of Churches, can sit alone in charge of the appointment of the Norwegian Church. That is not, of course, a point of order. I am therefore surprised when the Prime Minister now says that we should wait first and see whether it is moving towards a move towards a more representative democracy in the Church. First, the Workers' Party will consider leaving the freedom to appoint its own church leaders to the Norwegian Church. Does the Prime Minister think that this is going on in a much more democratic way in other religious communities in Norway, so that the appointment of imams and other spiritual leaders is entirely unproblematic and thus does not require the interference of the Government, whereas the Norwegian Church – which is broadly anchored, with a long history, and which has a significant part of the population behind it – is not itself able to make such appointments? I believe that is a rather arrogant attitude towards a large part of the population who trust the Norwegian Church. I think the Prime Minister should elaborate on that. If this distinction is to be implemented, which many of us believe is reasonable, it should also mean that the Church itself is given the opportunity to appoint bishops and other leaders of the church organs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e209	Before the Prime Minister answers, the President will just make it clear, for the sake of order, that it is the Prime Minister who meets in Stortinget and answers and not the party leader Jens Stoltenberg – but the Prime Minister is sure to keep it apart.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e218	Thank you, President! I am in the lucky situation that I agree with the leader of the Norwegian Labour Party and think he often has several reasonable positions! [[Laughter]] To answer as Prime Minister, I would say that what the Central Government of the Workers Party has adopted is wise. The starting point is that we're just trying to find a solution that can reconcile different considerations. Firstly, there is clearly a broad consensus that the state will no longer have a state religion. It's an important principleal decision that now all parties, as I understand it, stand behind. Then there is also quite a broad consensus that the Norwegian Church should have a special position. There are few parties that believe that the Norwegian Church should be fully equated with other religious communities. The question is how much special the Norwegian Church should have. The majority of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, as well as the majority of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, who voted in favour of what some call the State-Church distinction, felt that the Norwegian Church should have a special position, linked to, among other things. funding, and that it should be a separate church law for the Norwegian Church, unlike other religious communities. Once again, I perceive that there is a broad consensus at least among the majority of the political parties that there should not be full equality between the Norwegian Church and all other religious communities. It must be the law of the Norwegian Church. There are at least many of the parties that criticise the Labour Party's proposals here now. What the Workers' Party then says is that we also want our own church law, and that we also open up to transfer the last decisions that are being taken in the church council today, namely the appointment of prosthetics and bishops, to the other organs of the Church. But then I think you can make the same kind of demands that you made in Sweden, that you have to be able to develop church democracy a little more. When we all agree that we should have our own church law, I think it's a little strange that you react very much to the state's thinking about the content of that church law when the Stortinge will adopt the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e231	I find it natural to ask the Prime Minister about this, because both the Prime Minister and the Council of Churches have, of course, the Front of the Workers' Party's view of this, and then it can be very confusing for both the Storting and the voters whether it is the Workers' Party's minority view they present, or whether it is the Government's future view they present. So it is very important that the Prime Minister respond to this. I do not think the Prime Minister answers my question, because it may seem as if the Prime Minister thinks it is more democratic and representative that the Church Council should appoint bishops on behalf of all churchgoers in Norway, than that the Church itself does. I must honestly say that for my part I would be much more comfortable with the kind of decisions made by the Church itself and not by Trond Giske, or another Council of State, which does not necessarily act with the same democratic legitimacy that the Church itself would be able to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e236	First of all, there is a broad consensus in the Gjønnes Committee to remove the requirement that half of the members of the government should be members of a particular religious community, the Norwegian Church. Then the members of the government who are members of the Norwegian Church will constitute the Council of Churches. That's exactly how it was in Sweden in all the years you had a church there, so it's not a completely foreign thought. So it's a system that you had in Sweden for a lot of years. Secondly, we invite the Church to a dialogue. Then we say very clearly that once we have developed church democracy and designed that church law all parties believe that we should have for the Norwegian Church – not for other religious communities – then we are also prepared to transfer these last decisions. I believe that instead of going into trenches, creating a greater distance, you should see the possibilities that lie in the fact that there is a broad majority in the Stortinge to no longer have a state religion. There's a broad majority to look for a cumulative value point, and then we're going to work together on the text in it. [[President clubs]] In fact, there is also a broad majority to look for opportunities to develop church democracy, so that we transfer the latest decisions from a church council to other church bodies. [[President clubs]] It's a happy day today!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e243	The President will also ask the Prime Minister to keep an eye on the clock. The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e248	The Prime Minister tells us that it is a prerequisite for a broad compromise. But a prerequisite for reaching a broad compromise is that the state religion and the state church are abolished in more than one paragraph of the Constitution. And as the Prime Minister points out, there is a broad consensus in the Gjønnes Committee to change the requirement that half of the state councils belong to the Norwegian Church. But the Prime Minister is looking very elegantly at the fact that there is also a majority to change the other constitutional paragraphs dealing with the state church and state religion. My question is about the constitutional provisions that are not now being applied for. If you want to repeal the Basic Law § 2 on the State's Public Religion, how can you ask the King to profess a state religion? How can the King be instructed to arrange for worship and other works of faith? The proposal the Labour Party has now made, I think everyone in this Chamber has followed with great interest and effort. We've read it, we've heard it, we've got all the details. I think those who didn't get the details, that's the Prime Minister and the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e255	So I'm still trying to find common solutions, and I'm focusing on what unites us. In fact, I believe that this debate has clarified that there is quite a lot that unites many parties in the Stortinget. We are dependent on dialogue and dialogue between the parties, both because there is a point in itself with broad solutions on these important issues – we have had the Church of State for hundreds of years here in the country – and because it requires constitutional changes. So I'm more concerned with looking for what unites than what divides. In the case of the King, there are two things you can mean by that. One is the King of the Council of State, and there we are prepared to transfer the remaining decision of the King of the Council of State, the appointment of bishops and prosthetics, to other ecclesiastical bodies. I have now referred to several times, and then there are no longer any decisions to be taken by the Church Council of State. The second thing about the king is whether the king should have a duty of confession. Well, in Sweden it is said that the Church of State has been dissolved, but the King is still to confess to the Evangelical Lutheran faith. [[The President clubs]] For me, it just shows that what you mean by the state church can vary a little bit. [[President clubs]] That's why there's no need for more types of paragraphs than the one we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e266	Ola T. Lånk – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e269	The opinion of the Workers' Party central government has created a lot of confusion, and I want to give Prime Minister Stoltenberg another chance to clarify what the Workers' Party and central government really mean. The question arises as to whether, in the future, the Norwegian Church will continue to be governed by some government councils, possibly one, or whether the last remainder of the decision-making authority will be transferred to the Church itself. The central government has done this depending on whether the Church becomes more democratic. But the question is what the Workers' Party means by democracy. Is it to understand that one should wait until all the democratic bodies, i.e. a transitional period, are put in place, or should one wait until the church elections that achieve a specific objective have been opened up, and possibly what objective? So the question is: are we to wait until we have the structure of the Church in place – i.e. a transitional arrangement – in dialogue with the Church, as Prime Minister Stoltenberg invites, or are we going to wait for a much greater upturn in church elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e280	In Sweden, this was done by transferring the last decisions to the Church itself — as some say — not in the Church Council, when a church law was in place that ensured significantly greater participation, representativeness, in church elections. I'm not saying we're going to copy Sweden, but I'm just saying that you also had this connection there. What we're saying at point 3, which I think is very clear, is: ‘Where the legitimacy and representativeness of internally elected church bodies is ensured, any decision — including the appointment of bishops and prosthetics — may be taken by those bodies. Until such time as this is achieved, final appointments shall continue to be made by the Church Council of State.’.» I think it's very clear. So you ask, what exactly is meant by church democracy? We don't want to dictate it. We say that we want dialogue with the Church about it, and not only with the Church, but also with the Christian People's Party. Instead of now creating greater contradictions than that is the basis for, I think you have to welcome this, because here there is a basis for further dialogue. We don't have to dictate. We're going to talk to other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e292	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e296	A dialogue requires inter alia: that you acknowledge your dialogue partners that you have been involved in the documents – I have done so on behalf of the Left – and that you also acknowledge to them what they are saying. Then there are two basic conditions to approach a solution: point 1 is that the State ceases to have an official state religion. Point 2 is that the Church is released. Then you can't keep the constitution where the Church is to have a state supremacy. You cannot keep regulations that are almost such that you have to protect the Church from yourself, in the utmost sense – if that is what you mean. Personally, I've been a churchman all my life. It is not that you have to jump around to find a support contact in the Norwegian working party so that I can be protected from suspected darkers. We're currently sitting with a bishop's council in Oslo that shows that it can handle things, and it's directly chosen. If the Prime Minister – and the party leader – wants to enter into dialogue, there are two pillars: the Constitution must be changed in relation to the state religion, and the Church must be set free. Is the Prime Minister willing to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e303	First, I would like to stress that I am concerned with showing respect for everyone involved in the debate. Secondly, I would say that there is a broad consensus that we should no longer have an official state religion. The State shall include all, including those who have other faiths. As for the question of setting the Church free, it's a little dependent on what you mean by that. The vast majority of Norwegian parties and the large majority of the Gjønnes Committee were for their own church law for the Norwegian Church, not for other religious communities. This means that there is a broad consensus that the Norwegian Church, the Evangelical Lutheran Church, should have a special position in Norwegian society. It is based on the position, the history and the position of the Church. If the question of setting the Church free means that it should be treated in the same way as any other religious community, very few people believe it. But the question is, what kind of paragraphs are we going to have about the Norwegian Church? Are they to be in a separate church law, or are they to be enshrined in the Constitution? These are questions I think we should discuss. We have pointed out some important principles here, which at least means a freer position for the Church.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e312	Anders Anundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e315	I think the prime minister answers a little strangely. As far as I know, there are three different opinions in the government. It seems now that the Prime Minister has already decided what is the Government's policy, so I'm glad I don't belong to a couple of the other parties in the Government – also for other reasons, of course. The working party model is neither a divorce between the State and the Church nor a continued marriage. At best, there may be some kind of separation time. There's some kind of middle model that doesn't go one way or another. When the Prime Minister says he wants to listen to the people, I am most concerned about whether the Prime Minister will then consider actually listening to the people through a referendum in connection with the municipal elections for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e324	I clarified in the introduction what was the further process. It is for the Workers' Party to deal with this at its national meeting. Then the government is going to discuss it, and there are the different parties that have different positions in the state-church question. It is also the case here that the Government has to cooperate with other parties, because you need a two-thirds majority to make changes. I believe that this matter has not been resolved in the Soria Moria declaration. It's one thing that we've always made it clear that we're going to have a hearing, have a process. Now we're in part of that process. The Labour Party must then, like other parties, clarify its basis, but it is not a dictatorship. It is not an inevitable ultimatum, but it is a basis for further dialogue. What I think this debate shows is that this question is not about yes or no to a state church. This debate shows that it is about many different paragraphs and a separate church law, and it is about how it should be formulated. Then you can't ask a question about yes or no to a state church, because the question is simply significantly more complex than that. That's why it's hard to make use of a referendum, as well as that we need unifying solutions. Referendums contribute more to division and strife.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e333	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e336	Let me go over to a slightly more secular question. In the autumn of 2002, Jens Stoltenberg was in opposition, and the Right was in government. At that time Stoltenberg was concerned about and worried that the interest rate was too high. That interest had become so high when he was prime minister, he was a little less concerned about, but when he came into opposition, he was very concerned that the Right in Government had the opportunity and responsibility to reduce interest rates. In the 2003 budget, the Labour Party proposed slightly less oil money use than the government proposed. Stoltenberg argued in a chronicle in the VG on 5 December 2002 with – and I will quote the verb – the following: ‘The working batch uses less oil money than the government batches. It contributes to lower interest rates, lower exchange rates and job security.» In retrospect, it has turned out that the accusation that the then government did not do enough for the interest rate was incorrect. The interest rate fell rapidly, down to a level that it had not been at before – a record low level. I will not criticise Stoltenberg for his efforts to bring down interest in the autumn of 2002. The intentions were good. He is right that every sitting government has a responsibility to facilitate a low interest rate. The problem with Stoltenberg is that now the same thing that happened the last time Stoltenberg was prime minister: the interest rate is rising rapidly, and it is rising a lot. And although everyone would expect it to rise somewhat, because it had been at a record low level, it is rising faster than both the experts and the Bank of Norway predicted. It worries many young families and businesses. A family of 1.5 million. kr in loans, receives annual interest costs of NOK 32 000, if the forecasts of the Bank of Norway so turn up. My question to the Prime Minister is simple and straightforward: does he mean what he meant in opposition, namely that the government has to assume a responsibility to facilitate lower interest rates, and that government policy actually affects the level of interest rates? And what will he do with that in the budgets that come?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e352	I believe that the government of course has a responsibility for the level of interest in a country, and what this government is doing to help keep interest rates down and avoid too high an increase in interest rates, there are several things. The most important thing is that we conduct a responsible budgetary policy, not spend too much money. The second is that through cooperation with the social partners – income policy cooperation – we help to keep costs growth down. In both areas, the Government has shown responsibilities, including: through the budget we have adopted, and with the social partners, through the income statement we have had. So I noticed that the Right has opened up to spend much more money. In an interview with the publication «Monday Monday» This is what is meant by the publication Monday morning. opened the Right to go significantly further in money use in order to manage cooperation with the Progress Party. In the case of interest rate forecasts, the situation is that in its inflation report in March 2005, i.e. before the roll-out election, Norway’s Bank pointed out that we had a period of abnormally low interest rates in Norway and that we had to be prepared for the return on interest rates to a more normal level. What they said was 3 and 1/4 pst. interest at the end of 2006 and 5 pst. interest rate in 2008. That is what Norway’s Bank predicted in March 2005 – when we had a different government, and before the elections. That's about the rate range that interest rates have now followed. So it's a trend in interest rates that was taken into account under the previous government, which is now followed, and which is the result of having had a few years at very low interest rates. Now there is a high growth in the economy and a shortage of labour, and then the interest rate is moving back to a more normal level, as was foreseen by the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e367	The right has not opened to use more oil money. The Prime Minister can take it easy. But that's how the interest rate path has been adjusted up at least twice since the last government. So that means that today's government's economic policy is helping to speed up interest rates. We also have interest increases because interest rates are rising abroad, but now interest rates are increasing faster in Norway, and we have separated teams with our partners in terms of interest rates from the countries around us. This government produced a budget in the harvest which it itself considered to be expansive, despite the fact that we were on the way to a top economic situation when it came to full employment, among other things. Then my question is, what do you want to do in the budget? What we have said is that we need to improve access to labour and have made concrete proposals on this. We've said that you have to increase tax deductions for private savings, not remove them, as the government has done, because then you withdraw purchasing power from people. Then we must have tighter government budgets in the years to come. So we can't fulfill all kinds of election vows that were given in the previous election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e376	First, I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that Erna Solberg makes it quite clear that the impression that was made in «Monday» is not correct, and that you do not open up an irresponsible use of money. Then the next question is, how are you going to cooperate with the Progress Party? But she can answer that another time. When it comes to what we're going to do to keep interest rates down, it's quite right what Solberg says, that access to labour is important. This is why it is very good – and it has also helped to strengthen the Norwegian economy – that in 2006 we have ever had the largest employment growth: 77 000 more in jobs. So the labour supply has been impressive in the last year. We will do more to increase access to labour, including: through the major welfare reforms. Qualification programmes for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance are aimed at increasing the number of people employed. The entire pension reform aims to increase the number of people at work, including: by making it possible to receive a pension and work as much as you like next door. Then it will be easier to combine work and social security. So we're going to increase labour supply. It is an important contribution to strengthening the Norwegian economy and keeping interest rates down.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e383	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e387	I do not know what impression the Right has made in «Monday Monday», but I know at least what impression they made in Monday morning. That's the case. When the Stoltenberg I government joined in March 2000, the interest rate was, in fact, 5.5 pst. When the government of Stoltenberg left in October 2001, the interest rate was 7 p.m., an increase throughout that period the Prime Minister was Prime Minister last time. Now the interest rate has gone up by 1.75 pst. during that period the responsibility of the Stoltenberg II Government has been so great. The Minister of Finance also warns that it must be assumed that interest rates will continue to rise to a so-called normal level. The questions are: has this government thought passively to look at the increased interest burden that most people now experience? When the Minister of Finance announces that interest rates will continue to rise — to a so-called normal level — it may be interesting to know what the Prime Minister himself thinks a so-called normal level is actually.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e396	Everyone knows that interest rates in Norway depend on a lot of circumstances. Some of those conditions can be addressed by the Government, such as: labour supply. We're doing a lot of work and we've got more people working than ever before. Budgetary policy affects interest rates. We have a responsible budgetary policy. Income policy affects interest rates. We cooperate with the parties on responsible income settlement. So there's some relationship the government can't do anything about, like, the level of interest rates in other countries. When it comes up internationally, it also helps to increase Norwegian interest rates. The oil price may affect interest rates. And the growth of the economy – exports, for example. – may affect the level of interest rates in Norway. In terms of the government's ability to influence, we conduct a responsible policy that helps to keep interest rates in check. But there are other factors that help to raise interest rates, for example. they have been at a historically low level compared to the past. The government doesn't have official interest rates. The Bank of Norway will bring it. What they've pointed out is that interest rates of 1 and 2 pst. is historically very low, while an interest rate of 5-6 pst. more is what we've seen more often in history. What I pointed out was that Norway's Bank has followed the interest rate line they posted several years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e403	I am pleased that the Prime Minister says that the Government is taking responsibility for not running the interest rate. Sometimes you can get the impression that you are leaving the Bank of Norway to provide a certain degree of tightness in the Norwegian economy, by getting more frequent interest rate increases than you previously thought. I am sure that the Prime Minister has also noticed that, in order to dampen the economy and get more orderly development, the Central Party's fiscal figure has once again gone into removing the interest rebate on mortgages of a certain size – this, according to the Senter Party, in order to ensure that Community investment funds are released. The Prime Minister himself has shot this down earlier, but if he still wants to do so, what other alternative does the Prime Minister and the Government have to ensure that we get an interest rate and an exchange rate that ensures Norwegian families and Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e412	It is totally inappropriate for this government to introduce interest caps in some form, and the proposal that has been relaunched is not the government's policy, nor will it be the government's policy. To the extent that I've shot it down before, I'd like to shoot it down again. With regard to other measures, I have pointed out some of them already, but let me mention some important ones. These include: that, unlike the previous government, we don't spend many billion dollars on lower taxes, but instead they spend money on elderly care, school and kindergartens. Thus, we ensure that it becomes more well-being without increasing overall demand – we have limited the growth in private demand to clear up space for Community goods. We have made a massive effort to get more people to work, and here we have had a strong growth – we now have 77 000 more people working. It helps to dampen the pressure in the Norwegian economy. We're also doing other things to strengthen the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e425	I'm not going to go into a debate about whether Monday turned out to be a blue day for someone, but I want to go back to the main question about the interest path. One cannot rule out that we are now inside a red-green interest rate path that is higher than the interest rate path we should strictly be in. I'm not saying we are, but I'm saying that it can't be ruled out, given the temperature of our economy. And we all have the worry of the governor hanging in his head, I hope, that 15 pst. of the mortgages are in a critical situation, by being 100 pst. is borrowed from young people who may be in a difficult situation quickly. What does the Government say about this? Well, the finance minister has so far taken note of this, almost as if it were a monthly weather report we get from the central bank. I am pleased that the Prime Minister takes a clearer responsibility for that path of interest in this reply. The measures or activities I have heard he has expressed will not work until we may be a little too far ahead of time and towards a decline. What rapid measures does the Prime Minister see that he can take?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e434	These are things that we're doing on a rolling basis, for example. to pursue a responsible budgetary policy. We present budget documents every harvest, we revise them every spring, and then we always face the choice between spending more money for all good purposes and being responsible. We have been responsible for each crossroads. This government has, for example: Make sure we're at 4 pst. of the pension fund abroad, while the previous government was clearly above that in the case of oil money use. Then we have income statement, where we continuously cooperate with the parties every year, both by main settlement and by interim settlement, to ensure that the interest rate stays down. It's over the last year we've increased employment by 77 000 people. This is due, inter alia, to: an active commitment to labour market measures. This is because we are now setting up NAV offices to meet the criticism that, among other things, has come from the National Audit Office that labour market policy is not effective enough, does not contribute to the social security of people at work if they have the opportunity to do so. So we do things both in the short and long term. That's why we also have a strong growth in the economy and at the same time an interest rate that hasn't run smoothly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e445	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e448	It would have been tempting to continue, but it is even more tempting to go to a new question. It's going to be about what has shaped Norwegian policy so far this year. Now we're in a new situation. LO and – we must say – the country has a new LO leader. What was an internal staff case, and the personal service to which we have all witnessed – a sample has concluded that we almost faced an internal management network in LO – we have both hope and faith. I understand that the Prime Minister has not wanted to go into what is internal to the LO. I've said that earlier from this pulpit. But what remains is a reinforced debate on the relationship between the LO and the Workers' Party – and the government parties too, we have to say. It is, in my opinion, a debate that cannot be parked as an internal matter in the LO or the Workers' Party or the other government parties. This is a debate that concerns the entire political environment and the public debate in our country, because it is about the quality of our democracy. This debate has, as I see it, taken a new turn at Bjørndalen's statement to Dagens Näringsliv – Bjørndalen is known as both a member of the central government and one of the most central federal leaders in the LO. He says that one does not buy for political decisions, and that there must be an end to the threats. That's what I think brings new things into this debate, because the Bjørndalen is also a man on the inside of the LO and the Workers' Party. The challenges that Bjørndalen here presents to the Prime Minister, who is also the head of the Workers' Party, and to the entire political environment, I feel that the Prime Minister has a duty to comment. My question is, what will the Prime Minister do with these claims and the relationship between the Labour Party and LO after this has been brought into the debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e459	Firstly, I am pleased that the representative Sponheim clearly distinguishes between two questions. One is a general debate on the Labour Party's cooperation with the LO, and the other is the staff case handled by the LO. There is an internal personnel case in LO that was the responsibility of LO to handle, and that it was important that I not as Prime Minister or as party leader. Because it would be a mix of roles and tasks if I, outside the LO, went in and meant something about a staff case in the LO. But on the general question, I have a great deal of respect for the representative of Sponheim, and I also respect the fact that the Left opposes the cooperation of the Workers' Party and the LO. I guess the left has been for over 100 years. The working party has been doing it for over 100 years. So it's an honest and straightforward thing. The arguments are probably about the same now as 100 years ago, but we would like to repeat them: we believe that the cooperation between the LO and the Workers' Party has been important for Norway. It has brought about major social reforms. It has produced reforms that have been important for Norwegian employees. And it has been important to create a Norway that is characterized by more community and justice than in very many other societies. We're proud of that. We have also seen in countries like Sweden and Denmark that similar cooperation has produced the same type of social reforms. It's independent organizations, which sometimes also disagree, but we're trying to agree. Because when we agree, we get a greater impact on the values, the goals and the visions that we believe in. We're going to continue to cooperate, because we have common ideas about where social development is going to go. Then the left has other ideas, and we respect that. The left is supported by some of the richest people in Norway for their ideas. We get through democratic processes support from Norwegian employees for our ideas. We are pleased and proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e470	We are told that there are two vitals and speak 100-year-olds who are visiting the Stortinget today! I think that if we had been alone, we could share some thoughts that it's a proud story and important contribution we've both made these 100 years. The serious thing about the statements made by Bjørndalen is that even someone in this debate has started talking about political corruption. I'm not doing that. I believe that we have not put enough things on the table to use such strong words. But it is serious that it is at all brought into the political debate. What this is all about is direct links between a large, strong social actor – a political actor, who says that one is a political actor – and money. We have all witnessed the situation on TV where the Prime Minister and other party leaders get a pat on their shoulders for good political work and a check with them when they leave. It is different from support provided by members and sympathizers and individuals. I think the Prime Minister understands that – if he thinks well about it – presents a challenge for the entire political environment, and I will challenge the Prime Minister to be willing to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e477	First, I would like to say to the representative Sponheim that if he promises to keep it completely to himself, I will trust him today that I believe that the Left has played an important and great role in Norwegian political history, and that the Left has not least played an important role in relation to some important liberal, democratic ideas and also in relation to many social reforms. That is why I believe that the Left should cooperate on the left and not on the right, because it is when the Left cooperates on the left that we get the best solutions in Norwegian policy. Then I believe that, in principle, it is not possible to say that getting financial support through democratic decisions on, for example. a national meeting of a trade union is somewhat more problematic than a rich manager granting money to the Left Party or the Right Party, or the Advance Party for that matter. That Stein Erik Hagen, as one of Norway's richest men, provides support for political parties that want to remove the wealth tax, which he is plagued by, is an honest political stance. There's no corruption in it. But I disagree with that position, and that's why Stein Erik Hagen doesn't support me.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e485	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e488	I just want to say first that there is a very big difference between these so-called rich uncles to which the Prime Minister now refers. They are not in the central governments of the parties and are involved in making decisions about what will become the future policies of the parties. I think the Prime Minister minimizes the relationship that has arisen between the LO and the Workers' Party. So when this government was established, there was an independent point for the Government that LO should be represented at the Prime Minister's office. It looks like corruption when Kjell Bjørndalen also admits that LO has purchased political decisions. It seems very special to many of us that important decisions are taken in the central government of the Workers' Party, where a significant part of LO's management is represented. This happens in enclosed spaces, and it obviously affects the government's policy. That is unfortunate, and I think the Prime Minister should admit that soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e495	Important decisions are taken in the central government of the Workers' Party on what the Workers' Party is supposed to mean, and I believe that the central government of the Advance Party is making important decisions on what the Progress Party should think. Then we go to the government and to the big ones, and we go in for our positions and arguments for them. And then the decisions were taken at the seventh and last part of this room. We don't have any problems with insisting that we, for example. has improved the day-to-day entitlements of the unemployed, which the Progress Party has deteriorated in budgetary agreements with the Bondevik Government. We have no problem saying that we have improved the system for some disadvantages by increasing child supplements in disability. All of them are important requirements from, among other things: LO, which we're proud to have followed up. It has been done in full transparency through processes both in government and here in this room. But the LO and the Workers' Party are independent organisations. We understand our own positions, which we also have examples of lately, among other things. in the discussions on the whole reorganisation of Health South-East, of which the Trade Union was opposed. We did it. There has also been disagreement in relation to the opening time permit. We've done what we think is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e504	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e507	The Prime Minister does not answer the questions asked. The question was about Kjell Bjørndalen's opinion in today's business, where he points out that the LO has been pushing the Workers' Party and that financial support has been linked to political decisions. The Prime Minister now has a historic opportunity to modernise the relationship between the Labour Party and the LO. There is no one who is against the Workers' Party cooperating with the LO. What you're against is that one organization should have a red run into the corridors of power, which don't have the academics, don't have the YS, don't have the UN. We are against the fact that there is too much power on too few hands, and that there is a link between politics and money support. So my question is whether the Prime Minister is now going to clear up the circumstances Kjell Bjørndalen points out in Today's Business, namely that the LO has been pushing the Workers' Party financially to make an impact on its political positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e512	Firstly, I would just like to stress that this government is engaged in at least as good cooperation with employee organisations other than LO, such as UNIO, as the YS, as the previous government had, and that is what we stress. That's why I have to, among other things. Meet Unio tomorrow and discuss with them. So we want to have close and close cooperation with all the social partners and all the employee organisations. Then we have an extra close cooperation with LO, that's absolutely right. But it's not the Government, it's the Workers' Party that takes care of and develops over 100-year-old political cooperation with the LO that we believe has been valuable to the Norwegian community. Kjell Bjørndalen warns against a development he will not see, and I do not want that development either. I agree with Kjell Bjørndalen that that kind of cooperation is going to be between independent organisations, it shouldn't be that you push each other to positions you don't want otherwise. I fully agree with that, and that is why I am proud that the Workers' Party takes its positions on an independent basis, but we do so in dialogue with others because we are committed to bringing together solutions, whether it is a state-church debate or there is a discussion of workers' rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e519	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e522	To get full clarity on this: Bjørndalen is both the head of the Joint Union, he is a member of the LO Secretariat, and he is a central member of the Workers' Party. He is quoted in today’s Business: ‘One does not buy for political decision’. Then I'm going to be very precise in the question: Does the Prime Minister think that Bjørndalen's statements have been taken out of the air?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e527	Kjell Bjørndalen believes that you should not buy for political decisions, and I fully agree with him on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e532	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e535	This weekend, the new Palestinian Assembly government came into place. This might be a step in the right direction. But to get a positive development, there must be an end to violence, and the international community has been clear and clear that ever since Hamas came to power they must meet certain demands. On Saturday, the government sent out a press release that recognized the new assembly government as the first Western country. Norway relies on the political platform of the new government and that the Palestinian authorities will respect concluded agreements, refrain from violence and recognise Israel’s right to exist. The Palestinian Government Declaration does not mention Israel in one word. During the inaugural ceremony this weekend, the Palestinian Prime Minister stated that violence against Israel is acceptable. Then we are amazed that the Norwegian Government can so clearly state that the new government meets the international demands that are made and well-known. One thing is that the Norwegian government is so quick to recognise the new Palestinian government, another thing is the reason, where one believes that the demands of large parts of the world community have been agreed upon are met. What does the Norwegian government know that the rest of the world doesn't know?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e541	We are very confident that what we are doing now contributes to something that is absolutely vital for a peaceful development in the Middle East, and there is stability and less violence in the Palestinian territories. The fact that Fatah and Hamas have managed to reach a collective government is a very important reconciliation process, and we have made it clear all along that if we succeed in this reconciliation, we are prepared to welcome a new government and meet it. I made that clear when I met President Abbas in December, when we were strongly encouraged to move on with the creation of an assembly government – I said that in the meetings with him, and I also said that afterwards to the public. Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre said in his statement in Stortinget on 13 February: ‘Collection management is not yet in place. It shall be established, final agreement shall be reached on the composition of the Government and the principles of Mecca must enter the Government Platform. But we want to send that signal that if this comes into place, normal political and economic relations with the Palestinian self-government authorities will be opened up." And it's crucial that we do what we said, what I said in December to Abbas, and as Gahr Støre has said on various occasions, that when we now see that it's going in the direction that we say that we should respect the agreements that have been concluded, we refer to, among other things. The Oslo Agreement, yes, then it's a step that makes it right to welcome this government, that we've got a assembly government. It has also been expressed by other governments. What we have done, as other governments have not done so far, is to meet, at political level, the Prime Minister, but for example. After all, the US authorities have met the Minister of Finance in the same government. So I think there are many countries that welcome this new government, and I also think several countries are going to meet on a political level.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e551	But now I do not feel that the Prime Minister answers the question of whether the Norwegian Government feels that the requirements here are met. The Palestinian signals are bursting in all directions. Federal Chancellor Angela Merkel, representing the Presidency of the EU, has said that there is an explicit lack of attitude from the Palestinian Assembly to these demands. You haven't seen it. At the same time as they wish to welcome the process, we are committed to the requirements. Would it not have been better for Norway to be together with the EU and the United States to have explicitly met the requirements instead of going alone in the international political arena with an early and hasty recognition of the government before it has been able to prove that it is credible in its views on these important principles?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e556	We do not believe that the requirements are fully met, but we believe what we said in Stortinget, that the Mecca statement gives important signals and takes important steps, among other things. by referring to international agreements. We believe that this is so important – both to refer to the Mecca agreement, where important steps are being taken towards meeting the requirements, and to get this government together – that we are doing what we said in the Storting, namely that when the Mecca declaration is now reflected in the government platform, well, then we are restoring normal political and economic relations with this government. That doesn't mean we agree with all that this government is going to say and mean, but we believe that the Middle East process is better served by talking to them than isolating by not having normal political and economic relations. I also show that other governments have met other government councils in the same government, so there are more people who want to welcome the government. The special thing about Norway is that, at political level, we have met a Prime Minister in a government that many would like to welcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e563	In order to answer one more main question, the number of follow-up questions is limited to two – first by Jan Petersen and then by Ingreigt S. Sørfönn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e566	I have no doubt that the Palestinian Assembly government is an important step forward. But it is also important to stress what the Prime Minister said that they are not promoted in relation to the requirements promoted by the international community. We all agree that there will be no peace in the Middle East until the Palestinian government acts according to the demands of the international community. Therefore, it is important that the Government continues to put considerable pressure on the Palestinians to ensure that Hamas also goes the long way that Fatah has gone. I have probably been in doubt if the government has not now been very quick, and if you should not have met others, for example. the Minister of Finance. There is a big difference between meeting the finance minister and a Hamas minister – but now let it go. What I'm concerned about is that it's the international press that has led us to come as far as we've now come. That means it's important to stick together, even though not everyone has to do the same thing at the same time. My question is, can the Prime Minister assure that what the Government has now done is part of a coordinated race in the international community?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e577	What I can assure you is that what we are doing now is part of what we have been told to do all the time – as I said to President Abbas last December, as Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre has said in the statement here in Stortinget, without creating any special reactions requiring the Mecca agreement to be reflected in the government platform. It does. And then we do what we said we should: we resume normal political and economic relations. I can also assure you that many countries are very well informed about this. Gahr Støre is nice to call around. He often calls and has informed many foreign ministers about what we have done, and it has been accepted with respect that Norway plays the role we are now doing. Otherwise, I would say that we believe that the best way to put pressure on the Palestinians now is to talk to them. That's what we're doing, for example. in the conversations Raymond Johansen had. That's how we talked to Yassir Arafat. I remember Knut Frydenlund voting for Arafat to meet in the UN, and met with massive criticism. But it was right that Arafat met in the United Nations, because it provided the basis for a dialogue. Gro Harlem Brundtland met Yassir Arafat. That was massive criticism, but it was important for the dialogue. And then the PLO recognized Israel.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e586	I have two questions for the Prime Minister. Firstly, does he believe that the international pressure on the Palestinian government – that is, these three demands – has led us to what we are today? If he believes that it is this pressure that has led us to where we are and given basis for optimism, why has the Norwegian government changed its strategy and abandoned this pressure and accepted the Palestinian Assembly before accepting Israel's more solar right to exist, renounced power and terror and accepted previously concluded agreements? I feel that there is a slight inconsistency in this if the answer to the first question is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e595	As I have tried to clarify in previous answers, the government does exactly what it announced it was going to do. What is good is that we are following a line that we have declared in advance, both to Abbas before Christmas last year and quite clearly in the statement to the Foreign Minister here in Stortinget, where it was shown that the Mecca declaration was important. If reference to it came into the government platform, we would resume normal economic and political relations. That's what the Foreign Minister said on 13 February in Stortinget, and that's what's now going on. So let's stress that the dialogue we're going to have then, we're going to use to put pressure on the Palestinians to ensure that they get control of the Palestinian territories, stop the launch of missiles from Palestinian territories, release the Israeli Corporal who is in captivity, and contribute to peaceful development. And then we will continue to repeat the three main requirements, on the recognition of Israel, on refraining from violence and on respecting internationally agreed agreements. But we think that dialogue is better now than isolation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e602	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e605	SV shall now have national meetings until the weekend. When SV had a national meeting in advance of the 2005 Grand Prix, the current Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal promised that a new government in which SV is involved would have doubled our research effort in four years. The Workers' Party is not as positive to research, so the commitment made by SV to the voters in advance was reworded after the elections to a commitment to increase the allocation of basic research, to higher education and to follow up the objectives set by the Research Communication in 2005 to raise the research effort to 3 pst. GDP. But don't sail this promise the government has managed to keep. What they have so far been able to do is cut transfers to higher education and research. The 2007 research budget is so poor that the responsible Council of State has called it a breakwater. The government has now started working on the budget for next year, and the Prime Minister has then willingly told the press what the areas of activity are for the Government. Research and higher education were not among the themes mentioned. I don't expect the Prime Minister here to tell you what the budget for 2008 is going to look like, but since he could tell the press what were the most important areas of activity, it might be possible to tell the Stortinget why research wasn't mentioned among the bet areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e618	The government has increased the appropriations for research. They increased by 900 million. kr in the year's budget, so we're now spending more money on research than we did under the previous government. It is absolutely right that we are not in line with the objectives we have set in the Soria Moria declaration, but there are many other areas where we have not achieved goals in two years either. We're going to continue to work to reach those goals. It is also the case that the research objective we have is a combination of public and private research, so it is also important to stimulate research by private companies. So I also want to say to the Right one thing that I'm actually concerned about – and that's in line with what the Right had as slogans, «More for the money» – and that's that I think that in addition to how much money we spend on research, it would also be wise if the Right Party, the Workers' Party and other good forces thought through the quality of the research. Because I'm actually concerned that we're not just going to have a goal of how much money we spend on research, but also that we're going to get good research again. Some of the research issues, as in many other areas, are skilled labour. Not many people with doctoral degrees are unemployed in Norway. Then we're going to research more, maybe the academic workforce needs to be taken from other sectors. It's one of the challenges in research. So we're too much money for research, but we're also for more quality and better organized research. We've deliberately not explained what's coming next year's state budget, simply because it's not finished, but I said that environment will be a big winner. This may include, inter alia: include research into environmental technologies. One of the things we put a lot of effort into is developing more environmentally friendly technology, and then research is an important contribution. Work is something that this government will invest in, and research and development is also part of a strategy for work. So when you're at the overall level, it's easy to connect many themes to research. We'll have to wait in suspense until the state budget comes and see how it's expressed in dollars and cents.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e630	At least you can be sure that the government doesn't get right in terms of the quality of the research, I think all the parties on the Storting are agreed on is important, but that's not what's going on here. The theme here is that the Government in one breath calls the 2007 budget for research and higher education both the biggest effort we've ever seen and a rest cutting. It's a rhetorical exercise for me that should be quite difficult. Reality isn't what the council says, that it was 900 million. kr in increase in research for 2007. The reality is that it was the nominal number, while the real decline is at 159 million. kr. In addition, 275 million were cut. kr for higher education – those who will train those who will become researchers once in the future. NIFU STEP has estimated that we need to increase approximately. DKK 2.5 billion for research every year until 2010 to achieve the target of 3 pst. research efforts. How is the Government supposed to achieve this goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e637	We're going to present state budgets, and then there's a stake in the different areas. If we're going to get more money for research, we're going to have to give more money for research – that's what it's all about. But I tried to say that in addition to giving money, I believe it's about being concerned about the content and quality of the research. The crucial thing is what we get out of it, not how much money we spend. We're going to be busy both spending more money and getting more quality for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e642	The President allows two follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e645	You have to be careful when you're talking about numbers. When the Prime Minister says that the government has increased the research budget by 900 million. kr, there is a nominal growth, including the return from the Research Fund. If you include the income from the Research Fund, the real increase is well below 300 million. kr. If you take your return away, it's a real downfall. When the 3 pst goal was adopted, the research share was 1.71 pst. GDP. Today it's under 1.5 pst. This shows that this government does not bet on research. Fortunately, there are some private donors who are now giving money to some research institutions and universities, and we have a gift-enhancing scheme that helps the state to add up to 25 pst. to the institution. It's a good arrangement. Last year, the government cut 100 million. kr i revised because the gifts from private donors were larger than budgeted. Are we at risk of the Government also proposing this time in the revised proposal to cut the research budget to finance the gift-enhancing scheme, which also means research?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e656	Firstly, I am pleased that the representative confirms that there has been a real increase. Because it is clear that what we grant from the Research Fund – or the return of the Research Fund – is there for us to increase the research appropriations. Of course it has to be taken into account. That's the money that comes from the Research Fund, too. With the funding from the Research Fund – or the return of the Research Fund – it is a real increase in research funding in 2007. That means in 2007 we spend more money than ever before on research. To present it as a very serious setback when it actually becomes more research in 2007, I believe it is a misrepresentation. I'm glad the representative doesn't make it like this. Then we have a problem with the Research Council, and that is that there are some unused funds there. It's quite a lot of money – I mean remember that it's billions, that's at least a lot of unused money. It just underlines what I was about, that in addition to being concerned about how we're going to get more money for research, we also have to be concerned about how we organize and conduct research. One problem is simply access to skilled labour to research. In the case of gifts, we're going to follow the legislation and what we did last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e665	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e668	It is true that a joint research Norway and all the business organisations indicated that what the government is doing in terms of research is failing everything it has said in advance. But let me be forward-looking. Let's assume that research is absolutely crucial for the future both to secure our democracy and to ensure value creation. Then there is something that is absolutely crucial in addition to the appropriations – I am not going to ask the Prime Minister to comment on it – and that is for example. that you have a systematic and good recruitment of new people, called scholarship and postdoc positions. In the budget we have for the current year, this was set to zero. It is also necessary to renew scientific equipment – we have a lag of several billion. So if there's to be serious about this from the Government, there has to be a stepping up that is binding both in terms of scholarship positions and scientific equipment, and it has to be that it stands to give something to our excellent people who are represented in many areas. Can the Prime Minister confirm that we are getting a systematic escalation of scholarship positions, and that we are getting a systematic and heavy effort to recover from necessary scientific equipment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e677	The important thing is that we spend more money on research now than last year and under the previous government. There's been more money for research. Then I realize that many people want even more money for research. When we didn't increase even more, but only increased something, it's because in the 2007 budget we chose to do a huge deal in relation to elderly care, school, kindergartens and not least in relation to following up the transport plan, to grant what we had promised to do to road and rail. So there was room to spend more money on research, but not as much as many people might have wanted. Now we're working on the 2008 budget, and then we're going to do the same kind of priorities and choices between many good purposes. We're busy finding more money for research, but we're also busy finding more money for many other good purposes. That balance is in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e682	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e688	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed changes to today's Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Defence, was answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Defence, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered in response to question 13, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 5, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is answered by the Minister for Industry and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has been away. Question 6, from the representative Torbjørn Hansen to the Minister for Food and Trade, is raised by the representative Siri A. Meling. Question 14, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is raised by the representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e708	I have a question for the Minister of Finance: «Accruals to accounting are an important reintroduction phase when health is not in the original profession. Many reintroduction companies carry out such training and activities as part of the total activity. The credit supervision now requires the chief executive of the companies to be authorised as accounting officer in order to make such offers and will no longer grant exemptions. What will the Council of State do to enable reintroduction companies to continue such training and activities without all senior executives having to be authorised accountants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e717	The Accounting Act was amended in June 2006 on a proposal from Ot.prp. No 44 for 2005-2006. In the proposition, it was among other things. proposed to continue the requirement that the Executive Director be an authorised accounting officer. At the same time, an access was introduced for the credit supervision to lay down rules on exemptions from the requirement for the Executive Director to be an authorised accounting officer. In the proposition, the Ministry stressed that, in the light of the experience gained from the supervision of accounting companies, it would be a concern to remove the requirement that an accounting company should have an accounting officer. On the other hand, emphasis was placed on the fact that developments towards increasingly large units in the accounting industry are likely to reinforce the need to distinguish the functions of the Executive Director and the professional manager of some accounting companies, and that only the professional manager is authorised to account for them. The Financial Committee unanimously agreed to this proposal at the end of the year. O. No 44 for 2005-2006. The credit supervision shall take into account in the supervisory process the reasons behind the authorisation system and the prudential aspects. The authorisation scheme for accountants shall ensure the users of accounting services a satisfactory professional level for the providers of such services. The regulation shall also safeguard the public interest in the quality of accounting information, including: to detect and complicate tax evasion and other financial crime. The requirement for accounting companies to have an authorised accounting officer as the Executive Director shall ensure that the management of the company has an adequate responsibility for and influence over the accounting activity. Before the amendments to the laws in 2006, the Credit Authority had practised the requirement for the Executive Director to be an authorised accounting officer, so that a professional manager of the accounting activities was sufficient to account for the authorised accounting officer. In the light of negative experience from supervisory work, credit supervision was in the process of tightening up this practice, but awaited the assessment of the issue in the statutory audit. The credit supervision adopted in June 2006 amendments to the accounting regulation which entered into force at the same time as the amendments to the law. An exception to the requirement that the Executive Director be an authorised accountant for large accounting companies has been made under the Regulation. This prerequisite is inter alia: that the company has no business other than accounting, has an authorised accounting officer and that the professional manager is employed in the company. For these it is not necessary to apply for a derogation. Others who wish to operate as an accounting company without having an Executive Director authorised as accounting officer may apply to the Credit Authority for a derogation to that effect. Such derogation may be granted in exceptional cases. In order to avoid a build-up of the regulatory framework, the Credit Authority has notified strict dispensation practices. The Accounting Act must be followed by all those who undertake to keep accounts for others in industry. It also applies to recovery agencies, which in that case must have the authorisation of the credit supervision and meet the requirements of the Executive Director and other requirements. Accompanying entities that do not keep accounts for others may conduct accounting training as part of their business without having to have an authorised accounting officer. The credit supervision by letter dated 20 February of this year attributed to all authorised accounting companies that did not comply with the requirement of an authorised accounting officer as the Executive Director. Those companies were granted a deadline of 30 June 2007 to comply with this requirement. The credit supervision has informed that, in that connection, they received an application from a large recovery firm for a derogation from the requirement that the Executive Director be authorised to account for it at the beginning of March. This application is still pending under the credit supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e741	I am somewhat disappointed that the Minister of Finance cannot go any further in saying that management companies are special cases in relation to what we dealt with when we had the Accounting Act up in the Financial Committee. There has been a lot of talk about access to labour and qualifying those who are outside today in the Question Time. This accounting work is particularly important. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance, when she says that the application is still pending: does that mean that one will look specifically at the application to which she referred – which is probably from Norservice, a company, which is a very large company in Trondheim – in relation to the letter sent by the Credit Authority, that this applies to everyone, without exception?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e748	Now I am not going to advance what is being handled by the Credit Authority on this matter. But I just want to remember what I was in my answer. First, this amendment was unanimous in Stortinget. It happened on the basis of the experience we had, and the experience of the Credit Authority from the supervisory work, showed that it was necessary to raise the threshold. This means, in principle, that if reinsurance undertakings are to provide accounting services to others, they must be subject to the same professional quality requirements as other accountants. But there are some possibilities for adaptation for reintroduction companies to this requirement. It would be that if they were to take orders from others and operate accounting services for them, it could also be considered whether it is appropriate to separate that business from that business of their own company. You can train in any case, and that's important. This is an area where it is important to reinvigorate. We need this type of labour, and we need to balance that with regard to the supervisory work that is also extremely important to set a high standard in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e755	I am pleased that we agree that this is an important area of training. With regard to the consensus in the Stortinget when the law was implemented, it is clear that the focus was on tax evasion and the kind of things that the Minister of Finance has explained, but this with reintroduction companies, qualification for work, was not a topic. If this had been brought in that time, I am pretty sure that the Storting would have formulated the law in such a way that the regulations of the Credit Authority would have had to take account of that later. That is why I choose to interpret the Minister of Finance's answer today so that the necessary exemptions will be granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e762	The representative Fleet can't interpret me any place at all. This application is for the treatment of the Credit Authority, and I'm waiting for what they're coming up with and what conclusion they're drawing from it. But I would like to believe that the representative fleet agrees with me that we have to be able to balance two considerations. One is the requirement for the supervisory work that is very important in relation to the standard we're talking about, in relation to the tax system and all of this, while at the same time being able to get a good capacity in terms of re-routing, for example. auditors. We have to be able to balance those considerations with each other, and that's what we have to do when dealing with these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e771	I have the following questions for the Minister of Finance: ‘The Council of State has stated that if she does not reach the goal of full child care coverage by 2008, ‘you have rid of me’. Now it seems that the goal of full kindergarten coverage is not being achieved, among other things. due to a lack of capacity in the construction industry. At the same time, the government is the largest purchaser of construction services in Norway and acts on such services annually for about one year. $80 billion. Does the State Council have any contact with the construction industry to determine whether they have the capacity to build before the Ministry plans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e780	I have noticed that there are certain hopes in the Right and in the Advance Party and in others that I consider withdrawing in the middle of this great period. I just have to make a contribution to disappointment immediately. It was quite clear also in the 2005 election campaign that I have a high record in implementing the kindergarten reform that the majority of Stortings agreed on and finally all the parties, but I will not assess how well we have succeeded until we get to 2009 and will look back and see what we have actually achieved. So the question of the lack of capacity in the construction industry. Kindergarten development is, as you know, a municipal responsibility, and it is the municipalities themselves who estimate the need for nursery facilities and lay down local plans for the development and development of the nursery facilities. Overview of the construction market situation is, of course, an important part of good municipal planning. And here there will be great variations around the country as to what kind of capacity it is. The municipalities report annually on 20 September data on children in kindergarten and on waiting lists and their plans for further development to the Ministry of Knowledge. This report provides the basis for the government’s budgetary planning. The government has so far made a good deal of plans. The deviation has been that the capacity growth seems to have become stronger than expected. Preliminary KOSTRA figures show that a total of 11,500 more children were accommodated in kindergarten last year, and about 16,100 more full-time seats were created. The reason why these figures are not correct is that part-time is up to full-time, and therefore more full-time places need to be built. It's actually higher than the size of the government's bet, 10,500 more children and 13,500 full-time seats. The government does not feel that the municipalities exceed our estimate, as problematic in such an important matter. On the contrary – The government and I are very pleased that we are meeting the goals we have set ourselves. That means there's a national effort going on to get full babysitting. The Ministry of Knowledge is in close dialogue with municipalities on challenges on the road to the goal of full childcare during 2007. Several municipalities, especially the metropolitan municipalities, have given feedback that pressure in the construction industry contributes to delays. The government is doing something about this. Among other things, we have establish a separate grant for permanent nursery places in temporary accommodation. This enables municipalities that have many children in queue for a nursery place to support the development of kindergartens and thus contribute to the provision of good childcare facilities to more children as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e791	The right shares the Council of State's joy at the construction of many new kindergartens. However, we do not share the pleasure of the Council of State to remain in the Council of State. We would have liked the Council of State to follow up on its own promises both from the election campaign and later on, that words should stand still, and that promises should be fulfilled – if not “you’re getting rid of me.” It is particularly felt that the Government, on the one hand, plans for ever-new reforms and makes many promises, but at the same time does not have systematic contact with those who possess the skills and who are actually going to realise the promises of, among other things. the Minister of Finance. So my follow-up question to the Minister of Finance is: Will the Council of State initiate a more systematic dialogue with the construction industry to ensure greater predictability, and not least to ensure that there is consistency between her and her own government's promises and what the industry is actually able to achieve?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e798	Firstly, I would like to repeat that I have never said at any time that I would assess my position in the middle of a growing period or a government period, and I will take that assessment in 2009, and it will depend on how well we succeed in implementing the kindergarten reform. Then I would like to remind the representative of Skovholt Gitmark that the whole Stortinget was behind. The situation of the Bondevik I government was that 2000–3 000–4 000 new kindergartens were built per year. years. We're in the vicinity of tidalizing this number in 2007. So it's a powerful, massive bet. We spend NOK 6.4 billion more on the kindergarten sector than the government we took over after. So here's the big deal. The municipalities are primarily responsible for identifying the capacity they have to build kindergartens. It is also the responsibility of municipalities to build kindergartens. What we have to do from the state is make sure that we put up money. It is not on money – it is earmarked for both investments and operations. Of course, in the broad picture, we also need to refer to other reforms to ensure that there is capacity to implement the kindergarten reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e809	I believe that the Council of State does not answer the real question: how can she, as Minister of Finance, ensure that there is a dialogue between politicians and the government itself, and on the other hand, the construction industry, and that there is more consistency between the government's promises and the industry's own ability to expand? Once again, I want the Council of State to answer that question. Perhaps she could also comment on whether it would not make sense to split up the Ministry of Finance's own name for construction, precisely because in the construction sector there is currently a slowdown, while in the construction sector there is considerable capacity. It can be followed up further by using more government funds on, for example: road and rail to make use of the capacity available in the construction industry – I can mention, as a southerner, of course, the four-field road between Oslo and Stavanger, among others. – or by ensuring that it becomes more of a facility than other major public building projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e816	Of course, we have a national overview of the capacity. The representative Gitmark is right that we need to see constructions together, but we're trying to go more into the individual areas to form a better image. For the time being, we have no professional point of view to make a sharp distinction and say that in the construction industry there is overheating, while in the construction industry there is a large amount of free capacity. With regard to expansion projects in the kindergarten sector, I would say that there are so many national variations – from areas with pressure to areas with free capacity – that this task must be undertaken by municipalities. They should also ensure that they give priority to what a broad political majority is behind, namely that the development of kindergartens should take precedence over other high-priority tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e829	‘The situation in Zimbabwe appears to be going from bad to worse. The opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai is severely abused by the police, with a violation of the skull as a result. The Norwegian government, like many others, has condemned what has happened. What opportunities does the Minister of Foreign Affairs see for Norway, in cooperation with other countries and international organisations, to better influence the unfortunate situation in Zimbabwe?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e836	I would like to thank you for the question from the representative Syversen. I agree with him that the situation in Zimbabwe seems 'to go from bad to worse'. Recent events in the country are alarming and outrageous. Let this be clear: violence and violence against civil and political opposition leaders are totally unacceptable. There is no doubt about the specific responsibility of the authorities for this situation and in this case. I have just had the opportunity to discuss various aspects of the situation in Zimbabwe with my Nordic colleagues and several African colleagues at the Nordic-African Foreign Minister's meeting here in Oslo on Monday and Tuesday. There is full agreement on the seriousness of the situation and on the need to do something to stop the negative development. And more importantly, we all agree that a solution needs to be driven forward, led by Africa and the African countries themselves. I have received clear signals that the African countries will strengthen their efforts to bring about a change. We in Norway have stated that we are ready to assist all attempts to find a solution to the crisis in the country. In the past, I have pointed out that a solution to the crisis in Zimbabwe must be based on a national agreement on the future, i.e. on internal processes in Zimbabwe. It is the responsibility of the authorities to do so. The issue of extended sanctions against Zimbabwe, in addition to targeted sanctions against the leaders of the regime, has been considered. This is basically a very complicated question, where it is not given in advance that you achieve the desired effects. The scepticism of African countries towards this instrument is significant. It is difficult to avoid such instruments hitting the poor population hardest, and they will be able to work against their purpose by, among other things. to strengthen President Mugabe’s claim that the country is facing a ‘conspiracy from the West’. Furthermore, Zimbabwe’s neighbouring country pointed out that they too are being harmed by such sanctions. I am more concerned about looking for opportunities to create a framework and contribute to political dialogue between the political parties in Zimbabwe. A solution to the crisis can only be found internally in this country. Some suggest that a solution can be ‘forced’ from the outside. For a long time, Norway has supported forces working for such a national dialogue. In particular, I can mention the broad church initiative called ‘The Zimbabwe we want’ – which the representative is probably familiar with – that has brought the various parties together in a kind of dialogue. We will continue to support such forces, knowing that their task is very demanding. In addition to this, what can happen within ZANU-PF, the party of President Mugabe, is also important in the future. In my view, recent events show that the regime is weakened, and that the regime has been further weakened as a result of the violations against the opposition. The statements of the Presidencies of the African Union, of President John Kufour of Ghana, of the President of the AU Commission, Alpha Oumar Konaré, and of South Africa undoubtedly contribute to weakening the legitimacy of the regime. It is important that Tanzania’s President, Kikwete, who heads the SADEC’s political, defence and security body, engage to find a solution. The political crisis in the country — let me conclude with it — is, of course, also a social and economic crisis that has brought large sections of the population into poverty and great distress. Unemployment is 80 pst, an almost unfathomable number. Inflation exceeds 1600 pst, even more incomprehensible, and continues to accelerate. The HIV/AIDS situation is among the most serious in all of Africa – and thus worldwide – and since the release in 1980 life expectancy has dropped from 60 years to about 35 years today. The population of Zimbabwe will need extensive international assistance if it is to be able to work out of the crisis. This is an area in which the international community can contribute, by showing what opportunities open up to it if political reforms are implemented. In this work among donors and among the international community, Norway will also engage actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e864	There was no evocative image of the Minister of Foreign Affairs drawn from the situation in South Africa. We also received new messages today that the food shortage is more precarious than previously reported. I agree that the hope might be a change internally. I guess we see some signs that inside the government party it might now seem to be a never-ending uprising. I want to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how he views the initiative taken by the United Kingdom to bring the issue and the latest events to the United Nations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e871	The overall objective is to contribute to political reforms in Zimbabwe. We will then have to look at the tools that can help to achieve that goal. There is no doubt that there is every reason to criticise the Zimbabwean authorities for human rights violations. At the same time, it is unlikely – and that impression was given to me now in the meeting with ten African colleagues – that an opinion on Zimbabwe will have a majority in the UN Human Rights Council, and all African countries are likely to vote against it. The starting point for a solution must, as I said, be in Africa. At the moment, I think it is right to give the African leaders the best possible prerequisites for achieving such a solution. We are actively participating in the dialogues with the Special Rapporteurs and will address the issue of the human rights situation in Zimbabwe. We will consider carefully, strategically, how we can best influence this situation in forums like the Human Rights Council. The United Kingdom is historically in a special situation in Zimbabwe. There have been examples of the fact that every time the United Kingdom is mentioned, Mugabe gets a good argument for not agreeing to anything. We're going to be there when the British authorities later this week have a donor meeting in London to discuss the strategy further, and Norway will take an active part there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e882	I do not at all disagree with the assessments made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. A key point in his first answer was to strengthen the internal possibilities for change. The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned in particular the group ‘The Zimbabwe we want’. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see any possibility that Norway can thus further contribute to a changed situation in Zimbabwe?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e887	I get reports from Norway's ambassador in Zimbabwe about development. We're closely engaged. It's hard to be a missionary in Zimbabwe these days. It's on the border of direct threats from government against diplomatic personnel, so it's a demanding task. We have here, as in many other places, a good network of civil society in Zimbabwe. I heard today on the radio the Secretary General of the Church's Emergency Aid talk about the church initiative. It again shows that we have networks in Norway in our voluntary environment against the environment in Zimbabwe – which may be the strength of much of our policy towards countries in Africa. I can only stress that Norway will try to intervene with these environments both officially and via other channels. Finally, as Secretary-General of Norway's Red Cross, I met the opposition leader in my office two years ago, and the pictures of him now – the cast in Zimbabwe – make a strong impression. The network of Norwegian environments that care about Zimbabwe, which will be the best in Zimbabwe, is also a channel we're going to use in the work we're going to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e896	Question no. 4 will be answered after question No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e903	This question, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is answered by the Minister for Food and Trade on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e906	‘Since the merger agreement between Statoil and Hydro, the Council of State has repeatedly stressed that the company’s head office must be located in Stavanger, at the latest in the Evening Post on 10 March. However, the merger agreement is now known and continues to be provided for a division of the group functions between Oslo and Stavanger. Why has the Government not done anything in this matter?"
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e913	StatoilHydro wants a registered office in Stavanger. It will appear in the statutes, as it does for Statoil today. The company will have a division of the group functions, but five out of eight group directors will be in Stavanger, and the main focus of the group functions will be in Stavanger. Stavanger becomes StatoilHydro's main power center, and the number of employees will increase somewhat compared to today. The government has assumed that the company’s head office should be in Stavanger. StatoilHydro will have a size and competence in Stavanger that supports this. I therefore believe it has been well arranged for the strong environment in Stavanger to be further developed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e920	What the Minister of Industry is now saying might as well have been said by an information manager of the new company. One of the frightening elements of this case is that the Government has not been willing to use its ownership to ensure Norway’s ability to consolidate Stavanger as the European Energy Capital. It's only the government that's now talking about headquarters in Stavanger. Group director Helge Lund consistently refuses to use this term. This is justified by Communications Director Ola Morten Aanestad of today’s Rogaland Avis by the following: ‘It is because it will mean that the entire group management will be in Stavanger, while the group will be headed both from Oslo and Stavanger.’ So that's Helge Lund's reason to refuse to use the term head office. Will the government cut through this case and go for an overall head office in Stavanger, as the situation is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e932	It is obvious that the representative Höie is poorly informed about the processes that are taking place. That's why it's okay to be asked this question. When the representative Höie says that the government has not done anything, it is directly wrong. The government acts as a tidy owner in this matter, and I actually thought that the representative Höie and his party were concerned about. One of the things we've been concerned about from the very first time we heard about the merger is that Stavanger is still going to be the focus of oil business in Norway. There's been a lot of speculation about it even before this merger. That has been the government's concern from the first day. But of course, we've handled it in a professional way, as an owner should, in relation to the legally elected organs of the board. But the outcome of what is being proposed is that Stavanger not only maintains its part of the activity, but that there are actually more employees in Stavanger after the merger than it was before the merger. So here the government has been clear and clear, in the professional way we're going to be in the relationship between one of several owners and the governing organs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e941	If it is that the government has been professional and clear, it should be possible to track changes when, among other things. the head office issue, in the time between the integration agreement, which was presented on 18 December last year, and the merger agreement, which was published on 13 March. Therefore, in order to make the State's professional, active ownership of this matter visible, I now ask the Council of State to explain what are the visible changes to the head office function and location, in the time between the integration agreement, presented on 18 December, and the merger agreement, published on 13 March.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e948	The representative of Höie then disregards the fact that the government was actually involved in this matter before the integration agreement. And as I say, in the whole process, right from the first time we heard about the idea, we've been concerned that Stavanger is going to continue as the center of gravity in the oil sector in Norway. A certain difference has also been recorded between the use of the term ‘business address’ and the wording currently used in Statoil’s statutes, ‘business office’, which will be the result of the new company. As I said, it has been important for this government to underline Stavanger's importance in the oil environment ahead. That is what the proposals now available on the organisation of the company show. But then, of course, the company Hydro also has a lot of employees with a lot of expertise. The two organisations are to be integrated, and taking into account that both organisations' employees and their resources are to join the new company, I hope that the representative Höie agrees is a balance that needs to be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e959	This question, from the representative Torbjørn Hansen to the Minister for Food and Trade, will be raised by the representative Siri A. Meling.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e962	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The travel industry warns against the dramatic consequences of the new NOx tax. The charge leads to large additional costs of accessing Norwegian ports and a loss in the number of calls for a quarter of the activity is expected. Each passenger leaves approx. NOK 1200 on the market. At the same time, it is unlikely that the fee will reduce the emissions of cruise vessels. Travel life is an important area of business policy. What will the Government do to prevent the NOx tax from weakening travel conditions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e977	As the representative said, travel life is an important industry contributing to value creation and employment, not least in the districts. In the Soria Moria Declaration, government parties have stated that tourism is one of five strategic areas of activity, and we are therefore taking action to strengthen tourism industries. Among other things, the appropriations allocated to tourism industries have doubled since 2005, to 200 million. kr in year. Furthermore, we are developing a national tourism strategy for the tourism industries. The aim of this work is to strengthen the basis for the positive development of tourism industries. In the so-called Gothenburg Protocol, Norway has made very demanding commitments to reduce NOx emissions. These are large emission reductions, and in addition, there is a short time left until we have to comply with the agreement, in 2010. Under this Protocol, Norway is obliged to reduce the annual emissions of NOx to a maximum of 156 000 tonnes. Based on the new revised emission figures submitted by the Statistical Central Agency on 12 February, the commitment corresponds to a reduction of barely 27 pst. in relation to 1990 and barely 21 p.m. in relation to 2005. The majority decided to introduce a NOx tax from 1 January 2007. For the proper functioning of the NOx charge, it includes as much of the total emission sources as possible. The fee is initially general, and there are few exceptions. All ships, including ships in the cruise industry with propulsion machinery with a total installed power exceeding 750 kW, are subject to the NOx charge. The reason for this is that, as far as possible, there is a desire to achieve non-discrimination between Norwegian and foreign actors. Emissions from ships engaged on direct voyages between Norwegian and foreign ports are exempt from the charge for all voyages. Following a close dialogue between the government parties and business organisations, the Stortinget adopted a supplement that ‘emission sources covered by the environmental agreement with the State on the implementation of NOx mitigation measures in accordance with a defined environmental objective’ may be exempted from charging. The Ministry of the Environment is now in dialogue with the interested trade organisations on the content of possible agreements. Norwegian NOx emissions are quite distinct from emissions in other European countries, with a total of 25 pst. emissions come from ships engaged on domestic voyages. Plus 12 pst. from fishing vessel. No other country has such a high share of emissions from ships and fishing vessels. Finally, I would like to stress that the background that Norway has committed itself to strict emission requirements under the Gothenburg Protocol is, of course, environmental considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1013	I thank you for your answer. The tourism industry is, of course, the industry that is expected to have the strongest growth globally, and the government itself has defined it as one of five areas of activity. We know that a cruise passenger is expected to add NOK 1200 per year. port calls, and the European Cruise Service has estimated that the rate with a conservative estimate is 600 million. kr in lost export income in 2010 and the loss of many thousands of jobs. With this backstop, it is important that one with this charge actually achieves results in relation to the environment. Does the government expect any cruise ships to install new technology due to the strange NOx charge? As you know, a cruise ship will only stay in Norwegian waters for short periods of time. Is it likely, then, that they will invest in new technology based on this Norwegian fee? The question is whether this will have any environmental impact in relation to cruise traffic emissions. Or is it that the NOx fee is just a fiscal charge to the Treasury?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1028	No, it's definitely not a fiscal charge. It is documented by the compromise reached in Stortinget in relation to the possibility of introducing environmental measures to avoid the charge. There is evidence that the fee is not fiscal. But if we're going to be able to reduce NOx internationally, of course, we're going to get better international agreements, so that we get shipping with us. The government is actively working on that within the shipping policy, and fortunately I am also recording that the shipping industry itself is engaged in international agreements and has a so-called zero-emission visa. The amount of any loss in relation to that charge remains to be seen in the estimates submitted by representatives of the international industry as their claims. Very often, the starting point for cruise in Norway is our fjords, that's our nature. Part of the basis for the travel strategy we are going to lay is just to make it clear that we have a green travel life in Norway. Therefore, I am convinced that taking care of nature is a good investment for travel life in the long term, also for the cruise industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1037	Fortunately, charges may change, and the question is whether it may be relevant for the Government to change this charging policy in the revised national budget. As the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade should know, the criticism of the device of this NOx fee has been strong from many points of view. Cruise traffic and the tourism industry are one party; the fishing industry is another. Rogalandsbenken on Stortinget met yesterday with representatives of the Egersund municipality, business and fishing industry in Egersund, where the consequence of this charge was made visible. The fee stimulates the increasing landing of Norwegian fish raw material in foreign, preferably Danish, ports, and thus increases further processing, both in industry, value creation and jobs based on Norwegian raw material. Is this a good policy? The fishing industry is asking for a level playing field here. Does the Minister realise that the NOx tax is a wrong instrument to use in relation to environmental impact and competition neutrality? Is it relevant to change this charge in the context of the revised national budget this spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1046	Several measures have been taken to meet the challenge that the charge is actually for those who are most affected by it. It has been made through grant schemes, both for short sea shipping in general, for freight and fishing fleets. There we have spent money to support investment in NOx mitigation measures. It is not that this government has not taken those challenges seriously. In addition, access to environmental agreements was opened, a legislation that is now being drafted in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment, in order to achieve real reductions in NOx emissions and thus to avoid the charge referred to here. But it is not the government's intention to remove that fee again in the revised budget, because we are also responsible for fulfilling our part of the Gothenburg Protocol. This is what we will do with that levy, but also by cooperating with the industries concerned — and bringing about real NOx reduction measures that can reduce costs and reduce emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1057	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘There is much dense ship traffic in Skagerrak with an average of 40 cargo ships and 18 tankers every day, much more tankers than, for example. on the Finnland coast. Increased traffic in ships increases the risk of accidents and oil pollution. Two years after the fall of the Fjord Champion in the Søgne Archipelago, there is no daily tugboat in place. The study on coastal preparedness has been extended. People in Agder and employees in the Coast Guards are worried. What will the Council of State do to improve towing boat preparedness on the coast of Agder?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1066	The government focuses on the prevention of maritime safety and oil protection throughout the coast. We see the importance of facilitating maritime transport as an environmentally friendly form of transport. As part of that work, in a report on the national draft alert, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency has made recommendations on action. One of the proposals in the report is to lease a towing vessel off the south coast. The Fjord Champion off-Segne in March 2005 showed that accidents can also occur on the south coast. I agree with the questioner that there is a lot of traffic outside the south coast. We therefore need to consider measures here as well. The coastal works tugboat report must be seen in conjunction with other maritime safety and oil protection measures. Coastal works traffic centres monitor all maritime traffic by means of, inter alia: AIS. AIS is a system that ensures automatic ship identification. It is further established a sailor 30 nautical miles from the coast of North Norway. The Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has asked the Coastal Directorate to start the work of establishing a south-facing head of sailing along the West and South. These are important instruments of overall oil protection. Today, in the event of a ship in distress, the Coast Guard works have access to the propulsion of a tugboat. The coastal works may also require the captain to pull on board within the territorial boundary. With the help of the AIS, the Coast has a good overview of available towboat resources along the coast. The defence has also been stationed through the Inner Coast Guard vessel ‘Norway’ covering the Skagerrak area. The ship is also equipped with oil protection equipment on board. This is important for overall preparedness along the south coast. National preparedness will have to rely as much as possible on existing available resources. The Ministry now has the Coastal Agency report under consideration and we see this report in conjunction with other necessary measures. The Government will return to Stortinget on the need for further action in the field of oil protection at a later stage, including the assessment of additional towing boat preparedness on the south coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1077	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I have to admit that I am rather impatient with this issue. As mentioned, ships from both the Baltic Sea and the North Sea are expected to increase considerably by 2015. As I mentioned, today there is very dense ship traffic – 40 cargo ships and 18 tankers per. 24 hours. That's a big risk. Will the Government propose to upgrade that preparedness in next year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1086	As the representative is well aware, I can't stand here and say anything about what's coming next year's state budget. But oil protection and coastal preparedness are among the issues that the Government is focusing on, including in the current budgetary work. What comes from appropriations, we'll see when the budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1093	Thank you for that follow-up. Finally, the study on coastal preparedness has been completed for over a year, and little has happened. Substationed tugboats include: Arendal and Kristiansand, but these don't have 24-hour crews. It will therefore take valuable time to rescue boats to prevent human and environmental disasters on the south coast, which is a vulnerable coastal stripe. When will the Government take all the necessary measures on standby along the Skagerrak coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1102	In addition to the measures which the representative correctly mentioned but which do not have a daily standby, the Coast Guard is stationed with the vessel «Normen», which is on the south coast and in Skagerrak, and which makes a significant contribution to the towing boat standby in the area. Then, as I said in my previous short reply, we will come back to what further action is being taken in the context of the 2008 state budget. This will, of course, only come about when the 2008 State budget is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1111	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: «The Nexans AS Sea Cable Factory in Halden is one of Eastfold's largest industrial companies and is claiming itself very well in a demanding international market. However, the very narrow and shallow path into the Ringdalsfjord represents a strongly limiting factor for the company's ability to continue growth and development. For a longer time, the company has tried to understand the need to do something about this trail. Will the Council of State take an initiative towards the enterprise, local authorities and Swedish authorities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1120	Improvement of the entrance to Halden was mentioned in the Coast Guard Programme 2002–2011. The aim of the project was, among other things: to enable vessels with a greater draught to enter Halden. More than half of the interventions envisaged would have to be carried out on a Swedish basis, as the border between Sweden and Norway is in the middle of the healthy state. Iddefjorden is one of Sweden's very few terskelfjords and has a distinctive diversity of species. The coastal works have carried out a comprehensive planning process with the aim of clarifying the extent and consequences of deepening the entrance to Halden through Ringdalsfjorden. The coastal works have complied with the process requirements resulting from the provisions of the Planning and Building Act. An impact assessment under Norwegian law has been carried out. Following the requirements of the Ministry of the Environment, it was investigated as a cross-border issue requiring coordination with Swedish authorities. The planned action would require intervention on the Swedish side. Throughout the planning process, the Swedish authorities have been critical of possible adverse effects on the environment as a result of the action. The Swedish authorities treat the case as a government decision. In consultation opinions and treatments in the Swedish government, there were clear opinions that the measure was considered harmful to the biological environment in Ringdalsfjorden, and that therefore no authorisation would be granted from Sweden. On that basis, the entrance to Halden is not described as a current project in St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004 National Transport Plan 2006–2015, promoted by the Bondevik II Government. The Swedish Coastal Agency has therefore informed in its 2006-2015 action programme that this matter will not be dealt with during the planning period. It is gratifying that the company Nexans in Halden is doing well. This hardly changes the environmental assessment of the project from the Swedish side. I therefore agree with the basis of the Bondevik II administration for the assessment of the project on the entrance to Halden.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1131	For the sake of order, I must thank the Council of State for the answer, although I am not very uplifted above the content. The thing is that 10 January this year was the Council of State colleague, Odd Roger Enoksen, in Halden and visited the company. Odd Roger Enoksen then spoke to Halden Arbeiderblad: ‘This is a problem that needs to be solved, but I cannot say when and how.’ He also promised to pass the matter on to his colleague in the Government, i.e. the present State Council. There has been a new government in Sweden. This may allow us to find the basis for a new assessment. Is the Council of State prepared to take a new initiative towards the Swedish authorities, so that a solution can be found to this very marginal issue in terms of intervention, but very, very important for a large and important industrial enterprise in Eastfold?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1143	As you can see from my first answer, there was no reluctance, either in the Norwegian Government at the time or in those who were in opposition, which was the background for this case to crash in the previous round. Since this was a theme in Sweden, a new government has also come in Norway, which is good for business and for Nexans. There has also been a new government in Sweden, that is correct. The priorities set out in the National Transport Plan for the current period are now the starting point for the planning work. But I am concerned that, if it is possible to reach other conclusions with the Swedish government, we will assess this at the latest in the context of the work on the next national transport plan, which will be dealt with at the end of this enlargement period. We have a desire to contribute to a solution, but we have to agree with our good neighbours that that solution is good enough, before we can manage to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1148	It wasn't my intention to try to make this a party political topic. I take this up because there is a widespread concern, cross-political and commercial, in Eastfold and Halden on this matter. In Norway, there has been a broad consensus that it should be possible to achieve something. As the Council of State says, and as I myself was in it, it has been the Swedish authorities that have put their feet down. However, the fact that a new Swedish government has now come opens up an opportunity to reopen the case. That's the one. The second is that one has previously assumed that there might have been a need to blow up mountain masses both above and below water. Now new technologies have been developed that may make it possible to avoid any use of explosives, using wire and diamond sawing above and below water, so that it is not visible visually at all – a much more gentle and environmentally much better way. I think you could have a new concept to present to the Swedish authorities here, and that challenge I hope the Council of State will take.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1155	I cannot say anything about when it is possible to realise the project that has been desirable from the Norwegian side, and as the representative says there has been a broad political consensus in Norway. However, the professional authorities that analyse the situation in Sweden from an environmental point of view have not changed if there has been a government change. We also need to respect the fact that Sweden has a significantly smaller number of typical terskin soils than what we have in Norway, so that fjords are perceived as something more unique, based on the situation of Swedish environmental authorities. But as I have said, we are prepared to reconsider the matter when there is a basis for it, but with the respect that we need for the fact that there is a common area with Sweden we are talking about. I think a natural occasion would be in connection with the transport plan for the next period, if it is not possible to take that discussion before that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1166	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘District quota orders would create greater nutrient development along the coast. A report from Fisheries Research shows that the system has failed. Very few have won the scheme, and many have lost. Norway's Fiskarlag believes that the coastal fleet lost a total of 40–50 million. kr on the scheme. In view of this failure, will the Council of State phase out the system of regional quotas and rather promote coastal development with other, more positive instruments?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1175	The scheme referred to in the question from the representative of Løvik is a testing scheme carried out last autumn, with the supply of district quotas in Nordland, Troms and Finnmark. The aim of the scheme is to facilitate the supply of raw material to fisheries-dependent districts. Such input of raw materials shall create activity, employment and value creation in the districts concerned. The testing scheme has now been evaluated by Fisheries Research. The evaluation provides a detailed description of the factors affecting the functioning and impact of the scheme in 2006. The report shows, among other things: the effect of the scheme depends on the fact that the regional quotas confer a different distribution of fish from normal fishing and that the development of normal fishing had a significant impact on the regional quota system. Furthermore, the report provides a number of advice on how to set up the scheme in order to ensure that policy objectives are achieved and other instruments are assessed in order to achieve the same objectives. Last year the testing scheme started late, but nevertheless had some positive effects on employment and activity. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has received feedback that the intentions behind the scheme are good, and the challenge then is to ensure that the design of the scheme is optimised. The Ministry is now following up on the work on regional quotas, and the report from Fisheries Research will be an important contribution to this work. The Ministry will then decide on any continuation and adjustments to the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1186	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. At least I'm glad he said a «possible continuation». It never gives you that little hope. In addition to what is mentioned in this report by the Council of State, this report includes: the distribution effects of what was seen with these district allowances. When it comes to reception, it turns out that Finnmark has received a positive, and that Troms and Nordland are roughly neutral. It is the Western fishermen who have the right to pay for this. It must be reasonable to ask whether the fisheries minister thinks it was intended that Western reception had to give quotas to Finnmark. There are fisheries-dependent areas in many parts of the country, and then the question is: were these intentions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1195	It is absolutely right that there are fisheries-dependent areas in many parts of the country. I have even visited some of the receptions in Løvik's area, so that's quite correct. But the purpose of this scheme was for these states to come out positively and secure their delivery base. There is no doubt that the trial plan we had last year came so late in the year that we really can't assess the effects of the scheme well enough. At least it will be relevant for the Ministry to start a similar scheme at an earlier date in the current year, but it can also, and we will get back to that, be talking about adjusting the legislation within the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1202	I thank you again for your answer, although there was no clear answer as to whether the intentions were a transfer of catches from West Norway to North Norway. I would like to get to the right a little bit more about it. In addition to the geographical distribution, several points point, including: The Ministry of Finance and several other heavy players, that overall, if we see the country as a whole – and we should – it is a socio-economic loss of efficiency in this scheme, because the 3500 tonnes that were redistributed did not come in addition to an ordinary quota, but instead of quotas that would otherwise have been delivered to other places. My question is: does it not impress the council that the total image gives a negative image of the Norwegian fishing industry, an industry that at least on land currently also wears quite marginal ignition?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1211	Within fisheries policy, we have a good deal of instruments that some with a clean economic background could claim to be more cost-effective. The whole system of Norwegian fisheries policy is this. In its ultimate consequence, we could take up much of the volume available, with factory trawlers and take up the fish effectively. I have the impression that there has been a broad political consensus, including in the previous government – although we disagreed very much with the government's timeless structure – that we should have an active fishing, both at sea and with further processing on land throughout Norway. There is an ambition for more parties on the Storting than those who are now in government. That's at least the Government's ambition. Therefore, one cannot say that purely socio-economic distribution could be another way, that is the only answer. Societal economics is also about how we want it along the coast, for example. in North Norway? What activity do we want in the factory offices in North Norway? How do we want to secure the resource base for fishermen in North Norway? It wants this government to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1222	I am pleased to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «According to the Nation on 7 March, the Post is full of detailed delivery rates down to the terminal level. The central party representative Jenny Klinge has asked that these figures be published so that we can do our job at Stortinget in relation to checking whether the concession terms of the Post are met. Will the Council of States ensure this transparency?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1231	The post office has not been able to comply with the concession requirement for forwarding time, which means that at least 85 pst. by domestic priority mail shall be received on the day following the submission. Nevertheless, the Post has had a long time before this had a higher quality than the concession requirement. I think they're adding a big job to Post to keep this high level, and I know that they're now putting all the forces in to correct the temporary lower quality. The problem of postal delivery increased particularly in the third quarter of 2006. According to the Post, these problems are mainly related to the conversion of air transport, machine problems in Oslo as a result of the postponement of the construction of new mail terminals and manning problems in metropolitan areas in a particularly tight labour market. The entry sets up large resources to improve the delivery of mail, and it now appears that the development is going the right way. The requirement of the concession applies to the average number of the whole country. Independent measurements are made on behalf of the Item according to an EU standard as a liability for such measurements. According to these measurements, the item provides information on quarterly average delivery quality for the whole country, with a low statistical uncertainty. These measurements are therefore suitable for external reporting and follow-up, e.g. with penalties and meets the requirements of the concession. It has been examined whether it is possible to make corresponding measurements at the county or sub-district level, but according to the Post it turns out that in order to achieve statistical certainty that is good enough for external follow-up, it will require so extensive measurements that it will not only be expensive, but probably also demanding or advisable. Of course, the item has a lot of management information about the quality of the mail delivery, as well as the external measurements. According to the Post, this applies to daily and detailed information on the proportion of the consignments that appear in a timely manner and on delays in all parts of the production chain at all locations. The item may also break down external measurement results in geographical areas, parts of the production chain and in shorter periods of time than quarter. Unfortunately, the more numbers are broken down, the more the statistical uncertainty increases. These figures are therefore not suitable for external reporting, but are nevertheless part of the Post's own management and follow-up basis, together with other internal operational information. I would like to ask the Post and Telecommunications Authority, in cooperation with the Post, in the near future, in line with the wish expressed by Jenny Klinge, to find out about measurements that provide a better picture of the transmission time at regional level. I would like to stress that this does not imply a change in the concession requirement, which will still be linked to the average transmission time at national level.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1249	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have a short follow-up question: will this be information that will also benefit us magnification representatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1256	When the Post through such a work finds measurements that give a better picture of the transmission time at the regional level, I will of course make sure that that information is made available to the members of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1261	Thank you for that. As a member of the Transport and Communications Committee, I receive daily e-mails stating that it is late in the mail. I remember very well in the election campaign in 2005, then there was a severe criticism of the government that was in the late post office. I have a question for the Minister of Transport: What action has she taken since she joined the government, to improve this relationship with late mail and universal service?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1270	Under the previous government, extensive changes were made to the Post Office. The aim of many of these was to save money and make operations more efficient. A lot of sorters have been put down. Among other things, there is no sorting centre in the West, between Bergen and Ålesund. It is clear that the long distances — there are other places in the country — make it particularly demanding to achieve the requirement of the concession. What we have done is to have a regular dialogue with the Post Office, and we have asked the Post Office to assess whether they have sufficient capacity, or whether they might need to reconsider their capacity requirements in order to meet the transmission requirement. We have a continuous pressure on the Post Office to ensure that we get a better transmission time than we have had so far. As I am now referred to from the director of the Post Office, the concession requirement should be met during the first quarter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1283	‘The development of roads is a public task. New road projects should be financed from public budgets. Nevertheless, the trend towards more and more projects being financed by tolls, tolls increasing, tolls being used for things other than road construction, and tolls being charged in advance and without direct benefit to payers from what they pay. At the same time, Norway is getting richer and richer. What will the Council of State do to reverse this trend, so that the country pays the whole road development in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1290	Transport is an important concern for business, industrial development and resource use in this country. Scattered busses and large distances make great demands on the transport system. Therefore, the government wants to bet more on commerce, and we want to pursue an ambitious transport policy. All investment in the national road network is a state responsibility, but fiscal considerations set limits on funding from the State budget. With this background, tolls have emerged as an additional form of funding, in fact from the 1930s onward. The use of tolls has led to the maintenance of a number of projects that would take a long time to implement if they were to be financed by ordinary means. A previous realisation of the projects will provide faster social security and promotion gains. This will include, inter alia: reduces transport costs and improves regularity in business. I have noticed that the Oslo Progress Party emphasises these concerns, when they say this in connection with Oslopack 3 according to the evening edition of the Evening Post on 19 March 2007: ‘If the Progress Party had only presented its position against tolls and declared itself out of the negotiations, this would mean that the major road developments would not have taken place.’ I would also like to point out that about half of today's toll schemes are involved in financing bridge or tunnel solutions that replace ferry services. This means that permanent payment of user fees on ferries will be replaced by a time-limited scheme which will be free of charge to users in the long term. In relation to toll-funded projects, an important principle for me is that they should be based on local initiatives and local policy decisions. It is also the case that in designing a toll project, the utility principle is important. Those who pay tolls should also pay tolls. This government wants, and has shown, that she wants to bet on commerce. This is a good test of the current year's budget. I can promise that we will continue this effort in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1306	Thank you for the answer, to the extent that it was an answer. The first two lines have been taken from the Centre’s own programme for the period 2005-2009. Here's another quote: ‘In order to achieve this commitment to transport, the Centre Party believes it may be necessary to use oil money. It is justified for measures to facilitate the centralisation of the press, to see job vacancies and to remove bottlenecks and accident hazards and to provide cheaper transport to the business community.» Does the Council of State Navarsete mean the same Vice President Navarsete in the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1318	Navarsete State Council rules on the basis of the Soria Moria Declaration. The formulation quoted from the Center Party's program is not included in the Soria Moria statement. The Soria Moria declaration is a compromise, in which we in the Central Party have had a great impact on many of our important issues, but not on this one. It lives well with the state council and governs within the space of action provided by the Soria Moria Declaration. This is how one should cooperate with others, and not do like the Advance Party, which is referred to in the newspaper as follows: ‘Now it turns out that Frp in Stortinget has a different vision from that of the county. This is what Frp often does, especially in matters of transport.’ So I'm not going to quote anymore. The central party has joined a government, based on a compromise between the three parties' programmes. The centre party is recognizable – because what our spokesmen stand for locally, and what we stand for on the rise and in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1328	The road network in Norway is poor and immature. The main road network needs NOK 230 billion, and the delays in maintenance on the state's own roads are NOK 25 billion. The framework of national transport plans cannot solve these tasks unless we wait 40 years. I have understood that the Central Party too realizes that the framework of national transport plans is too small and that the level has to be raised. Is it the case that the drivers are going to raise the level of the road operation? Is it such that the state lacks money or that fiscal constraints make it impossible for the state to use some of its wealth of money to finance more of the road development in Norway, even outside the framework that we know of current national transport plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1335	On behalf of the Government, I am well-informed on the next roll-out of the national transport plan, a major message to be submitted to the Stortinget late in 2008. On behalf of the Government, of course, I have ambitions to raise the level of extra traffic. I remind you that this government has made a quantum leap compared to what previous governments have done, which has largely had a flat or reduced rate of engagement in recent years. The ambitions are to continue on that track, and then we use oil money into the economy, both for road construction and for other important purposes of welfare development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1346	It might be tempting to continue that debate, but I shall confine myself to my question to the Minister for Transport: ‘Day after day travellers experience the Tau connection not to come with the ferry due to the ferry. lack of capacity. Regularity is also a big problem. The commuters are constantly feeling late for work, repatriation by plane and other arrangements. Business needs to spread traffic throughout the day in order to bring the ferry, but they are still at risk of overloading. This leads to waiting time and delays for carriers and customers. Will the Council of State now take initiatives to ensure that satisfactory ferries are connected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1355	The associated Stavanger-Tau is operated today with three ferries. I have been informed by the State Road Service that they are still in negotiations with the ferry company on the nature of the ferries and services to be provided in the connection from 1 May 2007. The negotiations have not ended, so I can't tell you anything about the result. What I can say is that the State Road Administration and the ferry company are trying to negotiate the use of the MF ‘Rennesøy’ in the relationship within the budgetary framework available to the State Road Administration. MF ‘Rennesøy’ is one of the released ferries from the Mortavågen-Arsvågen connection. There is reason to point out that there is a gap between the parties to the negotiations, and I find it unfortunate to reduce the supply of other national road haulage services in favour of increased supply in Stavanger-Tau. If MF ‘Rennesøy’ is inserted into the connection, the capacity will be strengthened by about 20 pst. It will at the same time ensure an effective back-up solution for, inter alia: the connection to Wititsøy and Skudeneshavn. Using this ferry in connection with the White Sea and the Port of Skudenes, other material hosts will be inserted into the Tau connection. Statens vägvesen now assesses whether the Stavanger-Tau link is to be put out of competition. Real estate connections are still in the planning phase and cost increases have resulted in construction start-ups not yet established. The aim of any bid competition is that the connection should meet the long-term objectives of the holiday company standard presented in St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004 National Transport Plan 2006-2015.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1364	I thank you for your answer. The circumstances of the travellers on the Tau connection are not acceptable, and I am pleased that the Council of State sees that it is her responsibility. This is one of the most typical commuter connections in the country of a little size. It is totally unacceptable that there is insufficient and appropriate material in the connection. There's one quick ride running the route today. Other materials are not appropriate. It creates great disadvantages for the travellers. There has been a long wish for a quick trip number two from the travelers on the route. Can we now expect them to be finally heard, and the Government decides that a two-way ferry should be built?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1373	The 2007 régionalisations increased by 137.4 million. kr. That's 10.4 pst. compared with the approved budget for 2006. It says a little about the challenges we face in the ferry sector, not least because of fuel costs and other costs. When it comes to the related ferry, it is a matter which has been raised and which is, of course, a budgetary matter. So it gets one coming back into the individual year's budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1380	I thank you again for the answer. Large companies such as Marine Harvest at Hjelmeland and Fiskå Mølle in Strand send twenty car trains per year. day with this ferry. Other major transport companies are also major users of the link. These of course look forward to the Ryfast connection being completed in 2015 and relieving the bottleneck of this pain. But until that happens, it must be possible to improve the conditions for carriers, businesses and other users. I did not get a concrete response to the expectations of deciding on a new speedy trip, but I hope that the Council of State will come back to this, possibly already revised. But as the Council of State was also involved, there is a cattle ranch unused in Stavanger Port, and I would like to ask the Council of State if she wants to commit herself so that this can be inserted into the connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1389	As I referred to in my main response, the State Road Service is working to find a solution, so that the MF “Rennesøj” can be inserted into the connection. When the State Road Service does so, they do it on behalf of the State Council, and the Council of State is particularly well informed about the major challenges we face in this connection, not least through our own parliamentary leader, Meltveit Kleppa, and the member of the Transport and Communications Committee, Langeland. Knowledge of the challenges is good, and we're trying to find good solutions to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1399	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘When the Stortinget decided in 2002 to establish a police helicopter service in Norway, one of the reasons was the proximity of Oslo and the tool such a helicopter could be for fighting crime. When you record that the helicopter is often weatherproof on the Gardermo, you don't get to use this capacity. What concrete immediate action will the Council of State take to make better use of the actual possibilities of the helicopter and to follow up the decision of the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1408	This is a relationship we can do something about. We can't do anything about the weather, but much else. The Judicial Committee provided for in Innst. S. No 155 for 2001-2002 that the helicopter service was located in Oslo Police District. Since the establishment of the service, it has been working to meet the decision of the Grand Duchy. The location of the Gardermoen helicopter service is not optimal in relation to the weather conditions and the need for rapid helicopter support for missions in Oslo, on which the queryer is involved, and which is to a large extent the type of mission in Oslo for which the Storing Message was most expected. Oslo Police District negotiates with the Municipality of Oslo for the rental of parts of an industrial area belonging to the NSB in Uusimaa. Meetings have been held with current town councillors and an open meeting for the population. Meetings with the City Council management have also been completed. Negotiations have progressed positively, and the police are expecting a solution to meet the demands of the agency. While some clarifications remain, including a change from rail to aviation and a concessional request to the Air Safety Authority, there is reason to expect positive results in the form of a base location in Oslo in a few years. In the meantime, Oslo Police District aims to move the helicopter base from Gardermoen to Kjeller to reduce the response time and avoid some of the weather problems you have on Gardermoen. The Air Safety Authority has applied for a concession for a temporary 24-hour police helicopter operation at Kjeller Air Station. Skedsmo municipality which the hearing body has taken a positive view. Oslo Police District is negotiating with Kjeller Aerocenter as an operator, and one expects this to be resolved in a short time. The police district has also established a positive dialogue with the Defence for the rental of premises at the military part of the air station. Today’s agreements do not prevent the geographical movement of the helicopter base. A temporary location on Kjeller is a significant step forward in terms of availability and response time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1423	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which I perceive was very positive. It's almost five years since we made decisions in this room, May 16th in 2002, while we had another big helicopter debate. It is clear that the Stortinget has given a lot of money here to get an optimal police helicopter service, which we have not received. When Gardermoen has had problems because of weather conditions up there, and you have only been able to use approx. 50 pst. of the capacity in December and January, it has been bad, nor has it been in line with what the Stortinget requested in 2002. So that's a positive answer. I'm also glad that you have a close dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo and the districts there, and that you're approaching a solution to this. I also hope that the Council of State can then express positiveness, because I assume that there is a dialogue between the Department and the Police Directorate – insofar as it is necessary to get this in place, so that we can do the necessary job and get the helicopter up to go, in line with the intentions and expectations of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1432	This is a case that shows that all resource discussions about police operations should not only focus on new funds into the police. It's actually about making us better equipped with the means and the tools and so far the tools we have to combat criminal acts. In this way, I believe that the Directorate of Police, of course in close dialogue with us in the Department, has a good approach to this by working on measures in the long term, as I explained, but at the same time has a temporary solution, so that we get the most effect as quickly as possible out of the quite many dollars spent on such a service.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1437	Again I thank you for a positive answer. I am pleased that the Council of State has the same ambitions today as he had the time he sat in the committee and was involved in and dealt with this. I'm positive about that. I'm going to think that we've estimated that we've gone up to 100 million. kr so far on this service. That is why we have a job to do to make it more optimised and in line with the decisions that were taken. It is probably also that other matters are also important to the Council of State than just what the Stortinget asked for. When you see the trend of the Riksrevision to look at the Stortinget and the Department in the maps of the decisions taken, and the follow-up of them, I assume that it is a motivation for the Council of State to get things in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1446	Yes, absolutely, I am of those who warmly welcome any administrative audit from the Riksrevision. I think it's very useful for us, because I mean, and don't hide, that much of the political debate is also very much about getting more money into the public, no matter what kind of needs you have. Then I see that we have tremendous resources to manage both in terms of personnel and not least equipment, which makes sure that we should always – no matter what department we run, and what government we have to sit in – have in mind how we can get more out of the dollars we use. I'm totally dependent on it if the government is still going to be able to deliver as much as it does, both in terms of reducing pay queues and also in terms of creating a safer society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1451	So we go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1458	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Defence, is answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1461	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions, which will then be answered by the Minister of Justice: ‘The defence is in a reorganization and a lot of equipment becomes redundant and sold. In the past, Belt wagon, BV 202N, has been put out for gift sale to NPISHs around Norway. BV 206N is now to be sold in an auction. Would it not make sense to sell gifts to these organisations in view of civil crises where the defence and civil society work together to limit damage and save lives, just with equipment that the defense has no longer used, but that can benefit others?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1470	As a result of the ongoing reorganisation and efficiency of the defence, it becomes a surplus of material. The disposal and, where appropriate, the sale of this surplus material is handled by the Defence Disposal Project according to normal instructions for the removal, cassation and disposal of material, the Ministry of Defence's material management guidelines and the Defence Management Directive. In the annual government budgets adopted by Stortinget, the Ministry of Defence is also bound by claims for income in the form of the sale of real estate and surplus material in the Defence – which I believe the party of the questioner has also given its consent to. Today, the armed forces have not transferred belt wagons of type BV 206 to the Defence Logistics Organisation and the Disposal Project. Consequently, no excess of these wagons has yet been defined. However, in the context of the further development of the defence structure, such a defined surplus could eventually arise. In this case, for example: interested organisations apply to the Defence for the purchase of the relevant surplus wagons. The defence has stated that during 2006 there have been only a few telephone calls to the disposal project for the purchase of belt wagons. These enquiries have been from localities of Norway’s Red Cross and Norwegian Folkehelp. The defence has invited local laws to address their requests in writing via their respective main organisations for the disposal project. According to the disposal project, no applications have been received from the CACs so far. I see it as an important task that the defence provides the support they can to civil society in the form of materials and equipment that are no longer needed. At the same time, the defence, through state legislation, is required to sell superfluous defence equipment at market prices. This can be seen, inter alia, in: of the normal instructions, which I was in the city. In addition, the disposal project is not financed but organised in such a way that the proceeds from the sale of surplus material cover all costs related to the disposal activity. The disposal project has also informed that it is regularly contacted by public agencies and relief organisations wishing to acquire or purchase surplus material. The Ministry of Defence wants to have good cooperation with the voluntary organisations and will deal with any applications under national legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1483	I thank the Council of State for a positive and constructive response. I asked a similar question in 2002, which was also a Document No. Eight proposals. Then the defense was to get rid of many BV 202, and we got to stop them. There were 505 organisations that were offered to buy the overwhelming ones. All those that could be sold were sold, including the municipality of Våler, the municipality of Rendalen, the municipality of Nord- und Süd-Odal and others. Eidskog Red Cross e.g. and many others were allowed to buy a BV for NOK 1000 – a gift sale. These vehicles have been used for non-profit purposes. What's happening now with the Defense is that the Defense is being built down, and it's in fewer places. We all agree that the defence must be reorganized. But then we get a lot of equipment that is easily – at least with my eyes – sold in auctions instead of non-profit organisations etc. may be allowed to participate in this equipment and be purchased at a reasonable price and used for social work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1492	I am familiar with only parts of the process when the representative, Mr. Bredvold, was in the mood for the BV 202 to benefit the help organisations. I feel that this was a different situation from the one we are facing today in the case of BV 206, all the time these BV 202s were more or less ready for the cassation and were offered to these organisations. As I said in my main response, the Defence Forces have not so far transferred some of these BV 206 belt wagons to the Defence Logistics Organisation and the Disposal Project. So this is also a different situation because these are newer machines. I perceive that from the Defence's side only some belt wagons of this type have been sold in auction. These vehicles have been discarded by the professional authority on a technical basis, so there is a slightly different starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1501	I thank the Council once again for the answer. According to my information, BV 206 has been sold in two auctions. There aren't so many, but with one of these vehicles you can save a lot of lives, and you can avert and reduce accidents. So my question to the Council of State, which I hope he will pass on to the Council of State, is whether you want to take a careful look at this when the defence is about to dispose of equipment – in this case it was a BV, but there may also be other types of equipment that the Defense disposes of, both motorized and other – in case it can be used in other state or private establishments, in order to use the word, where someone can do social work, such as saving people, averting crises, reducing crises, and not just selling it. It's clear that it's easy to sell things in an auction and get x the number of dollars. But I think it's a total account that would look a lot better if you put it out for gift sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1508	This can always be agreed, but it is still the case that commitments are made to the budget and legislation on how to dispose of this type of equipment. You can also have equipment that can be of significant value. It's hard to predict what's going to happen to this, all the time you don't have the same situation you had with the old wagons, as I see it. But there is an opening in the legislation with an opportunity to sell materials directly in profit, where, as far as I am aware, six organisations are listed, but then under the conditions laid down by the legislation, among other things. in relation to pricing, it shall be at market prices. But I have to pass on the representative's signals to the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1519	This question, from the representative of Thore A. Nistad to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is raised by the representative of Morten Ørsal Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1522	«In the newspaper Gudbrandsdølen Dagningen 20 February, several empty rooms at the Hospital Inland HF are referred to at Lillehammer, while several patients have to lie in the hall. Both at this hospital and several other similar hospitals, the situation is the same. This is done to save money in a country that has £2,000 billion. kr on the savings book abroad. Are these savings measures a good thing for the Council of State, and what will the Council of State do about the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1529	Let me first underline what I have said on several occasions in the past, and also let health care companies know that referring patients to a bed in a hospital corridor is not a worthy way to meet patients. It should be avoided as far as possible. It is unfortunate because it is a burden for patients affected by it, but also because the placement of patients in the corridor represents an increased risk of spread of infection. As I said, I have given clear and unambiguous governance instructions to regional health companies that, as a general rule, they should not have corridors. In order to overcome this problem, there is a need not least for better interaction systems and much greater involvement with management in some hospitals. It is about establishing good interaction for the sick and elderly group, so that they receive a comprehensive offer both in the primary health service and in the specialist health service. So we're doing what we can to prevent patients from becoming so-called swing door spaces. Furthermore, it's about internal organisation at hospitals, just to avoid that there's some empty patient rooms, while elsewhere there's patients in the corridors. Health East reports to me that they have now addressed this problem at the Hospital Inland. Action plans shall be drawn up for the enterprise as a whole and for each hospital. All these action plans shall be submitted to the fire authorities and to the Health Authority on 10 May. There is a basic rule that each hospital should use its total bed capacity before patients are placed on the corridor. A person responsible for each hospital has been appointed to ensure that the total capacity of the hospital is used. If the capacity is fully utilised in each hospital, the patient shall be able to be transferred or admitted to one of the neighbouring hospitals. More emphasis shall be placed on the interaction with primary health services. Among other things, the arrangements for practical consultants are in the process of being put in place by all hospitals in the enterprise. There are also concrete plans to establish several bed places as a cooperation between the municipalities and the hospital. It is this type of systematic work that is needed to put an end to the corridor Asiatic system. I think I disagree with the representative that the problem is primarily about too little money. Norway is at the top of the world with regard to the use of resources on health, and we should do that because it is the right priority. There has never been so much money allocated to Norwegian hospitals and to healthcare for the rest of the time. There have never been any more hospital employees, but despite that, I know that in some hospitals there are demanding challenges. Last night I visited the Hospital Inland, Lillehammer, and I have got some insight into what the challenges are. On that basis, I have also asked for an explanation of the situation. I will await it and of course have close dialogue with Health East about the situation at the Hospital Inland.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1542	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It has been said by some central politicians that the reason we have corridor Asians is that we have too wide corridors. I hope the Council of State does not share this view. The council also says that there is not necessarily money on it all, but rather the use of the money and how the money is allocated. The input-based funding was reduced from 40 pst. until 60 p.m., and then we got a new government, and the queues just increased and increased. Will the Council of State take the initiative to change the input-based funding so that it returns to a level that allows hospitals to operate more efficiently?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1549	First of all, I would dispute what the representative says that the queue has increased after this government took over. I don't think that's right. Fortunately, the waiting lists go the right way, sail if we have challenges in some areas. It's particularly true in psychiatry. Then there are some differences around the country. That's right. What is a fact is that never has any government granted as much money to the hospitals as this government. With regard to the question of input-driven financing, the Government has now set in motion a work to address this issue. I guess to be honest, that might not be the main answer to the question of Corridor Asians. It is primarily about how we organise ourselves internally in hospitals, between hospitals and the cooperation between primary health services and hospitals. But for other reasons, we are also in the process of having a review of this. This government believes, unlike the Progress Party, that there is no need to have such a high level of effort-driven funding as it was in the past, because we must also be able to take care of those who do not have diseases that are so easy to treat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1556	I thank you again for the answer. It is true, as the Council of State said, that there has never been more money allocated and that it is not certain that input-based funding is the main response. But it's a fact that when the input-based funding was 60 p.m., the queues also went down. Now it's like we're investing quite a lot of money abroad, and we have NOK 2,000 billion on the book there. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate to invest in foreign companies, or does the Council of State consider that investing in health in their own country may be at least as important?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1565	This government has had a clear policy since we took over. We also expressed it in the election campaign ahead of the last election. The most important thing for us is to give priority to Community solutions. That's why we went away from what the previous government had started with, that's to keep giving huge tax breaks to the richest. It has, among other things, as a result, this government has given NOK 18 billion more to the municipalities in a year and a half. As the first government, we have given an incredible amount of money to the hospitals. But there are still challenges. There is no doubt that the Hospital Inland is one of the areas where there are demanding challenges. I take that very seriously. I await a statement from Health East on that matter. I can also inform you that the new regime for the new merged region, Health South-East, is set down today, so that we gradually get people who are going to go deep into that problem too.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1576	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘Cooperative governance has taken action to strengthen the provision of early rehabilitation to head injuries. Early rehabilitation is essential for these patients to be able to recover important functions. The National Traffic Damage Association states that only 50 pst. of the patients concerned, such rehabilitation is due to: the lack of capacity of health care establishments. What will the Council of State do to ensure that all head-damaged patients who need it can receive an early rehabilitation offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1585	The government sees it as important that people with head injuries and others in need of rehabilitation get good rehabilitation at the right time. On behalf of us, the Social and Health Directorate has assessed what the rehabilitation offer for people with head injuries should contain and how it should be organised. The Social and Health Directorate has proposed a model, as developed in Denmark as well. Persons with severe head injury should receive rehabilitation services in all health regions. Regional health enterprises are now working to strengthen this area. Unfortunately, it takes some time to strengthen and develop a good offer, but there are plans and projects going on in all health regions. I will also influence on my part that it will start as soon as possible where it is not well developed. In the Health East there is a unit for intensive early rehabilitation at Ullevål University Hospital. This unit, as the representative knows for sure, has two beds and one unit at Sunnaa Hospital with 14 beds. The necessary training of staff has been completed. Clinical experience and feedback from patients and relatives are good. It is now working to improve the offer of children with acquired brain damage. Health South offers at the Special Hospital for Rehabilitation in Kristiansand, which has three places for serious head injuries, as well as outpatient services. Health South is now considering increasing capacity. The Special Hospital for Rehabilitation in Kristiansand is working on empowerment for those working with this group of patients. In the Health West, the plan for rehabilitation has been adopted. Health Bergen HF has been commissioned to establish a regional offer for patients who need early and complex rehabilitation after serious brain damage. Health Mid-Norway RHF aims to strengthen the measures for patients with severe head injuries by St. Olav's Hospital HF and Health Sunnmower HF. Health Nord RHF is planning a step-by-step build-up of the offer for patients with severe traumatic brain damage. There is also a head injury unit with three beds linked to the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation at the University Hospital of North Norway and increasing the competence of employees. As you know, the government will also present a separate case of rehabilitation and rehabilitation during this year. This matter will focus on the rehabilitation field and contribute to strengthening and developing the supply that is available. I agree with what I believe is at the root of the question, namely that we need to strengthen the rehabilitation services for this group as well as for other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1598	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true, as the Council of State points out, that it was her predecessor, Ansgar Gabrielsen, who took the initiative to establish a specialty division at Ullevål Hospital. There are experience figures for that offer. From October 2005 to October 2006, 62 patients received this offer. In the same period, there were 25 patients who were not offered because of lack of capacity, both holiday closures during the summer, and lack of space and other complications. At the same time, the figures from the Norwegian patient register show that the decrease in the number of daily rehabilitation sites in 2006 was a total of 16 pst. in relation to the previous year, 2005. This means that the overall capacity, the supply of 24-hour rehabilitation, has fallen significantly. The provision of highly specialised immediate treatment for head injuries — and this is essential for the whole process — is critically low.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1605	With regard to the offer of serious head injury, it is quite right that there is an offer in building up, and unfortunately it is not yet possible to secure all those who need it, necessary offers. We're going to take that very seriously. Businesses are working on it, and I'm also concerned that we can get in place. With regard to the general statement from the representative, Wage on the decline in rehabilitation sites, I would just like to say that this government acquired a rather difficult legacy from the previous government – of which the right was a member – by choosing to place rehabilitation offers on the market and leaving it to regional health companies, but was not willing to send with the money that was needed. As a result, when we entered the government offices, we went in with extra funds to prevent some rehabilitation institutions from being laid down, which was the case if you still had nothing to do with it. So we're trying to correct the mistakes from some time back, and the goal is – and I understand that we agree – to strengthen the rehabilitation offer to everyone who needs it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1612	It's not my job to advise government members, but if it had been, I think I would have given the good advice to stop talking about the past. Now you've been responsible for a year and a half, and the figures I referred to from the Norwegian Patient Register, which is official figures, relate to the year 2006. As far as I know, the Minister of Health was the Council of State for the whole of 2006. The transfer of responsibility to regional health enterprises agreed, voted in favour and supported by the Workers' Party. So that's not a good excuse either. What is a fact is that the provision of lucky night-based rehabilitation facilities is much lower than the need, and the reason for this is that most health care establishments offer far too few places. The Council of State is responsible for all health establishments and gives instructions to them. Will the Council of State give clear instructions for the provision of multiple sites?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1619	What I agree with the representative for pay is that the need is greater than today's offer. In my time as Minister of Health, I have given instructions – to use that word – to regional health companies that rehabilitation should be given priority, and I will continue to do so. The government will also return to concrete measures in that case during this year. Then I agree with Wage that it is important to look forward and that we gather on what we can agree on. The representative of Wage chooses to take full responsibility for the situation in the rehabilitation offer on this government, but it is a fact – it is important for me to say that – that in 2005 we took over with a rather difficult starting point, and then more than today’s government has to bear responsibility. Having said that, I would like to say that I am busy looking forward, and I believe that we agree that we will collectively try to strengthen this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1632	‘According to the Norwegian patient register, there has been a decrease in the number of daily places for rehabilitation by 16 pst. in 2006. Storting granted in St.prp. [[2006-2007]] No Add What does the Council of State do to ensure increased capacity in the provision of rehabilitation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1639	As I said in the previous question, the government sees it as important to ensure that anyone who needs it is offered rehabilitation. Much of the rehabilitation is done in municipalities, with guidance from specialist health services, if any. As is known, provision is made within the specialist healthcare services in hospitals, both in physical, medical and rehabilitation departments, in Revmatological and neurological departments. The offer is provided through outpatient, departmental and rehabilitation team services. Furthermore, as we know, we have offers from private training institutions and rehabilitation institutions. Data from the Norwegian patient register per year The second tertiary in 2006 shows that there were more than three times as many rehabilitation stays in hospitals as in private training institutions, health sports centres and rehabilitation institutions. The fact that the capacity has fallen, I believe, despite the previous reply, is related to the fact that the ordering responsibility and financial responsibility of the training institutions were transferred to the regional health companies – by the Bondevik II administration – and that it was put out for tender. Regional health enterprises are responsible for concluding agreements with private rehabilitation institutions. The budget for this year transferred funds to regional health establishments for this purpose, as in the past. Regional health establishments have assessed the offer in conjunction with the other offer in the region and have focused on quality and price. Overall, the services currently provided would provide a strengthened offer to those groups that need it the most. The extra funds allocated in connection with the discussion of sick leave, as referred to in the question, are to be used to speed up the return of sick persons to work. Clearly, the goal is for sick leave to go down. This week, the NAV and the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health on behalf of the Government sent letters to all local authorities asking them to refer people to this new scheme. That's the 380 million. NOK plus what's in there for the rest, so we're going to get out with over 600 million. kr for the current year. It is assumed that the specialist healthcare service can offer patients assessment and treatment throughout their service spectrum, and it is necessary to adapt according to the needs of each individual person — including rehabilitation. Then I would like to say that it is the content of the service and not the ownership that will be decisive for who will provide the service. It is then up to each regional health company to consider what they can offer their patients in their region — public or private, to say what it is. What is most effective to get people back to work as quickly as possible? That's what's meant. It is provided that regional health companies establish formal contacts with private actors to assess the appropriate use of, inter alia, private training institutions. In the mission paper for the current year, I have made it clear that all users who need rehabilitation or rehabilitation measures at a specialised level will receive it to a sufficient extent. It shall apply to all age groups and to all diagnosis. As I said in the previous round, we are working on a matter of rehabilitation, to which we come back in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1656	I thank you for your answer. The Council of State was concerned that they were working on a matter, a strategy plan, that is probably the one that has been mentioned earlier. There have been many postponements in connection with it, and I think it might testify that this area is not sufficiently prioritised by the Government. I also record that the Council of State boasts that the appropriations from the previous year have continued. I would like to remind you that LHL stated that the red-green government budget was a betrayal of all those who need rehabilitation. And last night we could read in the VG that an institution in Vikersund had to shut down operations because the agreement with Health East had stopped. It affects, among others: sick elderly people, who may lose their ability to recover important functions and be able to manage themselves. At St. Olavs Hospital, it is proposed to reduce the provision of rehabilitation to disabled people. For these patients, the government's announced strategy plan is of little comfort. Is the Council willing to grant earmarked funds to strengthen the provision of rehabilitation even for those who are not ill-reported and to stop the construction of this offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1665	The scheme I referred to instead, which concerns those who are sick, is in danger of getting sick or going back to work, is a separate scheme, which goes on its own keel, with its own money. This should not go beyond the offer to other patients who are not in the same situation. That's why we have two different races, and that also applies to rehabilitation. The fact that we are going to give rehabilitation to those who are going back to work should not go beyond those who are not going back to work, for example. This government prioritises rehabilitation very high, and we're working very closely on it. We have already earmarked quite significant amounts for this area for the current year. Most of the rehabilitation takes place in hospitals. I hope the representative agrees with me that when talking about which institutions we are going to have, it is also important to assess the quality. Unfortunately, there are some institutions – without mentioning the name here and now – that probably don't have the quality to get people back to the function they need to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1678	I thank you again for the answer. The right is very concerned with stepping up the provision of rehabilitation and the need for the next health policy initiative. That is why we also proposed an increase of 500 million in the current year's budget. kr. This would be in addition to the 600 million. kr as Stortinget granted to the sick person. The reason was that we wanted disabled children, the elderly and the sick to have a better offer. But this was not supported by the government parties, unfortunately. On the contrary, government parties have provided for a reduction in the rehabilitation offer in 2006, as we have seen in the past. In the day's revision of 10 February, the Council of State got this question and then performed to blame the previous government, as she now did in reply to the salary and to me. This is, of course, a reform which the Labour Party voted in favour of in the Stortinget. She has asked health companies to limit the purchase of private rehabilitation institutions, and then she owes it to the previous government when the offer gets worse! When will the Council of State take responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1685	Here there were many questions, which it's impossible to answer in 1 minute. This Council of States is taking responsibility. I've done that from day one. But when the Right repeatedly tries to keep it that they have no responsibility for the changes that have occurred within rehabilitation in 2006, I think it is actually wrong. And it's not like the Workers' Party has been too tender. Many rehabilitation institutions around have used resources to run and negotiate tenders. That's also why we've gone away from it as a general rule and over to agreements. It's important. The representative instead mentioned some institutions that were at risk of being shut down or cut out. I don't know all the details, and it's other than me who's going to decide this, but as far as I know, not everything Sonja Sjöli came with in connection with those examples, right, and that's good. This government has the goal of building up. We're going to keep doing that, and we're going to strengthen this area further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1696	Then we go to today's last question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1703	‘The Christian People’s Party is concerned that the school health service is not available enough for many students. In many schools, supply is down to an average of 40-60 seconds per year. student in the week. A low-threshold service as a good school health service could prevent both mental and physical health problems. When the mental health escalation plan is completed, 800 new annual school health work will be in place. The Council of State will then consider, for example: to establish a standard for the weekly availability of school health services by students?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1710	I share the concern of the representative Davøy about the availability of the school health service. In very many municipalities, the capacity is underdeveloped. This applies in particular to the offer at secondary school. A survey carried out in 2004 shows that this figure is approx. one year of health care per year; 1 000 primary and secondary students, as a whole. It's too bad, it's too bad. I also agree that the school health service is central to the prevention work of children and young people. The school health service has a unique opportunity to reach all children and young people through its links with the school. For young people it's important to have a place they can go and talk without the parents being involved, talk about things they can't talk to their peers about, and it's important that they can go to a place without having to order an hour, that there's availability when they need it. The contact area that the school health service has with all children and all young people is particularly valuable in reducing social health differences. In addition to providing students with an offer in the school health service, the service may refer to the specialist health service and establish contact with other assistance services in the municipality. This means that the school health service is also important for the proper functioning of the other auxiliaries. As the representative of Davøy pointed out, the mental health escalation plan aims at recruiting 800 new annual works within this area by the end of the escalation period. By the end of 2005, it had been recruited approx. 450 new annual works. This means that there has been a significant strengthening of the service, but that there is still some before we are in the goal. It is therefore necessary to intensify the work under the heading of the escalation plan if we are to achieve the target of 800 new annual works by the end of 2008. Municipalities have had plans for work until the end of 2006. Now there is a requirement for municipalities to update these plans in order to have the earmarked funds paid for 2007. It's assumed to be at least 20 pst. of the funds allocated to municipalities shall be directed to measures against children and young people. The government has in St.meld. No 20 for 2006-2007, the National Strategy to Balancing Social Health Differences, announced that the school health service should be further developed and strengthened. There is much evidence that the target of 800 new annual works through the escalation plan is not sufficient to achieve a satisfactory offer under the direction of the school health service. The escalation cannot be resolved by means of the psychiatry plan alone. That's why we've got from the government's side, among other things. ensuring that the free revenues of municipalities have increased significantly. Health and school health services are statutory services, and municipalities also have a separate responsibility to meet legal requirements within the current financial framework. In addition, I would like to assess whether it is necessary to use even stronger instruments to develop the school health service. In this context, it would be appropriate to assess whether there is a need for standards or standards of availability, such as: for the number of students per annual work. As a follow-up to the Social Health Differences Report, the Social and Health Directorate has been given the task of assessing the current situation of school health services and what should be the capacity and content of the service in the future in order to have a full range of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1725	I thank you for the answer given by the Council of State, and I am very pleased that the Council of State is very concerned about this question. I have also read St.meld. No 20, of course – we have it for treatment in Stortinget – and there is a lot about this. What I think the school health service has to provide is to be an important low-threshold service, which has also been addressed by the Council of State, which is involved in prevention activities. There's a lot, a lot more than that. prevention guidance, which is important enough. But today, young people have a lot of problems with mental health, with physical inactivity, with bullying and intoxication. The Christian People's Party's youth party has been very concerned about this, and has also asked itself whether you should have had a minimum time, for example. per 1 % students, if you had the opportunity to attend an hour at a health nurse once a year, and also if the school health service should be more interdisciplinary than today. I could imagine asking the Council of State how she views such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1732	Firstly, I fully agree with everything that is said about the importance of this service in preventive health work. I also want to repeat that I believe that the extent of school health services today is too poor, it is too small. It's not bad what's there, but it's too little. That's why we need even more employees in school to do this important job. That this is a low threshold offer, I believe is important. I also think it is important to develop it further in terms of opening hours. That health centres have open in the afternoons and evenings, as it is now being tried out in some municipalities, so that young people can go there without others knowing about it, without ordering hours etc., makes us reach even more than what we do on the regular school day. So here we have to combine several things. I'm very open to evaluating most of it, to say it that way, in order to strengthen this important part of the prevention work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1739	I am very pleased with the answer given by the Council of State, and very much agree with the approach here. I'm also worried about the number of years' work when the mental health promotion plan is completed, and I'm glad that the Council of State says that she may not think it's enough with the annual work that comes, and that's very positive. More than possibly to have standards that apply to students per. yearwork, I think maybe the most important thing could be the opening time. In one of the municipalities in my own county, Hordaland, in the municipality of Fjell, there is a health station activity in the afternoon that is linked to a different offer for vulnerable children and young people. It turns out that being close to other youth services where a person may meet a youth who is in the danger zone, or who has different problems, be it himself or at home, is incredibly important. So there are actually health sisters operating several times a week. If the Council of State can take this and really look at opening hours, I think it would be a big step further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1748	Yeah, I'm really taking that with me. And there we have to appeal to our municipal politicians, who are going to implement this in all municipalities, but I am speaking loudly about it as often as I can, because I think it is very important. I fully agree with the representative Davøy that that way when we young people like us don't manage to reach in the ordinary offer. I think it makes sense that most young people don't order an hour at the firm if they have problems or have experienced something at home the night before. Then it is important that there are some adults there — there and then, or the evening after, or when it had to take care of the youth. I perceive that the representative Davøy and I and the parties we represent agree very much on the objective of this matter. It's also very constructive about getting solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-21.ana.ud2060e1755	Then we've processed the completed maps of the day.
