ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e76	The representative Mr Børge Brende will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e79	On behalf of the representatives of Gunnar Gundersen, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Olemic Thommessen and myself, I am delighted to propose an action plan for cleaning up Mjösa.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e84	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e87	On behalf of the representatives Børge Brende, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Øyvind Halleraker, Martin Engeset and myself, I would like to propose a general extension of the hunting season for cervids.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e92	The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e95	On behalf of the representatives of Laila Davøy, Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Jan Sahl and myself will promote a proposal for a representative on the universal design of Moss Airport Back.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e100	The representative, Mr. Tord Lien, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e103	On behalf of Per-Willy Amundsen, Torbjørn Andersen, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself, I would like to make suggestions to limit the county council and county council's right of objection in municipal level and area matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e109	The representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16, until the completion of the current map. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 to 4 is dealt with as a whole – and considers it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e162	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line with up to five lines of response following speeches by the main speakers of the parties, after parliamentary leaders, after the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, and up to three lines of response after submissions by other members of the Government, within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e173	For the government party, fighting unemployment and ensuring fair distribution in society is the most important thing in economic policy. In both of these areas, the Government delivers great results. The unemployment rate is lower than ever in 20 years. Employment continues to grow. Multiple add-ons pass from part-time to full-time settings. Immigrants can enter the labour market more easily. More older workers are more likely than before to be included in the labour market. Budgetary policy shall contribute to a stable economic development. The safe economy for households is central in this context, especially for families with large mortgages. Many of these younger families will be particularly vulnerable if interest rates increase faster and more than the change reported by Norway Bank. We now experience capacity problems and labour shortages in some industries. This is the image even though we have had increased labour migration. The increase in wages is also on the way up. If the cost of competitive business increases too much, jobs across the country may be threatened, not least in the districts. For the government party, it is therefore decisive that an economic policy is pursued that does not result in a sharp increase in interest rates, a higher dollar rate and an increasing wage and price pressure. Another policy course will put jobs at great risk. The government party is busy building up good welfare. But we don't have to use so much of the revenue from the oil and gas business that we're looking at the economy. It is not a solidarity policy. The government is taking a new, important and necessary step in economic policy. The use of oil money will be reduced from 4 pst. to 3.8 pst. of the real return on the pension fund. So the structural oil-corrected deficit in the budget is reduced by DKK 3.2 billion. Such an arrangement is consistent with the intention of the rule of action. It is a necessary step to counter strong pressure in the Norwegian economy. The Progress Party and the Right are tumbling with the idea of joining a new government project. The slopes between them are very different, for example: in the use of money. What unites them is a commitment to the government party. Right will cut the budget by 722 million. kr. On the other hand, the progress party is on a completely different course and will increase the use of money by approx. $3.5 billion. The political rift is large and visible. Within a defence-related economic framework, the Government has found room to invest in several key areas, in particular children, young people and training, stronger environmental efforts and action in the districts. It is very important for us to involve people in the labour market. Therefore, the Government is in favour of keeping the measures for ordinary and disabled jobseekers at the same level as in the 2007 budget, although unemployment has fallen sharply. Another measure that will also inspire people to get into work is the use of kindergartens. An additional effect of this is that young children’s parents can be economically active. Yes, this group gets better conditions than they've ever had. In the draft budget, the budget for kindergartens will increase by 370 million. kr for the remainder of the current year. It's even a step closer to full kindergarten coverage. A growth in capacity for 2006 and 2007 is assumed to be 38,800 full-day seats, of which 22,700 this year. The collection makes this up for the last two years or so. 6000 more places than what was expected in the balance of the budget. The differences are clear between us and the other parties in kindergarten policy. On the right, the nursery price will increase and extra costs will be incurred by parents of 325 million. kr. The left suggests in the same direction, but with a lower amount. None of these suggestions motivate young children’s parents to go to work. Children in need of child protection are a very vulnerable group. We see that unfortunately there have become more children under care. As a result, the cost of child protection measures is increased. This makes it necessary to strengthen the rights of child protection by 220 million. kr. The government suggests this because it is busy giving children good deals. At this point there is no divergence in the Financial Committee. Children and adolescents should have good dietary habits. It'll help provide better learning outcomes in the school. As a new and constructive measure, the Government proposes the introduction of free fruit and vegetables for all elephants in youth schools and in combined children’s and youth schools. The scheme shall apply from August of this year. It is the school owner, who in most cases is the municipality, who is responsible for implementing the new measure. For the government, it is a goal to strengthen the training by several hours per. week in the base ball. We believe that the benefits of the training can be increased by such a scheme. In addition, there is every reason to believe that such a measure will help to smooth out differences in socially motivated learning outcomes. The draft revised budget sets out the means for experimenting with extended school days in the coming school years. The test will include an increase in hours between 1 and 4. Steps, homework, physical activity and testing of scouring foods. Experience from the experiment will be important in implementing full-scale action across the country. Unfortunately, in recent years we have seen that too many young people do not undertake further training. This is particularly unfortunate for young people in debt, but the socio-economic impact is also negative. The Government Party will strengthen advice in continuing training precisely to motivate young people to take proper education choices. The government will strengthen environmental protection. It happens in several areas. Public transport in cities and districts is allowed to increase the risk. In addition, funds are proposed for new walking and cycling roads and for investments in the railways. In the Ministry of the Environment’s field, several proposals are being made, such as: on the means of working against the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. The Government Declaration states that everyone should have a chance of joining broadband by the end of 2007. It's an ambitious goal. But with a total increase of 255 million. kr in the revised budget is the reason why the target is now actually being met. We are not content to stimulate the demand for broadband. Infrastructure is now being developed. It's totally positive. Broadband is a service for scattered construction, district-based business and public sector renewal. It is gratifying that the cost of people's security can be reduced by DKK 2.1 billion in the revised budget. Expenditure estimates have changed in a positive direction. Outlays on sick leave are falling. The same is true of costs of rehabilitating, rehabilitating and renting. In other expenditure chapters for health care purposes, expenditure is increasing. In the revised national budget, the promises are increased for the necessary purposes. At the same time, the use of revenue from the oil and gas industries is significantly reduced. It is an effective contribution not to increase the temperature of the Norwegian economy. The right is saying that our draft budget is too expansive. I disagree with that. The interest rate goes up when the growth is good. In an economy with strong growth, there is no need for the governor to pursue active monetary policies to stimulate growth beyond low interest rates. I point out that the governor recently said the following: ‘The most important thing that is now that we have interest rate increases is that the interest rate was so low — it was so low in Norway, and it was so low out there. [[...]] So it's the eccentricity of the interest rate setting that's the main driving force both out and at home behind the interest rate increases we have. That's our main analysis." I take up proposal No. 104 from the Financial Committee, and would like to recommend the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e220	The representative, Mr. Reidar Sandal, has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e225	I registered that the representative Sandal was concerned about this with access to labour. We know that many people today are waiting for treatment at one of our hospitals, either a private or a public institution. And while waiting for the necessary treatment, you go out of work, get into social arrangements and wait. Wouldn't it make sense at a time when we actually lacked labour in some sectors, that this had now been speeded up with patient treatment, so that the people waiting for treatment get it faster, so that they can get back to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e230	Of course, the government party is concerned that those who need it are treated in hospitals as quickly and effectively as possible. But we're not some of what the bourgeois parties have proposed, that one should create schemes that favor those who get employers to pay for them to move forward in line. We are concerned that we should have an equal offer for all, and that is why, in the current year's budget, we have also arranged for a special effort for the group to which Mr Leirstein is looking for. There are funds - more than half a billion dollars - for precisely facilitating them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e235	Kristin Halvorsen has thought that combating poverty is just a matter of will. Some of those who really have a hard time are inside the drug field. The subject within the Rusfield writes on its website: ‘The country goes so far as to laugh, says the Minister of Finance, and addicts pay the price. A historically poor government budget is being followed up by a historically poorly audited budget. Through the previous health ministers, the Russfield has sat down to the table, at the bottom right, but Brustad pushes the field back under the table. A crown is not allowed to start a bet that has been announced for almost 2 years.» We in the Right are following up our efforts in the budget both in the area of rehabilitation and in the field of poverty reduction, with both money and action. The government seems to see another way. ‘It is not a good certificate for a government with the Workers’ Party in the driver’s seat that the number of poor is increasing.’ This has been taken from a leading article in Fädrelandsvennen, 22 May. I totally agree. There is no good certificate for any government. Why does the Labour Party not have neither the ability nor the will to combat poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e252	I do not accept the starting point nor the conclusion of the representative Skovholt Gitmark. I think it's a distortion of the actual situation. All in all, during the period that the current government has ruled, it has been an active and offensive commitment to health and care. It has been a great real growth in the promises for this purpose, and as late as in the proposal for a revised national budget, which we are now dealing with, the Government has put proposals of 800 million on the table. D more for health purposes, which also opens up for action in the field of rural areas. It's important to prioritize this, it's the government party occupied by. But the reality that Mr Skovholt Gitmark's representative expresses seems to me to be historically and politically incorrect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e257	Everyone's going to, I suppose is an expression that the chairman of the finance committee is well-known. Sandal also talked a lot about a good economy – more at work. At the same time, we see that the Government and the majority are cutting through the specific labour market measures, but claim that the level should be kept as high as in the past. However, we are told that one of our non-governmental organisations, which is involved in the training of drug users and those who come out of prison, must cut off their offers to these groups, which I would think Sandal was interested in getting an offer. So my question is, is this an example of red-green policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e265	I actually mean there's every reason to be proud of the efforts we've made in the labour market. It's just that the representative of the Seven points out that we have an amazingly nice and happy development in the way that unemployment goes down. And in a situation where we have had a strong fall in unemployment and employment continues to rise, the Government maintains the level of labour market measures both for the ordinary and for the special measures. It seemed to me that one takes the situation seriously and is busy that those who have found it particularly difficult to enter the labour market will have a unique opportunity at a time when the labour market is very positive. However, there may be groups that do not get a good enough offer. We take this seriously, and we are working constructively to make better arrangements for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e272	Most people will agree that research is absolutely essential for the country to have a good future, including in terms of jobs, and in terms of democracy we have. In a friendly reply between the representative Sponheim and the representative Sandal on 28 November last year, the representative Sandal said: ‘I do not say that the proposal on the government’s table is ideal for the university and university sector. I want to be ready for that, but I don't think there will be any permanent condition that it should be like this. I can promise the representative Sponheim that I still want a heavy commitment. [[...]] When we come to the revised budget, we see that the cuts of 274 million. kr, which is the theme of the representative Sponheim and the representative Sandal, lies there heavily and rests, and the cutting of the rest seems to be an error. How will the representative Sandal fulfill his heavy commitment, which I am convinced he personally has, in relation to the future in terms of both higher education and research?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e287	Research is an important area for government parties to get good results on. It's our goal and it's still our goal. I fully acknowledge the announcement I made here in the house on 28 November, that the research promise, among other things, was the one I made. The representative of Dørum has been so dissatisfied with, not necessarily a permanent state. I've also said that the solution is not ideal, and it's not just me, it's actually more from the government party that has expressed it. I stress this because I don't want to fall into the trap of defending something that is a one-year measure. We have ambitious targets in this area. There is no great commitment here in the revised budget, but I would like to tell Mr Dørum that he has to look relatively optimistic about the future. I'm at least basing such a outlook on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e296	It's good times in the Norwegian economy. Norwegian business goes down, and a lot of companies want to hire more people. The country receives record revenue through taxes and taxes and direct ownership in the oil and gas sector. At the same time, today's government introduces new universal welfare reforms, and they are promising new welfare reforms, making more and more people dependent on public transfers to get the wheels around and also demanding more hands in the public sector. Is the representative Sandal concerned that more and more people are living from transfers from the public sector, which requires an increasing number of public employees? And if he is concerned, what measures does the representative Sandal Government think should be taken to reduce the number of employees in the public sector, so that more people can get into creative, creative work in the private sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e303	I thought that the starting point and approach of the representative Tybring-Gjedde were distorted. I don't accept the assumption that we have too many members in the public sector. For the government party, it is important that we have many hands in the public sector that can carry out the heavy and important welfare tasks that are one of the very high priority areas for us to get good enough results. We look at what has happened, among other things. in the municipal sector since we took over the government power, it grows, it sprouts, it is optimistic, and the quality of welfare provision has improved. There's every reason to rejoice, and I have to say that the negative approach that Tybrung-Gjedde's representative is based on when he makes it almost as a demeaning thing to live on transfers from state to municipality, I don't accept. But it well illustrates some of the political distance it's in these questions between the Progress Party on one side and us belonging to the Government Party on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e310	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e313	Considerable attention should have been paid to the treatment of the revised state budget. We are in one of the richest countries in the world. The surplus in the state economy totals NOK 338 billion for the current year, and the oil fund can be expected to consist of NOK 2 237 billion at the end of 2007. At the same time, we have major challenges in some areas, which we can solve if we want to. At that time, the revision of the State budget is a real opportunity for government and growth to make an extra effort. So you can take it wrong. The red-green government has presented a revised budget that is almost chemically free of politics. Expenditure that would have been on the state budget more or less in any case is covered under the pretext that this is a bet. At the same time, it is ignored that there are areas of society that lack resources. For the sitting government is obviously good at just that – sitting. There's not much action here. But the government is obviously proud that it will be the first government to abide by the rule of action for the use of the oil billions. Yes, six years after the introduction of the rule, it can actually work like that. For six years, you've been above the rule. And now, as the oil fund is growing at a pace that few could imagine just a few years ago, you will probably argue for years to be below the rule. A little bit of a rule! But let me not make the debate on revised into just a debate on oil money. For the Progress Party, it is important to regard the revision as just it: it is only a revision of the budget adopted by the majority in this Chamber. We take note that our proposals from the State Budget Committee last autumn were voted down. So we're not going to rematch the area by area. We should have such respect for the fact that the decisions taken in relation to the State budget have at least one year's duration. But along the way, there may be conditions that make you need an audit. The Progress Party has therefore consistently considered, in the examination of the revised budget, proposals that can be justified on the basis of an urgent need or that circumstances have changed since the adoption of the State budget. With regard to the so-called use of oil money in our alternative to the revision, as also mentioned by the case-rapporteur in his statement, we are at approximately $3.5 billion more than what the government is now proposing. But that means that we are at the same level as what was a responsible percentage use of oil money – according to the Government – in December. I guess what the government defended in December is longer than just a few months. The Progress Party has three main fields of action in its alternative to the revised budget. In the current situation, it would be wise to use a little more funds for investment in areas where capacity is available, for example: in the construction industry. By providing more funds for this purpose, the available capacity available in the market would be used without creating pressure in the economy. In addition, sensible investment in the road sector would provide better efficiency for business and the population and reduce the level of traffic damage. This would be positive for the economy. After all, the government's own proposals in this area as revised are not a commitment. In addition to the maximum required repair after the event in the Runway Tunnel and grants for some walk and cycle road projects, the Government does not at all charge any additional funds to national road investments. Taking into account the whole area of action of the Government in the road sector, further strengthening of national road investment is urgently needed. Let me remind you – as I said – of the considerable available capacity documented in the national and near-foreign construction industry and the opportunities available to place asphalt work, other maintenance and new facilities on international tenders, with minimal domestic demand impacts. It must be possible to set higher targets for the Government’s concept of ‘historical investment’ on the road network than for roads to decline more slowly than before. The Progress Party believes that maintenance needs to be stepped up immediately, and we propose to allocate significant amounts to improve asphalt and cover improvements during the year and other measures in the field of transport. Increasingly fewer unemployed people and the need for access to labour in many sectors would make it wise to invest in increased and faster patient treatment. This would allow workers waiting for an operation to have them carried out quickly by either public or private institutions, possibly abroad. As a result, savings had been made on public social welfare schemes, while the labour force had been brought back to work more quickly. This would reduce the pressure on the economy. The Progress Party is committed to ensuring adequate resources for regional health businesses, so that patient provision is strengthened, rather than the deterioration we see today. We are disappointed with the government's failure to act in this area. We are listening to the signals that are now coming about constantly cutting, cutting, increasing waiting times and longer waiting lists. The year’s wage settlement in the sector was also higher than assumed, and this will further weaken the economic situation of health enterprises. The Progress Party also believes that there is an urgent need to improve the quality and scale of care services in the country. The Progress Party will therefore propose that in the second half of the year, care for the elderly be strengthened by DKK 1 billion. In order to ensure that these funds go to improved care for the elderly in the current hopeless system of municipal funding and management of the care of the elderly, we have proposed that the funds be earmarked for increasing staff in the care sector. This should be done by attaching, in particular, to better medical coverage requirements in hospitals, since this is too low in most places. Today, we have a justice sector characterised by too little visible police force, too low an investigative and clarification share, too long a response time and too many unoccupied police positions. The result of this is that we get a public space of increasing insecurity as a result of organised recriminal crime, blind violence, rapes, obvious illegal activity such as. drug trafficking and visible decay such as tagging and infesting. People experience a growing insecurity in everyday life when the police don't go as far as it should. About 300 jobs are unoccupied in the Norwegian police. More than half of these unannounced posts relate to Oslo, and in Oslo, the police have a particularly demanding crime scene to deal with. In the districts, the introduction of new working time regulations will, at the same time, exacerbate the situation by forcing the police to cooperate closely in large geographical areas. This means that the time of the phone call could increase dramatically, and criminals could experience getting several hours of lead on the police. Such a development we are now seeing goes in the opposite direction to building a safer society and a more visible and present police force. The government's strengthening of police operational budgets is insufficient to meet the real needs of the police. This applies both to fill job vacancies across the country and to maintain a close police force with police posts in e.g. different urban areas of Oslo. The Progress Party will therefore further strengthen the police, in order to remedy the acute situation. Let me also say a few words about what we have done in the tax and tax area in the revised version. If there is to be some effect with tax relief on E85 cars, a significant cut must be made. The government has added up to NOK 10 000 in the one-off fee. It'll mean a little bit. The Progress Party proposes a reduction of DKK 50 000. It is cut in the order of magnitude that you have to adopt if you actually want to and believe that the market is going to buy this type of car. We also propose that the NOx fee be abolished from 1 July 2007. In fact, the situation of coastal boats and maritime transport is more threatened by this charge than many would think when the charge was imposed. We can't sit still and see that this huge fee should simply defeat companies and boats. Here it must take immediate action, and this can be done by Stortingen – by removing the whole fee. I note that the government parties do not change the position in relation to the Government's proposal. That's what we've been used to in the finance committee and in most other committees here in the Stortinget. However, there is something special when you hear all the good and sensible input we get as big-time representatives through hearings and via inquiries, that nothing seems to get through at the government parties here in the house. Perhaps that is why the number of organisations and others who want to consult our committee and other committees has begun to shrink considerably. But for the Progress Party, it is at least important to make serious recordings. We have done just that with our proposal for revision. I am addressing the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting in the vote, either alone or in conjunction with other parties, and those that are distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e358	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e363	In the setting we are now debating, the Progress Party proposes that municipalities should be given a €1 billion eartag for an elderly person who can "skin" as expressed in the text. Earlier this week, the same party, the Progress Party, proposed that one remove the municipal right to have property tax. This year, municipalities charge SEK 4.4 billion in property taxes, and I refer to the assessments and calculations made in the national budget for this year. My question to the representative of Leirstein is therefore: Does the Progress Party believe that we can get an elderly care as skin, by removing DKK 3.4 billion from the income of the municipalities and thus greatly exacerbate their economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e372	The Progress Party really believes that with our arrangement for the financing of care for the elderly in the whole country, we would just have an old-age care that shines. The problem today is that each municipality receives a pot of money, and then you have to dispose of it yourself. Despite the fact that there are large distances in Kommune-Norway, there are many places where you will have some challenges with these transfers, even if the transfers have increased. We find that care for the elderly does not shine. When the Progress Party then wants a direct transfer from the State to the individual user, this would be ensured, regardless of whether you have property taxes or not. So for property taxes: Yes, the Progress Party is to remove the property tax. We're proud that we're actually the party in this hall that is actually to remove the entire property tax law, so you shouldn't have the opportunity to recover this unfair tax. There was no problem for many Norwegian municipalities not to have property taxes, despite the fact that they may also have been committed to care for the elderly. In all the progressive party-driven municipalities, it is ensured not to have property taxes, but to work to get an old-age care that shines. So this won't be a problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e379	The Progress Party is an all-rounder, both in bag and bag: less taxes and taxes, more money for well-being, more investment for roads. No one can oppose this if he is not responsible for the whole. – So also in the revised national budget: plus NOK 3.5 billion. In the budget for this year, there is a tax relief of DKK 26 billion, partly financed by development aid and agriculture of DKK 16 billion. There is a public criticism of this from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, last in the United Nations on 11 June. In yesterday's debate, the representative Kielland Asmyhr said: ‘It is also not in line with the Code of Good Organisational Culture of the Advance Party to act in this way.’ Does the representative of Mr Leirstein agree with the representative of Mr Kielland Asmyhr that public criticism from the rapporteurs of economic policy is contrary to the organisational culture of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e393	I have not seen the statements to which the representative Lundtigen refers. But let me first say: the entrance to the question here is that the party of progress is supposedly the party that is above all others. However, I note that when we are discussing economic policy, it is true that it is not that long ago that the Central Party and the representative Lundtigen were also concerned with increased investment, for example. to the road sector. I even remember a look at the TV 2 news last summer, where Lundtägen was out and promised that now it was really going to be a lift on the road. Nevertheless, Norwegian roads continue to fall, and national road investments do not amount to what they should actually be. So who overwhelms who, you might want to have a discussion on. So to rules for what is good organizational culture in the Progress Party. In the Progress Party, we are engaged in good and lively debates. We have big debates about all the programme posts we had to have at our national meeting at all times, and I also assume that the Central Party has good debates on this. But once the Progress Party has established a policy for four years, of course we in the Group of the Progressive Party will deal with it and promote that policy. That someone chooses to have divergent visions, and possibly thinks something about it in the media, we can live well with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e402	Looking at the economic policy of the Progress Party is always exciting. Equally exciting is looking at the climate policy of the Progress Party, and it would have been okay if the representative Leirstein could update us on whether it is such that the Progress Party currently believes that the climate change we are seeing is man-made. In addition to this, it is easy to see here that the Progress Party suddenly in the revised budget is making up 120 million. kr to railway. We all remember that they cut $2 billion by rail for Christmas. This must, of course, be called the turnaround of the century in railway policy by the Progress Party. Is it the case that the Progress Party and the representative of Leirstein admit that what they did for Christmas by cutting on the railway was a great deal, that they now realize that they did wrong, and that instead they will bet on the railway in the time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e410	If the representative Holmås had been involved in what the Progress Party proposed in its alternative state budget for 2007, I think his issue would have been slightly different. What we did last, was also to bet on the railway in the areas of this country where the railway will actually pay off, and where the railway should be strengthened. Then you have many other types of projects on the railway side that we have little faith in will succeed. Now that we're dealing with the revised budget, we've seen that in some areas where a large part of the population actually lives, we need to have some more money for the railways. But since we're in the middle of a fiscal year, we're not going in and we're starting to cut the operating budget and the maintenance budget that's already been allocated to other areas in Norway. We come back to our whole railway policy when we're going to discuss the alternative state budget for the autumn. So to the climate: the representative would like to have an update on what is the climate policy of the Progress Party. I guess we'll have a long debate on climate next Tuesday in Odelstinget, and then, of course, we'll get back to this. I just notice that there are many researchers who partly disagree with the reality of the representative Holmås, about what is man-made and not man-made. And then I see that we have some challenges, and we will solve them through good, constructive proposals that we, among other things, have. comes back to the next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e417	Today, we are also discussing a proposal from representatives of Leirstein and Eriksson to introduce a new tax savings model and to reintroduce annuities. I therefore allow myself to ask a question about it. My starting point is that the Progress Party always looks at itself as those who represent most people here in the country. Distribution tables show that most people — i.e. the half that serves the least – hardly affected by such a proposal, because it is the half of the population that serves the most, who receives 85 pst. of the fiscal aggravation under the previous IPA scheme. Does the Progress Party see that this tax-subsidized saving is disparately unfavourable and that this does not benefit most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e424	If it is that you are very opposed to these kinds of arrangements because this scheme supposedly only benefits those who are very rich in this country, it is strange that the Workers' Party first goes in to remove the scheme, so to speak, to put things back in place again – but it is certainly the representative of Aasen Agdestein who can respond on a later occasion. What I find out is that with the figures we get from the companies that have these types of savings products, good statistics can be provided that there are ordinary people in Norway who actually have IPA and who have annuity agreements. It's automatically putting all these people in a booth and saying that they're so very rich, I think falls on their own unfairness. So this is very positive, it encourages people to save. For very many ordinary people, this has been good savings products, which you want to save for your future pension. I think it is sad that you create so much uncertainty about a system that you have now done. Those who are very rich are doing themselves, and they're doing well without IPS and annuity. They have other arrangements and will not be affected by them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e431	I'll follow up my line instead. It's municipal elections. The Progress Party has rapporteurs and rapporteur candidates in the countryside, rapporteurs who would like to think something clearly public. They respond to the economic policy pursued by the Progress Party. They say it publicly. Yesterday they received a sharp correction in the hall, that it is contrary to the rules of the Party's organisational culture, and the representative also said that 'we still have a good use for our course in good organisational culture'. I have to get a clear answer: Does the representative of Leirstein agree with the representative of Kielland Asmyhr in the representative of Kielland Asmyhr – yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e440	I was not present myself and heard this debate yesterday. I don't know what the representative Kielland Asmyhr said yesterday. For the time being, I have just had to believe what Lundtigen claims he has said is what I have to take for good fish. So I do not choose to do that, and the representative of Lundtigen must not think that is bad. What the representative Kielland Asmyhr has said, he gets an answer. But the starting point, what Lundtigen says about very many local rapporteur candidates for the Progress Party disagree with the economic policy of the Progress Party, it surprises me. So I'm a fiscal spokesman for the Progress Party, and I've had the pleasure of being it for almost two years. There are no local politicians in the Progress Party who have come to me, who are fiscal spokespersons, to say that they disagree with the economic policy of the Progress Party. I note that in almost all areas, the programme on which we went to the elections in 2005 was, in fact, unanimously adopted by our national meeting. I'm dealing with that, and it's certainly also about the representative Kielland Asmyhr when we discuss these questions in this room as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e445	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e448	This spring has been marked by some major debates. The most important of these relates to the fact that we are undermining the life base of our descendants and to the need for measures that can help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The second concerns the need to improve the quality of care for the elderly and to correct the dramatic cuts made by the Government in the provision of private rehabilitation facilities. The third relates to the government’s lack of willingness to invest in tomorrow’s well-being – in the gold year 2007 itself, the government chooses to cut higher education and take a break in research. The fourth debate is about overheating the economy — the lack of labour and the rise in interest rates. The revised national budget has been a major disappointment — no environmental measures that could alert the start of the policy-making process that most of us believe we need to go through, no measures that can increase the quality of care, and the government is just sitting there watching 85 000 treatment days at the private training institutions. Research continued to cut, and the Government is leaving the Bank of Norway to tighten up through higher interest rates. Every time criticism is made of the government’s lack of action, we hear the same record that it is the fault of the previous government. Now it is high time that the Stoltenberg government began to take responsibility for its own policies. The consideration of the revised national budget of the Financial Committee has been almost even more disappointing – none, at all, of the willingness to consider the input and suggestions of the opposition or of those who have been at the hearing. The parties to the Government are completely passive. Yes, even when an overall opposition promotes Krass criticism of the Government, for example. in the case of the lifting breach relating to the industrial power regime, we shall meet nothing but a wall of silence. It's like boxing cotton -- no response, no resistance, no arguments. It almost seems as if the Government feels the Storting as something a little unnecessary. Yes, they have a majority. On the way, however, the open democratic debate and the interplay of Parliament disappear. A majority government may choose to act so arrogantly towards the Storting, but it is particularly unwise. Environmental problems start with my and your everyday choices. That means that the solution is also in the behavior of the individual. It's when people demand environmentally friendly cars and energy-saving products, that businesses start producing them. It is in the interaction between ambitious policy objectives and instruments that play with business and people's choices that the results come. The market economy is a powerful instrument that can be used in the service of the environment. On the right, research in climate research will escalate, we will reduce taxes on environmentally friendly cars, we will build crossing tracks to get more goods from road to rail, and together with the Left, we will propose a support scheme for climate municipalities – municipalities that, together with business, implement measures that reduce local greenhouse gas emissions. The right-hand proposal is – of course – voted down by the government parties. There is no doubt that there are challenges, and some of them are big. The right answer is to bet on people, on people who stand on every single day at work, at home and in leisure, to create their own future and mean something to others. It is people who are trying to find the solutions to the climate challenges that threaten the lives of billions of people. There are people who will help the many who have fallen outside, to get a new chance to deliver and mean something to themselves and to others. And not least, there are people who are going to develop the welfare community and public services, so that we can meet increasing needs and expectations in the future. Therefore, the Right will focus more on people, on our children, by extending the school day to several math classes, on our students, by increasing support for universities, colleges and research, on the care workers by providing greater opportunities for continuing education. Several unskilled workers must have the opportunity to become skilled. More help nurses need to be given the opportunity to become nurses. We get more quality in care when we focus more on the people who work in care. Right will have a boost for rehabilitation. It's about making the way back to a worthy life and work shorter for those who have been exposed to accidents, for those who have been through a serious illness, or for those with drug problems. Rehabilitation sites are being laid down throughout the country. Place is laid down not because they are bad, but because they are private. In many places, patients receive a lower offer and a less diverse offer. Of course, it is not possible to flip over into a budget in the middle of the year, but the Right points out another way. We take small steps towards more knowledge in school and better quality of care, and we provide more security in the community through, among other things. to propose more money to the police. We are experiencing a growth in consumption and an increase in expenditure that should be of concern to the Minister of Finance. For the first time since 1987 the total saving of households is now negative. This means that the total housing investment of households is fully financed by a loan. In addition, there is a loan to finance consumption, and for the first time since 2002, the public expenditure growth has been higher than that of mainland GDP. When Kristin Halvorsen presents an expansive budget in today's situation, and does not want to implement reforms that can lead to more labour, she denies responsibility for economic development and leaves the Bank of Norway to dampen the economic cycle through higher interest rates. The right is concerned about getting the good times to last longer. We believe that there is a need for more supply-side policies, reforms that allow us to increase the growth capacity of the economy, and we believe that there is a need for a somewhat tighter economic environment. Of course, it's limited what is possible to do in a couple of short weeks in the middle of the year, but we're pointing out a different direction. The right hand side has been able to tighten up by over 700 million. kr through, inter alia: reducing the growth of public administration, slightly lower transfers to agriculture and 1 pst. higher matmoms. I record that some people have little faith in the Right's proposal to stimulate saving, and that it will help people save more. However, I fear that the government's proposal to remove private pension savings schemes and increased wealth taxes will result in people saving less and consumers more. In other European countries, private pension savings provide substantial tax benefits. Many of these countries have significantly higher private savings than we do in Norway. I believe that an offensive policy for increased private savings will help to dampen the growth of private consumption. A narrowing of 700 million. kr in the revised national budget has isolated a limited effect on interest rates. However, in combination with an active policy to increase labour supply, both through labour immigration and by getting more from social security to work, and increasing tax benefits from private pension saving and structural measures that increase the growth capacity of the economy, I believe that the Right Alternative is better adapted to both the short-term and the long-term challenges of the economy. TV 2 could tell last week that the Prime Minister promised the pensioners that the Government would remove the curtailment of the pension for pensioners working – yes, he said it would happen ‘as soon as possible’. He saw the pensioners into his eyes, and he got the tramp in return. Yesterday, Minister of Labour Bjarne Håkon Hanssen said that ‘as soon as possible’ is in 2010 – in fact almost a year after this Stoltenberg government has most likely left. Yes, a proposal that the Prime Minister's laws will be implemented as quickly as possible. It says everything about the Government, about the breakup and the paralysis of action. Yes, it is simply not appropriate to act so indecently in meeting with the voters. I am pleased that the non-socialist parties stand together. We are promoting proposals in which we ask the Government to fulfill the Prime Minister's promise. If the proposal is put to the vote today, the last remainder of the government's credibility disappears. I would like to address the proposals where the Right is the author or co-rapporteur, with the exception of the Right's proposal No. 63, which is replaced by a joint proposal from the non-socialist parties, proposal No. 103. I also refer to proposal No. 106, which by an incubation has been formulated a little clumsy, so to speak – it went a little fast – so that proposal is to be amended to: ‘The Government is asking the Government to follow up Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg’s promise to the Norwegian Pensioners’ Association to remove the curtailment of the retirement pension for 67-70-year-olds working. It is assumed that the proposal will take effect from 1 January 2008.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e506	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e511	Right, and not least the financier, Jan Tore Sanner, boasts of his 122 million. kr in tightening and proclaiming, as far as I could see on VG Net, that the Government's arrangements will give an interest shock. Now let's think about what the right one is suggesting. One hundred and fifty-seven million. kr is the sale of property, which does not have a suspensive effect. Then the Right proposes to remove the chocolate charge from December 1, 2007. But the right does not introduce any proceeds of this proposal. At least it's somewhere between 90 and 100 million. kr. Then there's not much left. Is it so to understand that the Right presupposes, in order to be able to cover its own budgets, that no chocolate should be sold in December? Can the Right confirm that they don't think it's not going to be sold chocolate in December? How are they gonna do that? Do they have contact with any other powers than what we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e522	Let's hear that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e525	I record that Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Bjarne Håkon Hanssen was out in today's business a few days ago and boasted that labour immigration to Norway implies that we have 1.5 pst. lower interest than what we would otherwise have had. When the right then presents comprehensive proposals that will both involve more labour through labour migration, more from social security to work, labour-stimulating tax relief, structural measures that increase the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy, measures that increase savings incentives and, in addition, tighten financial policy, it is obvious that it will have an impact on interest rates. But Bjarne Håkon Hanssen boasts 1.5 pst. as a result of labour immigration to Norway. So you have to look at the whole thing in our setup. I was clear in my post that a tightening of 700 million was over. kr in isolation has a limited effect. However, it needs to be seen in the context of the structural measures to which the Right also refers, which will contribute to increasing the growth capacity of the economy. This will lead to better economic development, both in the short and longer term.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e533	The right-hand side proposes to tighten up the AFP scheme for more 62- and 63-year-olds to work. As a representative of the group who is uncomfortably fast approaching that age, I have some understanding of this goal. I believe that we still have a lot to contribute. But what makes me take up the theme in the line is the way the right does it. The AFP Agreement is a mechanism negotiated by the social partners, with the participation of the State. Is the Right’s view that concluded agreements can be broken by one party, without prior negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e540	We already took this up when the AFP agreement was extended a few years ago. We believe that in the situation we are in now, we need more labour. We know that there are some 62- and 63-year-olds who are being squandered out of the labour market because of the AFP scheme. If we could raise the age limit or make a little tighter for the 62s and 63s, we'd get more labour. We know that part of the people who go off with the AFP, after a year or two really want them to stay in work. So the Right Wish is that we should try to keep the older labour force a little bit longer in the workplace, and that's also why we want to remove the curtailment of the pension, not in 2010, but as quickly as possible, so that we can also motivate that group to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e545	The representative Sanner uses a lot of strong words. Revised is a great disappointment. At the same time, dry right to change for a total of 722 million. kr in the case of reductions in the State budget, of which 672 million. in respect of small incomes to farmers, who have agreed. The emphasis on the climate is placed on the right-hand side. For us in the Center Party, that means, among other things. less exhaust gas and more renewable energy. Renewable energy gets one through, among others. photosynthesis, and it is the farmer who is to produce. That's not much new. Otherwise, the main line of the Right in the budget is lower interest as a result of their proposals. Today’s Economy writes: ‘Hear fiscal spokesman Jan Tore Sanner shall have points of decency’. It's a good chat. But what does the representative Sanner say about the title of the executive article in today's business on 8 June, 'Higher interest rate rate rate'? Is that untrue?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e554	You can read that in today's Business today, where I answer that article. I find it interesting that Lundtigen uses the blue-breasted newspaper – which he usually stamps it as – as a witness of truth. I have now, in several articles, got the whole of the Right configuration, where there are structural measures, more labour and a somewhat tighter structure, which we believe overall provides a better setup. It strikes me that every time Lundtigen takes a line, it's about agricultural policy. Think if he could get a little more involved with the poorest in Norway. On the right, a comprehensive action to combat poverty in Norway is presented. We are making extensive proposals to launch the policy-making process in Norway. But we meet with a wall of silence from the government parties, including Lundtigen. Think if we could have a little dialogue about some of the main challenges that Norway is facing. But there we meet with silence and arrogance and little willingness to cooperate from the government parties in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e565	Jan Tore Sanner used some of his minutes to talk about climate. I'm glad. I am pleased that the Right now seems to be coming on the offensive also in that debate. One of the measures he mentioned is cheaper environmentally friendly cars. As far as I know, it has been the case that the car charge system we provided at New Year works as it should. The average emissions of the average car are falling. That's very good. The problem with the Right is that they have promised the voters that the cars will be much cheaper. I have a look-up here, with a very nice picture of fiscal spokesman Peter Skovholt Gitmark, who a year ago, when we presented our car package, said about the car charges: “We have to reduce the car charges by at least three billion kroner.” I am very familiar with the fact that the Right in the State budget for this year and in the revised total reduced the car charges by a little less than 300 million. kr. Can Sanner explain to the Norwegian people where the remaining SEK 2.7 billion in reduced car charges have ended?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e579	Interestingly, such questions are raised from government parties running like rats from a sinking ship from their election vows. We are taking steps in the right direction, and we reacted to the government increasing the tax on the most environmentally friendly cars, the flexible cars, in the state budget for 2007. More than half of the flexifuel cars are sold by Saab, and for them the fee went up from NOK 10000 to NOK 90 000. I believe in the market economy and people's everyday choices as a powerful tool to solve environmental problems. But then, as politicians, we have to play with consumers. Then we have to make sure that the environmentally friendly cars get cheaper. And I can promise the Micasen that the Right is going to follow up on the next state budget to make the environmentally friendly cars cheaper, so that we can start a completely necessary environmental policy reverse operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e586	The President would point out that a very poor parliamentary language was used to characterise co-representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e589	Yeah, calling us rats is going to be Jan Tore Sanner's thing. If I, for example, had set up an arrogance contest with Jan Tore Sanner, so I think I'd lost every single time from here into eternity. I think that's proved by Jan Tore Sanner in the lines that have now been. When, as a fiscal spokesman with a high cigarette drive, we say that our alternative state budget is going to lead to a fall in interest rates, then it requires – at least I would do it as a recipient of the message – that we have some references and good professional evidence to point to. Per Olaf Lundtigen referred to today's business life. And in the class struggle today, Hallvard Bakke – he’s an old worker partyer – says that ‘Hear Jan Tore Sanner has the gift of fraternity’. So from the extreme left to the most market-liberalist one points out what is from Jan Tore Sanner, and I ask: can he document this professional in any way?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e598	When the government presented its revised national budget, several economists went out and said that this would lead to increased pressure on interest rates. Vice-Central Bank Chief Jarle Bergo believed that budgetary policy had become more expansive than assumed. Right-wing proposals where we reduce expenditure growth, but I think it is more important that we increase labour supply and that we implement structural reforms that will increase the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. I record that the Minister of Labour was out and said that labour immigration has led to 1.5 pst. lower interest rate than what we would otherwise have had. I have no doubt that our proposal will help to dampen the interest rate pressure. But when we talk about arrogance, what I've mentioned is that when the Storting Financial Committee spends one month discussing the revised national budget, the government parties do not comment on a single remark from the opposition parties. One does not at all show the willingness to cooperate and does not listen to our proposals, either in terms of poverty, the environment or any of the other ideas we have recorded.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e607	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e611	Five years and four days ago, the orphanage agreement was concluded. Everyone should be entitled to a reduced-price nursery. The Soria Moria statement followed it up. And the number of figures five years and four days later is clear: from the budget year after a unanimous increase in the nursery arrangement, there are 71,000 new all-day kindergartens built, and 46 000 new children have children's playgrounds during the year. In total, we expect that by the end of 2007, a total of 251,000 children will go to kindergarten. Only after our government took over has a formidable 38 900 kindergartens been built. It is also the case that in the revised national budget this year, we are adding to an increase in the estimate of the expansion of kindergartens from more than 19 000 kindergartens up to 22 500. This is a formidable bet. This is something we are proud to have been given the opportunity to take the initiative, and we note that several of the parties that in their time helped to conclude this unanimous agreement, today – and in the past – are running from the agreement concluded by, among other things. to increase the nursery price. And I notice that Jan Tore Sanner from the Right at all does not estimate the importance of the job offer because he and Right increase the kindergarten price by 300 kroner a month. But one should not be Einstein to understand that more expensive nursery places mean that fewer people will take advantage of the offer and thus the opportunity to go out to work. To give parents a real freedom of choice, it was a very important requirement that we lowered the nursery price. It's got to go down. We do this in the municipality by municipality. In Beiarn, the SV Frigg-Ottar Us has got free children's gardens, and this has led to all children in the municipality going to kindergarten, and has made sure that more people do it. In Oslo, we expand the trials on free nursery services. We make sure that several of those who need it most come to kindergarten. This is important to us. This is one of the most important choices of SV, and we're doing it. Every single time we present a budget, the government makes sure that this great welfare project that we have committed is actually being implemented. I'm proud of that, and that's what the government and I agree is an important investment. It's very much positive to track off the stakes in this budget. We get to the bet on fruit and green. So we're going to put fruit and vegetables in every high school. We're experimenting with all day school, both with free school meals at some point and with an extension of hours, because we believe this is the most important thing to continue with what our government has tackled, namely that one of the biggest challenges for school as a result of four years of Right School and many years of school policy that has not worked well enough is a drop-out in high school that has been alarmingly high. In professional studies in some of the northernmost states, we have a decline of about 50 pst. and upwards. We're doing something about this with a bet on advice. We're doing something about it when it comes to grips with people's early learning processes. We have a great commitment to environmental protection, and I think it's quite fascinating to listen to the Right, because – it's also been taken up in today's business – they didn't get a marketing order until they left the government offices. Now we come up with a proposal for a trading order in the budget we are presenting, which is more ambitious than any party in the opposition has proposed in the past. We'll make sure to put the 5pst in place. marketing obligations in 2009. As far as I remember, the Left's proposal was earlier on 2 pst, and 4 pst. in 2010. So we're going to start with a step-up right away. This is a large-scale commitment to climate and CO2 reduction. That's why I think the criticism from Jan Tore Sanner falls on his own unreasonableness. The economic situation is such that the unemployment rate after we take over is halved. That's how we've gotten the lowest unemployment we've had in the last 20 years. We are proud of this, and the fact that we maintain the high level of investment in labour market measures allows us to manage to get some of the people who have been unemployed in the past to come back to work. We are the first government to present a budget that is below the rule of action, sending out a clear signal to the market and others who are listening to us intend to pursue a policy and control the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e629	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e632	The representative Heikki Holmås used much of his post to tell us how good SV is on kindergarten policy, and that's what they spent a lot of their time on in the last election campaign – that it was going to be full child care coverage. I'm from Buskerud. One of the worst municipalities in Buskerud in terms of child care coverage is the Lower Eiker, which is governed by the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party. There are growing queues for our little rolls, which come in kindergarten queues. When we look at the neighbouring municipality, Drammen, which is governed by the Advance Party and the Right, we abolish the kindergarten cows. I quote the Minister of Finance, who, according to Drammen's Official Journal, said in the TV 2 news: ‘The despairing young children’s parents, who now feel too slow in their own municipality, should have it high on the list when deciding who to choose for the harvest.’ Is Heikki Holmås’ advice to despairing little children’s parents in the Lower Eiker the same?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e644	The answer to that is yes. You have to make sure to vote on the parties that fulfill the promises they have given. I don't know the situation in the Lower Eiker in detail, but I know the situation in this town, Oslo. We have the largest nursery cows in the country. There is no doubt that the City Council, where the Progress Party and the Right are running, promised full child care coverage by the 2007 elections, i.e. by August. We see very clearly that it is absolutely not possible to satisfy at all. There is only one reason for this – one has come too slow with this important, big effort to expand kindergartens. The first year of the Advance Party, together with the Right, ran here in Oslo, I guess you had a kindergarten expansion of about 300 places. Now you've got a big kindergarten extension. But the really big bet happened only after we got a government that was serious about reaching the goal of full child care coverage, namely the red-green government, our government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e649	The representative Holmås spoke a lot about kindergartens, as he says is one of the most important election vows. We did not hear anything about the other important thing, namely the fight against poverty. The representative of Skovholt Gitmark quoted in a reply to the committee leader earlier today The Board of Directors of the Rusfield, who writes on their websites that it is the addicts who pay the price. And on that it is ‘a historically poor government budget, followed by a historically poorly audited budget. Through the previous health ministers, the Russfield has sat down until the table, right at the bottom, but Brustad pushes the field back under the table. A crown is not allowed to start a bet that has been announced for almost 2 years». This quote defecated the committee leader as false premises and false conclusions. Does the representative Holmås have the same arrogant attitude toward those sitting at the bottom of the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e661	No, no, no. I believe that we have worked well, but that we have no reason to be content until we have abolished poverty here in Norway. I think it's right to say that many of the people who are heavy drug addicts have to live off are social assistance. We have tried to escalate this social assistance by increasing the indicative norms for social assistance rates. We've increased the children's supplement for a lot of different benefits. We have made sure that unemployment goes down, which is an important contribution to ensuring that more people do not become poor. We come up with some universal arrangements, for example. fruit and vegetables at school. We know that the previous scheme that lasted for years had a very distorted social profile. As for the drugs field, there's no doubt that we have a big stake there, and we're following the escalation plan within the psychiatry, which a broad majority in the Stortinge have agreed to. The fact that we are going to present an action plan on the drugs field shows that these are things we are addressing – and not forgetting the community economy and its strengthening.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e668	In the last two budget debates, I have asked the representative Holmås about the situation of rubrics. In both cases, the representative referred to what was to come, a proper upgrade, a bet, an escalation plan. The situation in the drug sector after SV has been in government for almost two years is a major deterioration. Still younger children go into congested environments. There's been almost as much recruitment to the drug community in Oslo in the first four months of this year as last year. Health surveillance is alarming: there is a unilateral commitment to drug and outpatient treatment, shorter long-term treatment, lack of coherence in services, a reduction in the number of rehabilitation sites, and many are not defined as rights spaces that should have become it. There are many who are seriously concerned. The only organisational grip taken by the government is to facilitate 100 new poles, in addition to a 50 million bet. NOK, and a little bit more last year. My question is: why hasn't the drug action plan come? I know what the government has tried to do, but why hasn't it come?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e675	I don't have a good answer to that, except to say that it's coming, because this is about doing something about the troubles of the people who are the most outnumbered. It's very, very important. I believe that the job we have done in relation to ensuring that the local economy is cleaned up, for example. In a city like Oslo, you have more money to do a job on all kinds of fronts, and it is important to address this in those municipalities that have the biggest challenges. There is no doubt that Oslo is the municipality in the country that has the biggest challenges and has a good deal to do, and that it is important that they prioritise their work in the field of drugs. It's quite right, as the representative Laila Davøy says, that it's about the whole of the offer. We could like to have a discussion about the organisation of care and look at how those things were changed during the previous government. We had some debates where some of us would like to disagree with all the parts of the reorganisation that were taking place. But I think this is a debate that we need to spend more time finding out what are the important measures to help those people who have drug problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e682	In the election campaign almost two years ago, there were very many from the red-green camp of politicians who promised the industry political power prices and cheap power. In the revised national budget we are dealing with today, the Government is in effect saying the same thing as the previous government, that this is difficult or impossible to achieve because of the EEA provisions, and that prices must be set in the market rather than in the government offices. On Wednesday we had an unusually rare concentration of testosterone in front of the Storting Building, it was claimed that politicians lacked balls – and there were probably especially red-green politicians in this context. But according to the newspapers, the Council of State has promised to keep the promises. Is the effort to get policy-determined and low prices for the electricity industry something the representative Holmås will give priority to the next few months?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e689	Every time the representative Lars Sponheim is in the room, we have an unusually high concentration of testosterone in the hall, so we're used to it. [[Laughter]] I would like to refer to what the Minister for Oil and Energy has said in that matter in a press release in connection with the revised national budget, and to what was said by him and the Minister for Industry in relation to the demonstration that was on Wednesday, that is, that this is something we are working on and that we have ambitions to move on with. We're working on that case. I'm going to be able to contribute to this, because this is something we have mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration, and that is decided upon in my party's organs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e696	The president would point out that even if you're eager, it might be a little age-old to be a little balanced in the use of words.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e700	When there's a competition for arrogance, I don't know who would have won. But when there is a competition for self-confidence, I believe that the representative Heikki Holmås is very high on the list. A self-crust should be a known listener, as it usually comes from the heart. It'll do it in this case as well. There's almost one thing that this excellent government can't fix. When it comes to unemployment, it goes down, and the employment goes up, and it comes from, according to the representative Holmås, the government's excellent policy. But when, on the other hand, interest rate increases apply, there is something for which the Government has no responsibility. It comes from the international boom, for which, of course, the Government has no responsibility whatsoever. It's kind of hard to see this context. So I could imagine that the representative Holmås could explain more: how does the decline in unemployment come from the excellent policy of the Government, while the rise in interest rates does not come from the government's policy, that there are no grounds for this? How does it feel that the government is responsible for the one thing, and the other is not responsible for the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e708	I don't want to participate in a competition for self-crust. But I think it's important to realize that part of the promises we've made, and give, we're actually following up on practical policies. The children's hail, which is one of the most important promises we have made, we follow up on practical policies, and I think that's important to say. But we're not satisfied – and I think it's very important to underline – because society will have challenges all the time. And as I said earlier to one of the replicators, I'm not satisfied with the situation that we have poor people here in the country. I am not satisfied until we have managed to eliminate poverty. So the unemployment rate and the interest rate. I am very pleased that the Progress Party acknowledges that there is a link between unemployment and interest rates, and that it also means, I suppose, that the Progress Party ends up on policy, when, after all, they have had an impact on the part of the policy that is about having an inflation target for the central bank that makes interest rates normalise between 5 and 6 p.m. But I think there's a difference between not running an active labour market policy and doing what our government is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e717	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e720	I do not know whether the Minister of Finance sometimes recalls in his silent mind the old saying that ‘there is going to be a strong back to carrying good days’. For the good days, they're knowing now, and it's today's political actions and course presentation that will give political challenges in a few years' time – on good and bad. In the revised budget, the government has been helped by an economic situation that is quite unique. Revenue is increasing in the billions class, different public-interest companies are going so well that dividends are high in record terms, and the cost of popular-security is reduced by over DKK 2 billion. In total, it gives almost 5 billion dollars plus compared to the budget adopted — a dream situation — at least if you have a strong back. For the temptations lie there, the tasks are many, and the short-term can easily distort the long-term. The almost ten interest rate increases from Norway’s Bank in less than two years remind us of the long-term challenge: ensuring a balanced development in the Norwegian economy, where the use of oil money contributes to such a development — and does not counteract it. In line with this, the rule of action should now be used as intended, namely to reduce the oil-corrected budget deficit. The main challenge lies here, too: how do the good days of budgetary policy bear so that we do not risk that Business Norway and those with high mortgages will have to pay for lack of action – or should we say resistance – on the part of politicians? In our revised budget, we use slightly less than the government spends, but I'm not going to say in any way that there's going to be a difference in interest rates. What is important, however, is the overall signals for the financial years ahead. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we make changes to the tax arrangements, including: with stronger environmental incentives. We reiterate our desire for – and the need for – environmental cooperation across the blocks. I guess no one has considered a Christian People's Party to be the spirit and tobacco's foremost weaponist. We adjust the charges on these goods, though – and it is important to say – on a much smaller scale than the individual has found too well to inform the public. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we also want to stimulate increased savings. Therefore, we return to the individual pension saving with tax deductions. It can also have a positive effect on the economy as a whole. In a situation where we have a shortage of labour, about 25 000 people are in line for vocational rehabilitation. It is strange that the Government does not use the occasion for a power take-off in this area. Instead, the allocation was cut. We see that the provision of work training to drug users and those leaving prison is being dropped. It's a kind of red-green policy I don't understand. The Christian People's Party proposes in its revised budget a strengthening of family policy. We do that by strengthening the paper issue by one week, and by improving the rights of women entrepreneurs in the context of pregnancy and childbirth. Strengthening student-children's gardens and family protection is also a priority in the revised budget, as well as strengthening the voluntary sector, among others. in the case of the school sector and Freefonds. The government's care message was dealt with earlier in ours. Unfortunately, there was no binding plan, as we in the Christian People's Party had seen possible. In the revised budget we follow up from our side, among others. with a strengthening of the rehabilitation sites and with a stimulus to the elderly centres. We are also very impatient in the drugs sector. We're still waiting for a long planned drug plan. Many addicts want treatment, but they don't get it. Many institutions have vacancies, but do not have finances. Something should happen here – and we are doing something in the revised budget. I would also like to say that the Information Service's fund should have been treated in a completely different way. Here we risk that workers get a worse situation, by, among other things, orphanages are not rehabilitated, something else they could have been. Finally, we in the Christian People's Party felt that there was some kind of invitation to cooperate in relation to the revised budget. Then we could have done something for those who are struggling with their drug problems, and we could have done something about family protection and the health and care sector. We must note that there was no desire for such cooperation. We think that's gross, not because we absolutely need to cooperate with the government parties, but because there are a lot of things that would deserve a better solution than the revised budget provides. I'll bring this up with our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e753	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e758	It's been a year and a half since the Bondevik II government released its last budget – for a long time, we all hope. It seems to us that 150 years ago. That's why I want to repeat a little bit of the story from then on. The infant supplement was cut. The appropriations for the SFO were cut. The equity ratios for the elderly and the disabled were reintroduced. The appropriations forrenewal measures were cut. One suggested removing the net pay scheme for seafarers. An extended pay obligation under leave of absence. And it was proposed – and adopted – a tax bill of 12 billion kroner. Does the Christian People's Party feel comfortable – after a year and a half – living a great man on the money of others?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e767	I don't know if the money the representative Klungland refers to. That would be the Norwegian people's in case. One might have a slightly different view of who actually owns the money around. We feel very comfortable with what we did in the Bondevik II administration. It provided the basis for an economic policy that the red-green majority can now benefit from. As the representative of Klungland well knows, this government can live with oil revenues far beyond what the previous government could. And I'm not sure if it's the red-green government's profit that the oil price is the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e776	In today's vote, the representative of the Syversen is quoted as follows: ‘This member will reinforce the importance of kindergarten as the language training arena. This is particularly important for children with a minority background.’ In view of this, the Christian People's Party proposes to introduce free core time into kindergartens for children over three years of age, if parents receive cash support. I fully support the emphasis of the representative of Syversen on the importance of kindergartens for language training and integration of children with a minority background. What I'm responding to is that this only applies to children of parents who receive cash support. Why should not children who do not have babysitters or who have babysitters in kindergarten be offered free core time when we agree on the importance of language training and integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e788	I think it must be a misunderstanding about what the representative of Lund Bergo has read. We support what the Government has proposed about free core time in specific areas, which the representative Lund Bergo was in, in order to strengthen language training. In addition, it is important that those not in kindergarten also receive language training. In order to prevent the possible effect that someone does not go to kindergarten because there is cash support for others, we have proposed what we have done. But it's not going to happen instead of anything, it's going to add up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e793	The representative Hans Olav Syversen emphasises in his remarks that the alternative draft budget of the Christian People's Party would involve a marginally better balance than the government's proposal, a saving of 80 million. kr. In my opinion, this is a very precise description. I think it serves the Christian People's Party to the credit that one does not arrogantly overlook the effects of one's own policies, as some others in this Chamber do today. But then the Christian People's Party expresses further concern for interest rate developments in the future through the following wording: ‘in order to avoid an even faster rate increase in the future than both the Government and market actors have previously foreseen, the Government must provide a government budget for 2008 where the structural oil-corrected budget deficit rises less.’ [[...]] My question to the representative Syversen is whether the Christian People's Party itself has a responsibility to make proposals to improve the balance of the economy. It is at least very positive that the Christian People's Party here expresses great support for the Government's ability to govern the Norwegian economy. What are the Christian People's Party's own proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e805	Now you referred the representative, Mr Brerk, to what we are proposing in the revised budget. Coming up with what we're going to propose in the ordinary budget for 2008, is a little early, all the time we're there in the year. We do not know the Government's draft budget. What I think is important is that the government for market and interest rate development reasons emphasizes that you want a budget that is so tight that we don't get any interest rate developments that go into a higher orbit than we would otherwise expect. Because we get that, I think the representative Breck and I will agree that those who want to suffer from it will be Norwegian businesses and individuals and families with high mortgages. I hope that both the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have a common interest in that not happening. Then I can promise the representative, Mr Brerk, that in our alternative budget we will ensure that we have an economic policy that does not contribute to higher interest rates than is necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e815	I just want to start by saying that I think it's probably both the Christian People's Party and Hans Olav Syversen that there's a difference between being in position and being in opposition. Then I want to give the Christian People's Party the recognition that in many ways the Christian People's Party is a party that stands close to the government parties, both in terms of community and not least in terms of focusing attention on those who have a need for assistance in Norwegian society. With that in mind, it surprises me – and it amazes me greatly – that the Christian People's Party has a proposal to reduce the day-to-day pay obligation by permitting from 34 to 32 weeks. Is this not an unsocial measure, which affects those who have involuntarily come into a very difficult situation, and who, in my opinion, should be in the group that the Christian People's Party has a desire to be part of and help?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e822	It's an action we actually think we can defend right with today's situation in the labour market. I'm much more concerned that the government doesn't do anything for those who really need to get into the labour market. I have mentioned several examples that those who need work training do not actually get it, because of lack of funding. In order to use the praiseworthy words of the representative Jacobsen that we stand together in a number of matters, I would like us to be able to stand together in such a way that it would have been possible to achieve something during the examination of the revised budget just in order to meet groups that I believe we could jointly need a few extra dollars, so that they could have come out better than what they do with the government's arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e829	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e832	The underlying forces contributing to the high temperature of the Norwegian economy have increased further since the 2007 national budget. As a result, estimates for several of the main economic figures have been raised in the budget we are now discussing. I can mention that the growth in private consumption is now estimated to be 4 pst., against 3 pst. in the budget, furthermore, that the increase in oil extraction investment has increased from minus 2,5 pst. to 5 pst. and that the housing investment has increased from 0 to 5 pst. In total, these increased investments and consumption in the private sector represent an estimated DKK 21 billion. When I bring this up, it's because it's important that we have the balance between public and private consumption in the debate on the Norwegian economy. We also need a strong focus on the tools that can be used, to also dampen the growth of the private sector, because it is an important part of the whole. That being said, on behalf of the Centre Party, I would like to say how pleased I am that our government continues to give priority to the community in the areas of opportunity that one has. It's reassuring. It is important now that we in fiscal policy go under the rule of action. It is therefore important that the requirement for priority and political leadership be even greater, because there are a number of tasks that need to be carried out. During a boom, there is a greater need to correct market forces – in order to ensure distributional reasons and to ensure investment in future, whether in education or in communication. Tax policy is a central element of fiscal policy, and it is central that fiscal policy continues to pursue the principle of ability. That's what's going on, and that's what can make sure here that we can also help change how we invest our money. The interest-rate instrument is necessary to be used. It's right to increase interest rates, as so far there's been an agreement in the hall. At the same time, we should be aware that its stronger tightening through increasing interest rates, the more evident is the weakness of this instrument. Both distribution and competition considerations are then very demanding, and we in the Centre Party are very pleased that the Government is very concerned about this difficult balance in its economic policy. The revised national budget has clear improvements and corrections in two key areas — both in terms of well-being and infrastructure. It's a significant addition to hospitals, which provides greater security. There is a strong commitment to child protection, which is absolutely necessary. Child protection reaches the lowest levels among young people, and there are very many who need extra warm care. On the infrastructure side, the Soria Moria Declaration has clear formulations about developing broadband for all households during this year. That's why it's set at 255 million. kr on that entry. It is important to point out that county councils are now given greater responsibility, and that is where there was a raging development in the use of broadband. This is probably a matter to which we come back, in order to ensure that it can develop further. Industrial power has been mentioned. An orientation on the industrial power situation has been provided by the Government, and the responsible State Council, Odd Roger Enoxen, will soon put forward concrete proposals on this matter. This issue concerns predictable power contracts for power-intensive industries, whether they are melting plants or woodworking industries. We are very pleased with what the Government has now clarified in this area. It is clarified from the State Council responsible that if the EU has different opinions on the proposal from Norway, one will refer the matter to the European Court of Justice if necessary. This is a position that both LO-linked industry and NHO-linked Norwegian industry have supported, and that is very good. Finally, we are facing major climate challenges. The government balances the proposal in the revised national budget, facilitates renewable energy taxes, increases oil and gas taxes – it is absolutely correct and important to keep that balance. At the same time, it is important that we have a massive public arrangement for future investments, in order to remove the large exhaust emissions on the base and in large industrial enterprises. It'll be demanding, but we can afford it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e855	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e858	There was a line change here instead between the representative Lundtägen and me, where I, among other things, referred to something that the representative was very concerned about a year ago, namely lack of investment in the road sector and investment in national roads. Then the representative Lundtigen was concerned about the situation that is on many of our highways. So this government has put some more money into the state budget for 2007, but in the state budget that applied last year, there was no follow-up to the national transport plan. This means that there is still a significant lag in relation to national road investment and that of the national transport plan. Is this representative Lundtigen concerned? What will he himself take the initiative to do in order to put in place the necessary important road investments, such as: are extremely important for the basis of existence in the districts, for the residents living there, and for the goods and services to be transported?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e865	It is true that there is a lag in the road sector. The centre party is concerned about the situation of the emergence of our roads. The objective analyses carried out by the Road Directorate of Road Standards show what everyone sees, namely that there are major unfinished tasks. What is now extra demanding, however, is that we use so many of our professionals for private investment that we are in a completely different and much more demanding situation in 2007 than what we were in just a year ago. But as I said, this requires political leadership. I can assure the representative of the Progress Party that this is a high priority area on the part of the Centre Party, because it is an area where very many people are concerned. One sees this as a matter of everyday life, and that something has to be done to reconcile what one considers necessary in terms of quality in 2007 with what the population wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e874	The wall of silence is – if possible – even bigger after listening to the representative Lundtigen. Councillor Kristin Halvorsen admits that the objective of the Soria Moria Declaration to eradicate poverty is not being achieved. SV's Karin Andersen, head of the Labour and Social Committee, says she's disappointed not to have received more. If the representative Lundtigen agrees with both the Council of State and Karin Andersen that the Government is not doing enough to combat poverty, how can he explain that the government parties are not interested in supporting any of the opposition's proposals for measures to combat poverty, including any of the Right's proposals? I can mention ‘Indoor Tunet’ measures, a low-threshold service for people with mental and drug problems, strengthening child and youth activities in large cities, ‘Snow in the Door’ measures to provide young people with social assistance training, sustainable housing rather than shelter. When the Government salted up in 2005, it was obviously handed out skyscrapers, not only to government members, but also to the representative Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e885	What is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration on eradicating poverty is central. It's a central parole, just like it's a central parole to have work for everyone. It is positive that the Right Party is now presenting its proposals on how to do something in this area, proposals of 75 million. kr. The government's proposal implies that one has other means of achieving the same. So the essence of the matter is that the government, when it comes to the total economy, will take care of those who are worse off, better than what the opposition wants to do with what they come with. But as I said, the centre party is happy that the right party has now focused a lot on the weakest of us. We hope that it will be vigorously followed up in the future budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e894	As the representative Lundtigen is well known, the NOx fee is marked strongly along the coast. Many fishermen actually have to pay up to NOK 100 000 per year. person in NOx tax, without achieving the necessary NOx targets with it. It's a safe cost, but an uncertain environmental impact. Therefore, fishermen are very concerned about setting up the agreement basis for a NOx fund, so that a balanced development can be achieved in this area. We know that such an agreement must be notified by ESA. It'll take time. Then my question to the representative Lundtägen is whether he wants to be a driver for the government to have this contractual basis in place before the summer holiday, and whether he can in that case see whether the fishermen who paid the fee for 2007 can get it refunded.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e913	The answer is, of course, yes. There is no disagreement within the Government about facilitating the representation Sahl said – a contractual basis for a NOx fund. What was done in connection with the budget last autumn is firm. What is being said is central: this must be notified to ESA, and we must ensure that there is a system that is proposed and that can be implemented. There's a high priority in the Center Party. I fully agree with the questioner that this has to be worked on a lot, and the Senter party is a driver for the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e924	A year ago, we also had a huge rise in the Norwegian economy. It went well, and the party was big when it came to cabin construction, boat purchase and a lot of things that you could say are luxury investments. The representative Lundtigen suggested that we need a limit on the interest deduction in the Norwegian economy, and many of us understood that this was an indication of what could happen in the state budget. It didn't. But my question is related to the fact that the purchase party has not only continued from last summer, but that it is increasing. We also see that the amount of the loan increases, so much that there might be a basis for some scepticism about where this is going. My question to the representative Lundtigen is: does he believe that his proposal to limit the deduction of interest still applies? And: Is there anything the Government should consider in view of the 2008 budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e931	I agree with what the representative Sponheim here says, in that the need to look at the unlimited interest deduction is greater today than it was a year ago. Studies show that in the last half of 2006, a number of households have a negative savings rate despite high real wage growth. If one is not to be pressured to push interest unilaterally strongly upwards, it is certainly still a valid instrument to limit the interest rate deduction in the order of 2 million. kr per. taxpayer. It's a public proposal from the Center Party that we still have with us, but it's the government that decides what the Government is proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e938	A while ago, VG had a larger article where they took care of the 100 most deadly roads in Norway. The interesting thing was that 24 of these 100 were roads in Buskerud. I wonder what the Buskerud representative Lundtegen has done – and what he wants to do – about it, why is it not a stronger upgrading of the roads, especially in Buskerud? Before he replies, I would also like to note what he used as an excuse for the representative of Leirstein regarding roads, that the construction industry did not have the capacity. That's wrong. Two weeks ago, we met with the civil engineering industry and their stakeholder organisation. They say they only use 60 pst. of the capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e945	The centre party has made good contact with the responsible State Council. What has happened in that area is a significant improvement in relation to previous governments. It is important and right that there are differences in the availability of services around the country on the road. I have learned that especially for Buskerud and Telemark, the situation is more difficult than it is for many other states. There is a special need for us in Buskerud, and I am a representative of that. The capacity of the industry is such that it is smaller on the investment side than on the maintenance page. That is why it is right that the Council of State has set up, namely to ensure accessibility and maintenance as its main concern. The centre party has a keen look at this. We're a hot fan of creating a match between what's people's expectations, and what's the situation, even in the road sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e954	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e957	A reassessment of the budget is primarily an opportunity for a collapse and government to correct the price in relation to the adopted government budget in terms of the situation we are in and the outlook for the Norwegian economy. Secondly, there is an opportunity to make the necessary political priorities in areas where this is necessary. It's my view that the government and the majority of the population, consisting of the government parties, have done neither one thing nor the other. The draft revised budget is almost bare on political priorities. If it had not been for the government to absorb the CO2 emissions from the gas power plant at Kårstø, there would have been almost no room for political re-priorities at all. Some new, clear course is not so good to see. At the same time, there is considerable uncertainty as to whether the budgetary audit contributes to reducing the pressure on the economy and getting the time to last. Although it is clear that the government has seen the warning lights and the dangers of a red-green interest-rate programme, there should have been a little less money from the pension fund than the government has provided. More action should have been taken to increase labour supply, and there should have been incentives for saving rather than consumption. In neither of these areas does the Government choose to correct the course. This means, as Norway’s Bank pointed out after the last interest rate meeting on Wednesday 30 May, that the revised national budget is a factor that contributes to increasing the pressure on the economy and which may thus affect interest rate developments in the future. Vice-Central Bank Chief Jarle Bergo said, among other things: that the 2007 budget is now more expansive than what he expected. There are few things that are more unsocial, and that create greater differences between poor and rich than high interest rates. Nor is there any doubt that it is primarily the responsibility of the Government to conduct a policy that ensures the lowest possible interest rate, and thus the least possible pressure on the krone price. The main economic policy objectives of the left are work for all, fair distribution and sustainable development within a financially responsible framework. If we are to achieve these objectives, a strong and competitive business is a prerequisite. It is neither possible to distribute nor to create new jobs without. Economic policy must therefore focus on promoting value creation and productivity in both the public and private sectors. Unfortunately, this seems like the government has completely forgotten in its eagerness to blow up the public sector. The revised budget is only reflected in a larger picture of a government that is not very busy in the business world, and during its working hours has promoted a number of direct anti-business proposals, especially to small businesses and self-employed people. In the position we are discussing today, the Left proposes a re-priority of approximately SEK 1.5 billion on the expenditure and income side, and we have a green tax and tax shift of about 400 million. kr. The structure of the left is a clear and focused focus on the main policy area of the left. First and foremost, we give priority to a stronger focus on research, a number of improvements in climate and environmental policies, a forward-looking industrial policy and a number of measures to combat poverty – areas where the Government has more or less introduced collective cutbacks, or settled in stable side rentals. The left proposes strengthening research efforts and correcting the cuts to universities and colleges. The government has not used the opportunity in the revised national budget to correct the deficit in basic appropriations, and the funds for research recruitment and industrial research are also inadequate. This will have a very negative impact on our research sector. Overall, the Left has an increase of 386 million. kr for research and higher education. In the alternative approach to the revised budget of the Left, there are a number of measures to reduce Norwegian climate emissions. Research, more public transport in major cities, investment aid for renewable energy and more targeted measures to address the problems faced by the Government are hampering domestic measures to reduce Norwegian emissions, among others. a separate grant item of 100 million. kr to municipalities that will be pre-municipalities in order to reduce their climate emissions. Had left's approach had a majority, the overall climate and environmental profile in the budget would have been reinforced by 364 million. kr. Furthermore, in our revised budget, we have put forward several proposals that will contribute to the effective fight against poverty. This applies, inter alia, to: tests on the pay of citizens, free dental care for individual groups, increased efforts in the care of drug users and more places of action for people with difficulties in entering the labour market. For the Left, it is especially important to make sure that people without a place of residence have a permanent dwelling and a better life, while at the same time we have a common promise of drugs and psychiatry. Overall, there is an action package to combat 188 million poverty. kr in Left's draft revised national budget. I see the time is running out. I thought I had 10 minutes. Has it been so much time?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e983	The representative Sponheim has actually had 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e986	I'm impressed with that. But then at least I'm taking the time to pick up the suggestions from the Left that I'm going to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e991	The representative Lars Sponheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e996	80 pst. of the interest rate increase we have had since 2005, was warned while Per Kristian Foss was Minister of Finance. The representative, Lars Sponheim, has stated that the opposition's proposals for tightening up will have no isolated effect on interest rates, but that they will show a direction. So the left-hand side has a completely different approach to things than, for example, the left-hand side. Mr Jan Tore Sanner. My question to the representative Sponheim is this: Will the Left continue the constructive line in the interest rate debate, so that the Storting can discuss in a good way both the positive and also the problematic aspects of the interest rate increase in time to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1003	It's right that the interest rate would have increased no matter what government we had. The number of 80 pst. Of that interest rate increase we would probably have had anyway, as it's come out. But what I can promise the committee leader is that the left and I are going to have a strong commitment not to get a curious interest rate supplement on top of the general interest rate increase. I'm not hiding that I'm going with a constant fear that we'll get a little red-green interest supplement for people who definitely can't afford to pay it. I'm going to be so honest and say that when I reflected on what would come into the revised national budget just before a election, I'd probably fear that the use of money would be even greater than what it is. I think the government is reasonably sober. But as I just said in my short post, I think it might have been even tighter. There's no doubt that we're now inside an interest rate path that seems to go at a higher interest rate than the previous government thought would come, and what we should have strictly taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1011	There are two things I am looking at at at the presentation of the revised national budget by the representative, Sponheim and Left. One is that I don't understand why the Left, which wants to be a very strongly focused environmental party, cuts into the provisions we've made for climate quotas. We believe it is important to ensure that this is something that is already coming into the budgets. We're putting off money because we know we're going to buy quotas in the future. Doing less of that now means we have to do more of that in the future. I think it makes sense to have a long term around this, and Lars Sponheim has to explain to me why he doesn't think it makes sense. The second is what goes on in kindergartens. I think that everyone who is out there criticising the Government in relation to kindergartens and kindergarten development, should really look at what both the Right and the Left do, namely to increase the nursery prices and thereby reduce the labour supply and reduce the capacity of the Norwegian economy, not to talk about not fulfilling the unanimous promise that we gave people five years ago. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1020	To the first question, action in Norway is now the most important issue for the Left. The fact that we have money and can go out and buy allowances – there is no danger that we will be included in it. We are afraid that the Government will now push all these foreign actions ahead, while we want the measures now. That is why we are using quota money in this budget to deploy measures in Norway now. But I promise that when the Norwegian measures come into place – and we believe in the Government’s will – we will finally be involved in buying allowances out, because all that the Government can bring up with money. I remember one year ago, when we discussed the revised national budget, that we had a real babysitting round between Heikki Holmås and me and the finance minister, where I warned the government against lowering prices before we had full coverage. I was deeply concerned that the Minister of Finance had to keep his promise to leave after 2007 because the nursery places are not there. I was dismayed by the representative Holmås. So it just went a few weeks, and then Djupedal went out and said that they had probably gone too fast with the prices, and that they should have thought about the places first. That's what Left does: kindergarten space for everyone, so lower prices. At that time, the finance minister could have been a little bit straighter in the debate today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1029	The representative Sponheim expresses in his contribution concerns for interest rate developments and margins. In a note in the budget position, the Left states the following: ‘However, this member fears that the expansionary economic policy, especially in the public sector, to which the Government is now enjoining, will result in very costly wage settlements and thus further pressure on interest rates and interest rates.’ It is also apparent from comments in the budget position that the Left proposes to spend 250 million. kr less in revised. It is proposed to cover the sale of property, Landsbygg 100 million, and increased dividends, Argentum 122 million. kr. The total demand from mainland Norway is estimated at NOK 1671 billion, private consumption at NOK 916 billion and public consumption at NOK 440 billion. Why is the Left so concerned about the public sector about expansionary economic policies and not about the growth of private investment and consumption? And what is it in the Left's alternative to the revised national budget, where the Left proposes 250 million? kr in the minor use of the pension fund, which implies less pressure in the Norwegian economy, compared to what the Government has proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1046	The representative Lars Peder Breck is a sparkling social economist, and then he has at least the child learning that all of us fiscal politicians have, that there are three important parameters we can control. One is that wage-fixing is within a reasonable framework; the other is fiscal policy – it attacks politicians, namely public budgets and fiscal policy – and the third is, of course, the interest-rate weapon of the governor. Now we have a spring behind us, where we must be able to say that the payroll has gone within the limits, but we are nevertheless getting alarming notice that now it might go over it locally. Financial policy is under pressure. We do not want the governor to clean this up through the interest-rate weapon, even though the representative Lundtigen indicated that this was a positive and important weapon to use. Then the politicians are left with fiscal policy, and it must be tight enough. I fear that the weakly expansively revised budget we are discussing today is perhaps too expansive. It should probably be a neutral budget, to make sure that the poorest don't have to pay an extra red-green interest supplement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1055	First, I would like to express my pleasure at the constructive approach of the representative Sponheim to the interest rate discussion and then until those degrees now shoot down what someone will call the scares propaganda of Jan Tore Sanner, linked to the interest rate path. I'm glad, because that means that the Right is left alone on the bourgeois side with what you're adding. Sponheim characterizes climate policy and environmental policy as puzzles – I don't remember what kind of words he used – but let me mention a few measures that have taken place since the government change: Agreement on clean-up and CO2 capture at Mongstad, 50 pst. increase in public transport subsidies, Europe's most stringent industrial quota regime, €20 billion for new renewable energy, support for flexible cars now in revised, quota purchases – at all a wide range of measures in the climate sector. What similar measures can Sponheim put in place as the previous government managed to get to the four years before the government change?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1067	First, I want to take this attempt from the Workers' Party and the Government's side to make a greater distance than that, between what Jan Tore Sanner and Right stands for, and what I say. First of all, we're analysing, and we're going in the exact same direction. I think we might use a little bit of different words. Both Jan Tore Sanner and I both know that if our government still had, we too would have had to defend interest increases. But we're pretty sure that we would have run a tighter economic setup, which might have contributed to something lower interest rates. This is, at my discretion, not an area where it is possible to be non-slip. This is a complicated and complex subject, but we know enough to know that it can be a little pretence was and a little bit tighter in fiscal policy than we are now. The previous government led an environmental policy that was quite widely recognised, not least from the environmental movement. Now it's like the whole people are calling for climate action. People are ready to do something for the climate, and we're waiting for the government. Maybe that's the government's biggest problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1076	I listened to the representative Sponheim when he responded to why he would not agree to purchase allowances abroad. He'd rather take the cuts domestically. It's a day-to-day problem how to do it. But when a party, and a party leader, is so blatant and says that instead of reducing emissions abroad rather than doing so domestically, I think it will of course be interesting to hear where the representative wants to buy allowances, and where he wants to take the cuts that he is clearly aware of in the revised budget, as he is transferring money or cutting out the purchase of allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1083	Firstly, the assumptions of the representative of Klungland were not correct. I said in my previous answer that the left is to both purchase allowances outside and take action at home. The most important thing we have to do, and what gives us the most credibility, is show the will to do the necessary things at home, and do enough at home. It is also a Kyoto obligation. What we can do out there is just supplementary action. When we are in a situation where the Storting goes and waits for the Government to look up to a result on how much we are going to do at home, and in the revised beginnings of trading outside, it is wrong for the Left. We want to act at home first, and show it in our revised budget. We have. I can assure the representative of Klungland that as soon as we have an ambitious enough level of action at home, it will definitely not be on the Left to support the Government in buying allowances and contributing to reductions out and in poor countries. But we have to show our willingness to do what's necessary at home first.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1090	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1093	After nearly four years of strong growth in the mainland economy, Norway is in a marked high economic cycle. We've never had more in work, and unemployment is the lowest in almost 20 years. This is very joyful, and it's very important. It is the most important thing we can do in the fight against poverty, and the most important thing for using the largest and most valuable resource in Norway, namely labour. The major challenge now is to get this low unemployment situation to last as long as possible. The government has presented a revised national budget that can contribute to it. We follow the budgetary policy guidelines, which provide for a uniform and predictable phase-in of oil revenue. Trust in these guidelines helps to stabilise the expectations of the actors for the economy and is important for us to have stable conditions in the Norwegian economy in the future. In the 2007 budget, we raised 71 billion oil crowns. This meant a little bit slower phase-in of the oil money than what has been so far, and that we reached the 4 pst. path. Now, through the revised national budget, revenue increases due to increased tax revenue and other conditions. That means we have an increased space of action, and more than 50 pst. Of that, we're using it to reduce the use of oil money. That means we're under the 4 pst path for the first time, 3.8 pst. But we still have some space for action in this revised budget. We have presented a revised national budget with a clear red-green profile and a continuation of it. We continue the violent effort we have in kindergartens. 22700 new kindergartens are now being built in 2007. It's almost ten times as much as in 2000, and the biggest bet ever on kindergartens. We have a level of kindergarten development that would meet the needs of those who were in line. September 20, a year ago. There is also a significant increase in child protection efforts. It's an important task that we have a high level and a good quality of child protection. We have growing problems in this sector, probably also in the context of poor local economy and a lack of priorities in the municipalities, which means that we now have a greater challenge statewide. We put in place a system of fruit and vegetables at school, starting with those schools that have childhood. It's because they often have the worst diet and because it'll be a way to watch high school, which is often the part of School-Norway that feels a little forgotten. We also start trials with all day school for over 3,000 students in 11 different municipalities. It is both to gain experience with several hours, with more physical activity and with school meals, and to be able to embark on the major reform that the Soria Moria Declaration advocates, namely to increase the number of hours and to complete the full-day school. In the environmental field, we are also very recognizable. We have more efforts in the environmental sector. We facilitate the charge on flexible cars, and we present what guidelines we are going to buy allowances after in the case of CDM and contribute to the international quota market. We're expecting to get started on that in the fourth quarter of 2007. These are very strict guidelines, because it is very important that the international quota market operates in such a way that actual reductions are achieved. We have low unemployment and labour market challenges. There are many sectors that say they now lack labour. It also applies to parts of the public sector. Our goal of eradicating poverty is firm. Providing low unemployment, but at the same time a high level of action so that many of those who have not had a long chance in the labour market have an opportunity to get in, are incredibly important. We're not making any major changes to the tax system, it's not common in a revised national budget. We continue to do the job that we have done in relation to carpentry taxes, by reducing the passport fee for children. There was a snitch tax of NOK 150 per year. Pass. We are going to continue this cleanup after the previous government in the budgets that are coming forward. What I can record is that the Right is going the opposite way when they finance their poverty effort by taking from those who labor the most, namely to introduce a new snitch tax on coercive charges that makes them increase from $1,600 to $2,200. That's the opposite of what our government wants to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1117	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1120	At the Norwegian Pensioners’ Association’s national meeting, the Prime Minister said that this abbreviation for 67-70-year-olds working should be removed / settled as soon as possible. I'm a little excited to know if the Minister of Finance actually agrees with this statement – and if she agrees with it, what does she add to the term 'as soon as possible'?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1127	The representative, Leirstein, knows very well that I cannot make any opinions or views or leaks on next year's state budget or government budgets. However, it is important that both adults and older workers remain in the labour market for as long as possible, and that those who are also aged 67 to 70 are encouraged to participate more in the labour market. So I fully agree with the intention behind Leirstein's line, and with what the Prime Minister said. There are many 67-70-year-olds who can make a significant contribution to working life, and of course we have a focus on it when we need more labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1134	I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance also supports the initiative of the non-socialist parties to remove the curtailment of pensions for 67-70-year-olds. We need more labour, and we need to motivate to work more. But I am a little stunned though when the Minister of Finance obviously cannot give support to the Prime Minister. The question then is: shall we not take the Prime Minister seriously when he is at the Norwegian Pensioners' Association's national meeting, do the pensioners look into their eyes and say that the curtailment of the pension should be removed as quickly as possible? ‘As fast as possible’ had actually been revised. The next chance is the budget. So yesterday, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on TV said that ‘as soon as possible’ is in 2010. It is most likely a year after this government has left, at least I hope so. The Minister of Finance is a bit of a judge in budgetary procedures, and my question is: does she support the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who says in 2010, or the Prime Minister, who says ‘as quickly as possible’? As soon as possible it would have really been today. The next chance is the budget for 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1145	I can assure the representative Jan Tore Sanner that we have no plans to leave in 2009, so no matter what happens in 2010, we're going to do it. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour and Inclusion focus on the age group in which the representative Sanner is involved, namely the 67-70 age group. However, we have not concluded on what is proposed in the budget for 2008, 2009 or 2010. We have a focus on this. I support their intention. It's the whole government's busy, but I can't say anything more about what's coming in the budgets ahead, than that. What is important now is both to see that today's positive situation in the labour market means that many of those who went out too early, when they were at the end of the 50s, and became unattractive, now have a much larger and better opportunity. Then it's a challenge to get the AFP pensioners to stand up for more work. In addition, if we can make the age group between 67 and 70 contribute more to the labour market, we have adopted a good senior policy and contributed to a better labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1154	We must be glad that, after all, it is not in the power of the majority government to decide that it cannot go off, or should go off. There's at least someone outside the red-green majority that they should say. But I was concerned with the Minister of Finance snowing in at the end of his speech, namely poverty. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we have put measures into revision that will allow more people who are in great need of access to the labour market to do so. That's what the majority parties at all have not wanted to listen to, despite signals of the opposite at first. It is an important element for us to have less differences in this country. My simple question is: can the Minister of Finance guarantee that in 2007 there will be less difference between the people most and those who are rich than it was in 2006?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1163	As for the development of poverty and differences, I don't have any concrete bombastic statistics to put on the table, because it's not so fresh. The last one we had was from the last Bondevik government. There it was found that poverty was increasing. Now I think we see two trends. One is that those with large holdings in the business community, who go so far as to laugh because of high economic activity, have a significant increase in their income. And we know that among the 10 pst. the richest in Norway are many who have a large proportion of their income related to those capital income. The second is that poverty is reduced because the labour market is as it is. We maintain a very high level of voluntary measures, although unemployment is falling, precisely so that many people who have been out of the labour market for a long time can take advantage of this opportunity to get in. So I think we see two trends. One is that poverty is reduced, but the other is that the differences are increasing, because they are now falling off at the top. That presents a very big challenge for a fair tax policy. And the Christian People's Party is cordially welcome to support the fiscal policy of the red-green government instead of the tax policy of the Right-dominated government, which went the opposite way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1172	As a result of this budgetary procedure, half of this grossing-up period has passed. There are two proposals, two clear areas, for which Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen will so far be remembered, at my discretion. One was the bastant promises of full babysitting by the end of 2007, without any shades, without any reservations, and that we all have on tape. The promise has been abandoned. So it was eradicating poverty -- it was a matter of will. It could be done in a few months. Obviously, Bondevik didn't have any will to do that. Thus the list was placed extremely high for the Government. Now more than a few months have passed. The promise has been abandoned. Does Minister of Finance Halvorsen regret the boisterous promises of party leader Halvorsen?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1181	No, I don't. I believe that those promises have been a very important driving force to get as far as we have done, both in terms of kindergarten and the fight against poverty. What I promised in the election campaign in 2005 is the same thing as a total big deal of money for, that is to say, implementing the big kindergarten deal. That it turned out that the representative Sponheim believes that it is only I, SV and the red-green government that have committed us to implementing the agreement, says more about the Left's relationship to promises than about mine. We have a huge investment in kindergarten development. There are several who flock to the queue to get to kindergartens. The left-hand side tries to solve it by increasing the price. It's in violation of the child's hail. It's not our way. We have a very high pressure on this. When it comes to abolishing poverty, I put myself 100 pst. behind the wording of the Soria Moria declaration. It's clear that you're loud when you say you're going to eliminate poverty. It's almost an impossible goal to achieve, but you don't solve it by abolishing the goal, because you have to work after every day. Being outside and poor in a society as fast as ours is a very heavy burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1190	Now, as the Minister of Finance said, Norway is in the midst of a marked economic cycle, and there are many different ways of doing this, including: i that the private debt of the household path at a pace that we have not seen before. There are many people who are concerned about, including the representative Lundteg, who have today re-tabled their proposal to set a ceiling on debt for which one can demand interest deductions on the self-declaration. The representative, Lundteigen, points out that this is now a much more topical measure to be implemented than it was a year ago. My question is: does not the Minister of Finance think that the representative Lundtigen has a point, and that this is something that the Government should sort out more closely to see if it is a current tool?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1197	No, it's not up to this government to impose a cap on interest rebates. The representative Lundtägen has the right to bring up thoughts that the Center Party has, but this government has no plans to implement them. I share the concern about debt absorption, especially for the youngest in the housing market. There is nothing at all about the reviews that the Credit Authority has of the total debt burden, which would indicate that we are facing a new debt crisis. But many of the younger ones have gone far, they're borrowing 100 psts, maybe even more than that, and they have loans with amortization over longer periods. Obviously, they are vulnerable in such a situation, and we're following it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1205	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1208	At the end of the spring 2007 session, it can be established that the Government implements the Soria Moria Declaration on the subject by area. The order of the economy is a prerequisite for doing so. It is a primary objective of the Government to ensure full employment. Unemployment is now historically low and participation is high. This is joyous. It is now felt that parts of the labour market are characterised by labour shortages. It can also be a challenge. In the middle of the period, I would like to highlight some of the most important promises made by the government parties. The strong improvement in the economy of the municipalities is the biggest investment. It has given more teachers at school and more hands in the care of the elderly. Before the 2005 elections, we promised 10,000 more jobs in the care of the elderly. The government is in a good position to reach this goal. Kindergarten development is taking place at an historic pace. The goal of full child care coverage is within reach. The total for 2006 and 2007 is 38 800 new all-day seats. Never before has there been a corresponding growth in the number of kindergartens. Transport has also been given a boost in the period so far. What we promised in the National Transport Plan, we will comply. Substantial increases in health funding have also been made during 2006 and 2007. In examining the revised national budget today, Stortinget allocates 800 million. extra to the hospitals notified by the Government in February. This has been necessary to ensure good patient treatment. Government parties have promised government grants to provide broadband coverage in areas where it is not commercially profitable for companies to expand. This promise is also being fulfilled by a sharp increase in the allocation of the revised national budget. Access to broadband is a prerequisite for scattered living and business across the country. So the broadband bet to be adopted here today is good news for District Norway. Another priority of the revised national budget is the protection of children. The children in need of child protection are among the most vulnerable in our society. With more children under care – that’s a development we don’t want, but unfortunately it’s a fact – there’s also a need for increased funding for state child protection. This responsibility is assumed by the Government when an increase of 220 million is now proposed. kr for the protection of children. When reference can be made to such a strong investment in important welfare areas, this is the result of a new course in which the large money goes to the large welfare tasks, rather than to tax relief. This is exactly in line with what we promised the voters. Initially, I stressed the importance of good economic governance to ensure employment and well-being. When there is a high level of activity in the economy, budgetary policy needs to be adapted accordingly. The government does. Less oil money is now used than the rule for real returns. It is important to prevent economic policy from exerting pressure on interest rates and exchange rates. Both the position on the table today, and not least the debate we have had in this Chamber, show that there is a strong gap in economic policy on the part of the opposition. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are, in effect, close to the use of the government parties' money, despite the persistent efforts of the representative Sanners to produce the Right Budget as completely different. It's a fact that the differences are minimal. The structural measures mentioned by the Right in this Chamber are very difficult to see in their budgets, and it is at least difficult to understand that it should have a significant impact on the development of interest rates. On the other hand, the progress party differs markedly and strongly. They're usually adding their extra billions. In other words, the attitude shows what we already know, that there is a very great distance between the parties on the right in economic policy. The Progress Party is adding about NOK 3 billion to the budget, and yesterday they voted for an increase in pensions, which no one can see taken into account in their budget. In fact, it seems that billions are missing in order for the calculation to go up to the Progress Party. We end the session on Tuesday, and we find that the crack on the civil side is as we know it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1234	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1237	It is interesting to note that the representative of Solberg, who is the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, is talking about the gap on the civil side – all the time we know that the government parties sometimes argue so bristles, so that among other things. Some issues come entirely at the heart of the session and the Storting must expand the session now in order to have the opportunity to deal with them before the summer. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. I note that the representative of Solberg is also very concerned about District Norway. A lot of people in District Norway depend on, for example: boat traffic, cargo ships and fishing boats. The government that is now sitting has introduced a NOx tax that makes it very heavy for many who operate in this industry. The industry is reporting major challenges as long as this charge is there. The Progress Party wants to wind up the entire NOx fee from 1 July, but notes that the Workers' Party and the other red-green parties do not agree. Is the representative of Solberg worried about what the industry is reporting on, and what will she do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1250	It is quite rightly observed that the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government are concerned about how development is going in the districts. Among other things, we do. visible with a strong focus on traffic. We have made this visible by fighting intensely to keep the classified employer's fee. We can show you many other examples, such as: what is to be adopted at Stortinget today is an expansion of broadband to enable businesses to have access to modern technology on the outskirts. – So our government is very concerned about the development of the districts. So the representative of Leirstein is well aware that in the context of the 2007 state budget, an arrangement was made for how to proceed with the NOx tax. It's solid. That's what's going on. This is also, as the representative of Leirstein knows, a work in dialogue with the industry concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1260	The representative Solberg has been sitting on the Stortinget for a long time and said a lot wisely in that period. It is a representative I have an absolute sense of in many respects. But when, in conclusion, Solberg's representative now says that it's alarming that there should be a gap between the Right and the Advance Party in economic policy, it's not that of the most groundbreaking observations you've made, to put it that way. It's been a long time. There was also no agreement between the current government parties four years ago, i.e. in the middle of the previous period. A lot can happen, in other words. The new thing that has happened is that this government is now arguing for the open stage – it has rarely happened before. Finally, is it not a problem for political morality and for the confidence in politics that the Prime Minister is as clear to the facts as he does with the statement that the Government will do something about the curtailment of the pension for 67-70-year-olds who work, ‘as quickly as possible’, and that the Government now confirms that it will not happen today, where it could have happened, or before 2010, i.e. in the next period. Will the representative, Mr Solberg, at least confirm that it is possible – I do not ask if this will happen, but if it is possible – to change that rule today and in future budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1269	I must first say thank you to the representative Foss for a pleasant speech and say that it was absolutely not my intention to make it startling that there was a difference between the economic policy of the Right and the Advance Party. It was rather an attempt to say that everything is at the old. So to what the question said. I would say that I believe that both the representative Per-Kristian Foss and others can assume that when the Prime Minister has said that this will change, it will change. Some philological discussion about what is “as fast as possible” or “as soon as possible”, I do not intend to go out on it. But I am absolutely convinced, as we have also heard earlier here today, that this is going to change. This will be implemented by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1276	The representative of Solberg said in his statement that the Soria Moria declaration is being implemented in the area by area. Unfortunately, there is no mention of the government's housing policy. In the case of housing, many people feel that the economy is not stretching. The situation has become much worse in recent years, with higher housing prices. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government promises a social housing policy. It's not enough to point to an improved municipal economy. An improved municipal economy is very good, but in addition, the Soria Moria Declaration promises a targeted policy, grants to rental homes and new loan and support schemes. My question to Solberg's representative is: Where does the government's housing policy go? Where is it from the Soria Moria declaration on targeted and offensive actions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1283	Let me first say that when we have an economic boom like the one we're in now, it often has some drawbacks. One of them is that housing prices are rising sharply, as they have done over several years, and are a major challenge for those entering the housing market, not least for young people. This has been matched by a low interest rate, but the entry ticket is unreasonably high for young people today in the housing market – that is a fact. So I'd say, as the representative Tørresdal also says, it's not necessarily what you do in the municipal sector to facilitate social and adapted housing. With the strong efforts of the Government in the municipal sector, municipalities have been better able to have a targeted policy in the area of housing for their inhabitants, for those who need a very special arrangement to secure their own housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1290	The representative of Solberg, the Labour Party parliamentary leader, had a strong commitment to the election campaign two years ago to provide industry with cheap power contracts. I have many quotations from Solberg's representative from that election campaign. The previous government then said that the EEA Agreement prevents us in the government offices from distributing contracts or setting prices. The power companies must do that, and the market must. This does not mean that the industry cannot obtain less power than the consumer, because it is another product that they buy – larger quantities that are used 24 hours a day. In the revised national budget we are dealing with now, the government is really saying the same thing as the previous government. In fact, they say that they should try to influence the EU, so that they can be smarter in this area once in the future, but this is going to take a long time, it says. Is the representative of Solberg comfortable that she promised the voters that she could do something in this area, and that it would be parked to the degrees in the revised national budget we are dealing with today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1301	I have had the pleasure of being a representative of the Stortinget for many years for a state that is an industrial group, where it means a great deal to the development of many communities that this industry still has viable conditions, among other things. safe access to power. That's why I fully support my commitment to looking at what could replace the old-fashioned power contracts. There is no one in the Labour Party or government parties who has ever believed that we could continue to adopt reduced prices for industry. With regard to the manufacturing of this work being parked in connection with the processing of the revised, I do not agree. That's not right. The government says that it is difficult, and that it is a demanding task, but efforts are still being made to find solutions that can ensure stable and secure access to energy to Norwegian industry. I am very happy that the government still has a click on that work. I also hope that we will come up with a result.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1309	It is not just for industrial power that the government has promised very much, but not clearly to fulfill the promises of concrete action. When we look at a number of other industrial policy areas, there are major headlines to bet on, but when it comes to practice, it is a fact that the government is pursuing a policy that focuses on industry. An example of this is now seen in Luteland. Yesterday, the Stortinget discussed the development of Gjøa and, in this context, would facilitate industrial development in Luteland. At the same time, the Government has presented proposals for a climate quota law, which will not give climate allowances to newly established industries – exactly the type of industry to have in Luteland. Norwegian industry has said that with this type of climate quota policy there will be no re-establishment of industry. Ergo – The government’s headlines in this case are not related to what they deliver. In the same way as with industrial power where there is a lot of promises and no content, climate quota policy is also a lot of promises and no content. Will the Labour Party ensure that industry established in Luteland and elsewhere will receive climate allowances in line with EU legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1320	First, I would like to say that of course it is that in the middle of a big period there are many things in the Government's statement for four years that are still not fulfilled. It's working on it, and there's going to be new things. Next spring I am absolutely sure that we can stand here in the staging room and point out that new promises have been fulfilled, and that new parts of the Soria Moria statement are in place. This is a work we work systematically with. As I said in my previous answer, I also have hopes that we will be able to reach a solution to industrial power. The representative of Solvik-Olsen knows that the Storting will deal with the climate quota law on the next Tuesday, and then we will have plenty of opportunity to discuss this. That matter is still under consideration in the committee and, I am aware of it, will be given in the near future. Then we will come back to all the issues related to the climate quota law. But I also think that the question being asked illustrates that the Progress Party is in a separate class here and perhaps not in the same way as the rest of the enlargement is taking seriously the consequences of climate change, and that the measures we are going to implement are, unfortunately, sometimes also going to have negative results.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1327	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1330	First, I just have to tell the representative Hill-Marta Solberg that the Progress Party is still waiting for a response from the Workers' Party regarding our invitation to cooperation on climate policy. So Jens Stoltenberg and I have similar opinions on how we can implement climate action on behalf of the nation of Norway. So to the revised-debate. I have been sitting and following this debate with a certain interest, and I must say that all the representatives of the government parties have been on this pulpit and used a huge amount of whispers and slogans and covered themselves behind them in a desperate attempt to show results. These are slogans such as ‘just fiscal policy’, ‘fair distribution’, ‘removal of poverty’, etc. But it is precisely in these areas that the red-green government has failed. One of the most important promises in the last election campaign was to get a government to eliminate poverty. So far, responsible state councils have stated that the only way to eradicate poverty is to make improvements in the labour market. But then it has been forgotten that a significant number of those who are really poor in Norway will never be actors in the labour market – either because they are too sick or because they are too old. For them, there is a slim comfort that the Government wants to make changes on the labour market. There are other changes that all in this room agree that we need to make changes in order to improve labour market weaknesses. But for those who are really poor in our society, there is no comfort. Nor is there any comfort in the fact that central politicians say that the way to solve this is to put down a new sample, to create a new message, to make a new investigation. We know what is the definition of poverty. We know what you need in order to survive your everyday life in heads and ears, and that's actually what's going on. That's the money you put in your wallet, which helps you decide whether you can participate in the welfare community of Norway or whether you've been notified of it. Therefore, it is quite amazing that this government is unable to afford enough money to lift the real poor out of real poverty. It's actually about well-being. It is also about being able to manage your own machinery – not in all respects having to go hand in hand with some public office and ask for assistance. Too many people are unworthy. Then it's about having a little respect for and a little trust in individuals and their need to be able to act as closely as possible with all of us. It does a lot with the dignity of people, and it also does a lot to eliminate poverty. The government's big project is to raise the tax policy tab. You talk about fair tax policy, because it contributes to fair distribution. What is fair tax policy? What is fair distribution? A socially influenced tax policy means, at best, that one might remove some of the envy in society, but one does not remove the facts. The fact is that although the red-green government chooses to increase the tax burden in Norwegian society, they do not use one of the crowns to increase the well-being of those who have at least before. Then you use them on something completely different. Much of the discussion about the revised budget has been about who has been the best or the worst to tighten up the budget. In fact, here everyone is about as good or as bad, because the differences are marginal. We in the Progress Party are obviously on a completely different planet, according to many parties in this room. The truth is, we spend the same amount of money on the state budget now that what the government thought was right in December. The difference is at the per million level. The difference is de minimis. I think it's amazing to continue the debate in that direction, when what you should do was take some force where the government's government budget has obviously failed. In my opinion, it is among other things. in the following areas: As far as health policy is concerned, the Government has not delivered. There is a reason why we receive daily reports on the closure of departments, about people who are being or are being sent off, because we do not have the funds to finance the health care system in the world's richest country. It's embarrassing. It is also embarrassing that some of the most important instruments the Government is talking about in the field of transport policy, not building better roads, which may be one of the best environmental measures we can take, but introducing road pricing, which is once again an unsocial measure, and which affects those who have at least before. I don't think the government has anything to adorn itself with, but I realize that the debate in the future will bear the mark of flakes and slogans – absolutely not of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1349	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1352	We have again heard the referee Jensen, who issues his judgment against the other parties on the Stortinget. I agreed in my speech to point out that there is one party that stands out in economic policy, and I think it is relevant to ask questions about it when there is a revised national budget that is being discussed today. The party that stands out is the Progress Party, which spends more money and, as far as I can see, has not even taken into account in its own budget that they have also spent on pensions – well thought – it was dealt with yesterday and voted over, but it is not possible to see that the Progress Party has financed this in its own budget. If you take the billions that have been missing there, there is a very large gap between the budgetary framework for which the other parties stand today and what the Progress Party stands for. My question is: can the representative Jensen, with certainty and evidence, show that the budget presented by the Progress Party does not contribute to the growth of interest rates in the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1361	What I can certainly say is that interest rates have increased quite a number of times after the red-green government took over. Whether it's the government's fault or the business cycle's fault, we can discuss, but I think one should be a little cautious about wondering what would have happened if the Progress Party's alternative budget had been adopted. Now the Central Statistical Office has calculated that it would have had a positive impact on many parts of the economy. I would like to emphasise the following: the Progress Party uses something more of our oil wealth to invest in our future well-being, to invest in better infrastructure, which provides a better basis for growth in the future economy. But we also cut, where we believe that the government is using people's taxes in a very unnecessary way, where it is entirely possible to leave responsibility to non-governmental organisations or others who can make the job cheaper and better. In the case of retirement, I am proud to represent the only party on the Stortinget that takes Norwegian pensioners seriously, and that has taken the burden of increasing the minimum pension to a decent level. We will continue to propose that until we have it adopted in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1370	I agree with Siv Jensen's description of a good part of the challenges we have, and that we cannot be satisfied until poverty is eliminated. But it is not at all linked to the policy pursued by the Progress Party. If we look at the policies of the Progress Party's own local team here in Oslo, we see that Oslo is the only city in the country where people who come by night and have no place to live, according to the NRK, when you have no place to take care of and come and apply for shelters. There's no room in the hostel in the progress party town. That's what's the starting point. In spite of that, a number of municipal homes have been sold in this town lately. And to take the property tax, which the Progress Party will abolish. The abolition of taxes on wealth will result in an annual tax relief of 7 million. kr to the 100 richest people in this country. It's an effort for the richest, that! It's not an effort to even out the differences. Is Siv Jensen to balance the differences between rich and poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1379	I am to do something for those who have the worst. I don't think we're doing it through rhetoric that just bears the mark of envy. I am concerned about action, and the best way to act is to lift those who have the worst, out of their problems. Then it's about having a powerful care and having a decent level to live on when to meet everyday. Many of the country's smallest pensioners can't do that. They must choose the wound between buying an intrusive medicine or dinner. It is quite unworthy in Norway in 2007. Heikki Holmås and his party traps should do something about it. No one should go around imagining that the wealth tax is a tax that primarily affects the richest in this country. Even minimum pensioners have to pay on a small knee pension property tax, because a long life has paid off the house and housing – and politicians talk about keeping an order in the economy! I think it's amazing that you don't see the need to do anything about the bias of a tax that hits completely arbitrarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1388	The representative, Siv Jensen, began to comment that she was waiting for a response from the country’s prime minister to enter into a climate policy cooperation, the main aim of which is to avoid actions that are noted in Norway. The Christian People's Party has also invited, not only the Labour Party, but all parties, to a broad and binding climate settlement where significant climate action must take place in Norway. It has to be an important part of the deal. It's totally unrealistic that in a few decades we should be able to cut between 70 and 80 pst. If we don't, who live in the rich part of the world, will take our cut. My question is: What makes Siv Jensen and the Progress Party believe that Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party can, or should, have an interest in a climate settlement – or rather a lack of climate, but a reconciliation with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1397	I note that the country's prime minister, me and many in the Progress Party have made completely consistent statements, namely that the important thing, if you are serious about the major climate challenges that you are talking about, is to take the big promises where the large emissions are. They're not in Norway. Norway accounts for 2 per cent of global emissions, which means that if national targets are adopted with two thirds cut, there is no impact on global emissions as a whole. This is not a question of morality and ethics. This is a question of using people's tax money in such a way that it gives effect. The aim must not be to adopt measures which are detrimental to the individual consumer or to the Norwegian industry. The aim must be to adopt effective measures. If we can do something about the carbon pollution around the world through technology improvement, through our competence and through our wealth of capital, why shouldn't we?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1403	The party of progress writes in the setting about the need for better care for the elderly. The centre party agrees with the Progress Party that even though many older and many relatives have experienced a much better care for the elderly over the past ten years, these are clearly unresolved tasks. But why would the Progress Party have a government intake subject to recognise the individual’s need for care and care, a name to cooperate with the NAV offices, which may consist of doctors, case handlers, home help and others? Thus, there will be more state bureaucracy, less local governance, more detailed government legislation, government-defined standards, without the soundness and coordination that can be achieved in municipalities today – more resources in bureaucracy, less on care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1408	It is strange that this system works when granting unemployment benefits. It works by granting other social security funds — where we have rights-based schemes in Norway. At the moment of unemployment, you are automatically paid unemployment benefit, because there are some criteria at the bottom that are assessed, just as you get it at the moment you are entitled to disability pension. At the moment you are entitled to maternity leave money, you get it. However, in Norway today there is no demand for a decent and warm care for the elderly at the moment you need it, because then it is suddenly about political priorities in the respective municipality of Norway. I have to say that I don't believe anything in a system where you have to have 432 decision-makers, and where you are given the effort that is made in the municipality you happen to live in. The Progress Party will have a system that treats all older people equally, whether they live in the south or north, and that respects their right to decide on their own lives. That dignity must enter into the care of the elderly, and then we must have a system that organizes this better than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1413	The Right Party and the Progressive Party have long signaled that they want government cooperation after the elections. We have been shown here today that there is quite a gap between the parties in economic policy. The party of progress criticises the government for spending too little oil money and says that the use of oil money does not affect interest rates. On the other hand, the Right says that the government's use of oil money will lead to an increase in interest rates and an interest rate shock. Our impression is that the Right wants to tighten up economic policy, while the Progress Party is on the opposite side. Can the Advance Party guarantee that if they are given government power together with the Right, will they continue their own policy in the use of oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1418	I think the representative should remember four years back in time, when the red-green parties talked about possible cooperation, but they didn't. Then, in all directions of the heavens, the Central Party, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left divided, both in economic policy and in most other policy areas that were the subject of debate in this Chamber. The exact same situation must then, with respect to reporting, be able to take effect now without appearing to be a major democratic problem for the Workers' Party. What I can guarantee is that if the voters give us a non-socialist majority after the 2009 elections, I will do what I can to ensure that the parties sit down together and negotiate until a platform they can agree on. I can guarantee that. I don't think you should take your mouth to the full, because unfortunately we've seen enough representatives from the red-green parties do that through an election campaign, where they've engaged in areas by area by area, and failed tens of thousands of voters, who are now feeling failed as a result of severe lifting breaks. But it's typically the Workers' Party: say one thing in the election campaign and do something completely different when you have the chance to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1425	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1428	We are far up in a boom, and I agree with the Government when it writes in revised that high wage increases bring costs up to levels that are too high in relation to our trading partners. I also agree when they write that this cost gap will only continue to increase. I agree that the result will be that many competitive businesses become more vulnerable. They will not have enough resilience when the boom ebbs out, and there are competitive activities that are the locomotive in value creation and the basis for well-being. The high level of costs is a merger of an uplifted economy and a labour market where labour shortages can now be read directly in terms of cost gaps and delays, both on private and public projects. This week it became known that the new college in Westfold, which will cost about 600 million. kr, has received one offeror and a price tag of 100-150 million. kr. over this. This means that the results of not being able to cool down the economy, are gradually coming to the Government's table in the form of demands for extra appropriations. I do not see that the Government at this budgetary audit has done anything to avert or prevent the situation they themselves very precisely describe. A budget audit at such a peak was the right time to adjust the rate. In particular, the active substance would be a number of measures that could stimulate access to labour. It keeps the cost growth down and thus keeps up the interest rate rise. Similarly, incentives for increased savings seem, as has been the case with the Government’s attacks on individual pension savings. There is a need to control the economy, including through budgetary policy, but the Minister of Finance has put on the autopilot and gone under deck. In both its 2007 alternative budget and now revised, the right has proposed measures to increase labour supply. We have put forward proposals for labour and investment-stimulating tax relief and, not least, we have tried to slow down the government's reduction in savings. This would make a good contribution to a tighter fiscal policy that could contribute to reducing consumer growth, cost growth and the pressure on interest rates. The government parties have not found it worth commenting on either their own or others' policy in the setting. That is why I met with excitement the verbal part of this debate. But the chairman of the committee has also been on autopilot. His comment on interest rates is that it goes up when the growth is good. Jada. It does, but the question is how much, and how fast. I might also have expected to comment on some of their own promises from the election campaign, not least the great election promise on cheap industrial power. The Prime Minister and others went round the coast and sold cheap industrial power for votes. That not the previous government got into a subsidised regime, was only because of a lack of will, called it. It is therefore an understatement to call it a downturn when the Government now laconically acknowledges the same thing as the previous government, namely that it is very difficult to obtain specific arrangements under EEA legislation. This was a fool's game. The demonstration outside Stortinget earlier this week offered that there is actually more than the opposition that perceives this fool game. Another very central promise was to eliminate poverty. The path out of poverty goes through activity and work. With the situation we now have in the labour market, we have a golden chance of including the most vulnerable groups to activity and work. That is why, in revised proposals, we are promoting more incentives for this. The permanent way out of poverty is through labour income. Several of the actions Right-wing promote are therefore also measures to get people out of poverty. There are no increased benefits, but there are increased possibilities of self-driving. The historically high demand makes it impossible to plan what comes next. It requires action, and that action does not find one in the government's budget audit. The results of the fight against poverty must be distressing when you recall the storm that was against the Government in this area under the previous government. The number of poor people is increasing rather than decreasing. These measures are notified and appear to have little impact. It seems to me that the Minister of Finance almost chooses tax increases in the hope that it will help on the statistical distribution profile by making the rich a little less rich and equalising the differences. But the tax increases hit the rich to a small extent. They hit the usual middle class. The poor are left on the sidelines and have neither a job nor a job offer. The message from the responsible State Council Hanssen was that people would ‘stand up in the morning’ to improve their own situation. Then the government must first have the will to initiate action that works, and that it has no intention of getting up in the morning. It is the measures that are missing from this budgetary audit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1460	We have many qualities in Norwegian society. Of the two most important, I think one is that we have the ability to transform natural resources into well-being. We've had a thought in this country that has made us exploit the natural resources, whether it's been hydropower, or it's been fish, or it's been oil, or it's been something else. And then we've taken in the money and relocated to well-being. The second quality is that we have had a very large part of Community goods — the fact that there have been common arenas for all, from whatever social background and income you have had. The two qualities were threatened by the previous government. I do not say that they were destroyed, but they were threatened. That's why it was good that we got a new government in 2005 that once again focused on this: how are we going to manage to take care of and develop the common good, so that they all embrace, and how are we going to ensure that we still have control of the natural resources, so that we have a basis to distribute well-being? So the question is, has the government delivered in almost two years? Yes, we have delivered in a number of areas. We also do that in the revised national budget. When it comes to school and kindergarten, we've done a lot of things. The most important thing, the historical one, is that we are soon in the goal that all children have space in kindergarten. But we've also stopped the privatisation of the school, and we've made sure to cover some of the expenses of school books. A little bit of fruit and green comes in eventually. This contributes to the expansion of the common good in which everyone is allowed to participate. We've delivered on a municipal economy. When you travel around the municipalities now, it's again an optimism, which was actually completely absent in the last period. Once again, you have money to do well-being. In addition, you have money to think about new developments and think about what new tasks we need to address. I just came from a meeting now with a small community, where we discussed the importance of getting broadband out, because it's missing around. Now it's going to be broadband for everyone. I'm aware that there's only something over 99 pst. Which has P1 in Norway, so we can barely do 100 pst., coverage, but we get to 99 point something, and it's as close as possible to that kind of expansion. There has been a sensational development on the environment. One is the money, but the other that's sensational is that all the parties on the Stortinget now think that climate is the most important thing. So here we must have done an amazing pedagogical job. In addition, we use a lot of money and a lot of measures to get this done. On top of all this, we are also able to increase the commitment to assistance in the budgets, if some parties here in the Chamber disagree with that. We are able to increase our efforts significantly, so that those with the most difficulty are helped by one of the world's most remote richest countries. So the question is, are we in the goal? We'll never be in the goal. You'll never be able to stand on Stortingen's pulpit and say that now we're on target. It will always be a continuous job for the whole time to get better and the whole time to deliver even more. I could have pointed to a number of areas where we have to work even harder over the next two years to make it possible to achieve even more of the ambitions that we have in the Soria Moria statement. Both through this budget, i.e. the revised national budget, and the previous budgets, we can prove that it has been delivered on a number of things. But the most important thing is that we have changed the course in relation to getting the boat on the right keel. We're going to call about the common good. We're going to have control over the natural resources, so that we have things to distribute to future generations as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1484	There was a lot of self-confidence here. And the government boasts a lot of the so-called Nordic welfare model. Although it varies from country to country, it is a so-called Nordic welfare model that not everyone can fully grasp. But at least what we know about the Norwegian welfare model is that more and more people have public transfers as their main source of income. We know that there are more and more employees in the public sector. And we know that we have a record high tax and tax level in this country. Then there will be fewer people to work in the private sector and provide the income that we all depend on. There will be fewer people in the private sector and less income from the private sector. Does the representative, Ryan, share the concern of the party about the growth in the number of public sector employees, and does he believe that we must try to dampen this growth? Or is there no restriction on the growth of public sector employees by the representative Ryan, because welfare schemes are still new? Does he mean that there is a limit to the number of employees in the public sector, or does he not?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1491	Firstly, I would like to reject the fact that Norway has an exceptionally high level of taxation. The last period I was a member of the Business Committee, and had the joy of getting into the tax levels of other countries. It turned out — and the NHO also agreed with us — that Norway has a medium tax level, just so I can put it in place. As far as the public sector is concerned, it is not the case that we allocate money to the public sector in order for it not to be used for anything. As I tried to say in my post, we're busy developing the common good, and a lot of the common good is the public sector that delivers, whether it's for grandma going to the hospital, or for kids going to kindergarten or school. Obviously, there are limits to how much we can spend in the public sector. We'd like to spend even more on hospitals and even more on schools, but all the time it's a balance: how much money do we have? How much does the Norwegian economy tolerate that we grant to the public sector? Our goal is to get as much well-being as possible, and we're constantly striving towards that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1500	Has the government delivered, asks the SV parliamentary leader, and answers himself without taking the word poverty in his mouth. It's alarming. In a very tight labour market that has changed a lot since the government released the budget last fall, I have found 53 million. in qualifying job measures for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance as the only effort to get vulnerable groups into work. It helps less than one person in each municipality in this country. Is the representative Ryan also satisfied with this effort for the weakest of the weakest in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1508	I think it is nice and touching that both the Right and the Fleet are occupied by the poorest. I'm glad. Then I have to say that the most important thing about poverty is to get people to work. This government, but also other governments, has done a job for us to get low leave in Norway. We've also been working on it, and we've been getting unemployment down to a historically low level. That means that those who get into work will at least have a greater chance of getting away from the poverty situation they could have been in. No, we're not 100 pst. Satisfied with the poverty pact. We're working on it all the time. We've done a lot of work. I mean one of the important steps that we're doing is that we have big common arenas where everyone gets a similar offer no matter what social background you have. We're working all the time to improve the poverty effort. I know that the Minister of Finance does, I know that the Minister of Labour does. But we're not on target. We continue to work and would like to cooperate with the Right on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1517	On 5 June this year, the President of the SV and the Minister for Finance of the country issued the following statement to Dagbladet: ‘No. We do not meet the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration to eradicate poverty in Norway." After two years, the government throws in the towel and says that their main goal is not being achieved. Talk about lifting break! Repeated cuts in the appropriations for special labour market measures are bad for disabled people who have been out of work for a long time. Repeated delays in the run-up plan for the drug field are simply no handshake for the poor. Repeated resistance to improving the situation of those who are left alone with care for children when the other parent has to go to prison is also not a quality stamp of a government's poverty response. Increased indicative rates of social assistance are good, but far from enough to reach 47 pst. by the municipalities not following up. Does the representative Ryan think it is wise to cancel the poverty promise of the Soria Moria Declaration after only two years of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1531	Our party leader, Kristin Halvorsen, has not canceled Soria Moria's promise, but she has pointed out that it is demanding to reach it. As I said before, that's what we work with all the time to get rid of poverty. It's a demanding matter, and we'll probably never reach 100 pst., but we'll be working all the time to find arrangements that make. With my background in the labour market movement, I still believe that the most important thing you can do is to get people to work, get them into the good circle, to go unemployed is very negative for a lot of people. But it's clear that we've done a good deal of work. The representative mentioned this by increasing social assistance rates, but we are working – often with the Christian People's Party, who are also concerned about these issues – all the time to focus on the poorest, so that we can get better and better. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1538	SV and poverty – that’s the break in promises to voters. You first plagued Bondevik II, and it is nice to be plagued on a good cause. But what if you don't bother yourself enough? Two contrasts: In the city in which we sit, the Left and the Christian People's Party are able to clear up petty social aid rates and get the social welfare rates out of a city council of the Right and the Advance Party. So it's going to be possible for two center sections to be added in relation to two right parties. On the other hand, when SV sits in government with someone you should believe is close to them, it is just as little left as what has been taken up by previous speakers. And then we come to something that I think is the trifle all over the place – almost the jewel of the trifle. When you’re in a treatment group and you’re in a treatment group, it’s not at all obvious that you get the school offer that the Stortinget unanimously said you should have. At least I hope that Ryan's representative can clean it up, because it's a nasty system clamp against the weakest. You don't have to kill someone and go to jail, because that's where you get education. If you're in a drug collective, you're struggling with life, and then you have to get help. Two crossroads of thought to the representative, Ryan, through the president.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1547	The representative of Dørum has been in government, and the previous government also focused on working on these kinds of questions, without getting as far as you want. This government also has a strong focus on poverty reduction, not least in the UK. We've said that this is one of the areas where we want to work even harder. We think we've come a long way, but we see that there are new challenges, even within the drug field, that the representative points to. I would like to reiterate once again that ringing about the common good is perhaps the most important thing we can do in the context of poverty. The fact that there are now free textbooks in high school, that one actually gets fruit and green when one comes to school, that we have a good community economy that means that we can get cultural offers for both young and old, are common goods that are free. It's free both for those who have little money, and for those who have a lot of money. It's actually one of the most important contributions we can give to those who have the least. Then we have individual groups, as the representative points out: I fully agree that we must always focus on those who have the most difficulty. That debate must be held here in the Chamber, and I know that the Government is also concerned about these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1556	The representative Ryan talked a lot about well-being, but said very little about creating the values a should benefit. Industrial power has been addressed by several previous speakers, and it has been fully discussed in the revised version. The government promised to put forward a system of industrial power regimes in revision, but it only ended with a review. In earlier debates, the representative Ryan has, among other things: at the Conference on Energy 2006, said that he was going to use Statkraft actively to secure cheap electricity for industry. It was not delivered in the revised version. In addition, the Prime Minister of Stortinget said on 23 May this year that it is not appropriate to oblige State Power to sell power below market price. It has also been confirmed in the Minister of Economic Affairs' terms and conditions for Statkraft. Then the question is, how can the representative Ryan use Statkraft to fulfill the promise of an industrial power regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1565	There's two things to say to that. Firstly, Statkraft is a very important instrument for Norway. They account for approx. 50 pst. of all energy production. It is not certain that there is always price that is crucial for whether the industry is satisfied, it can also be long-term, good contracts at the right price. It doesn't have to be dumped prices, it could be right prices, given in long-term contracts. I think predictability is one of the things that industry is asking for, and as far as predictability is concerned, I think state power can be a good instrument. What's the right price, that's not me. I understand that the industry will have as low a price as possible, but I think the most important State power can do is to help the industry get the right price and long-term, good contracts. So we know that in terms of the industrial power regime, we have something called ESA that we have to deal with, that is, the EEA Agreement. I know that both the Minister of Oil and Energy and others are actively working to see what we can do within the possibilities we have, without breaking the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1574	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1577	Soria Moria has clear ambitions to secure individuals and groups such as suffering from illness, unemployment and/or poverty. The central party is pleased that the government has also found room in the revised national budget to meet these challenges – more resources for hospitals, schools, kindergartens, child protection and Norwegian education. The unemployment rate is high. A number of homeless people have been given housing to organize their lives on the basis of 26 billion more dollars in three years, and the municipalities have a completely different opportunity to follow up their elderly and their young people on, with prevention, with repairs within the drug and psychiatry fields, and with follow-up to the disabled. The county councils have a very different opportunity to ensure that several young people complete further schooling. The minimum pension will be increased by NOK 7 000, and the social assistance rates have increased by an average of 5 pst. We are pleased that more people with difficulties are now being followed up, but there is no doubt that there are still challenges in this field that need to be solved. The effort to smooth out must be reinforced – the concern of the individual is a concern of the individual, and the concern for the values on which our country is built is a source of satisfaction. It's a quality for a society to have equivalency, equal opportunities for the individual, as a basis. It counteracts social unrest, and it gives greater security to some of us. Unfortunately, the 1999 dither message is still up-to-date. Updated numbers show that there are currently the same groups that fall out of the list. Experience shows that the strategies from there keep water. First of all, a softer workline is needed, so that even more of those who wear out, between illness and work, or struggle with the language, are included. The qualification support is a new and exciting contribution here. Secondly, it is still important to ensure more access to the housing market. Thirdly, the social security network has become more finmask - more needs to be done. It's good that the minimum pension is now increased by $7,000 for a single minimum pensioner. But it's NOK 10,000 less than the average wage growth. For this reason, the Central Party is extra pleased that a selection is now being cut down that looks at the minimum pension list's living conditions. We already know that they're different; there are some who have extra income, there are some who have wealth, there are others who only have their pension to live with. We're now going to have to clarify this. Fourthly, better public services are still needed. The NAV reform is well under way. The local economy is crucial. There is now a selection of the government that deals with the income system, which looks at both the ratios of the municipalities that people move from, and the municipalities that have an extremely strong growth. We know that the community economy is entirely decisive for a more dignified care, and so there is a good start to several years' work, unlike in the previous period, where new cuts were still reported in that field. So today's government has been working for almost two years. The centre party is pleased with what has been put in place, on transport, on district measures, on broadband and the work that is now being done on the environment. But two years is halfway in the period. There is no doubt that there are still running tasks for the next two years, and so on. The centre party can register: we are on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1605	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1609	I heard that the representative closed his post by saying that you were on the right track. I would like to discuss exactly the way. In the program for the Centre Party, it says black on white: ‘The development of roads is a public task. the financing of new road projects should be made via public budgets.’;» [[...]] That's what the central part of the magnification program went to for the election for this large-scale period. How, then, can it be that, when the Central Party now also has the Minister of Transport, almost all new road projects are to be financed by tolls? We have never seen such a galloping increase in new toll projects as under this government, and the Central Party has the Minister of Transport. Nevertheless, they also have an obligation through their party programme to finance it from public budgets. I would like to have an explanation for that, if you are also on the right track with regard to this programme item in the programme of the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1619	It is a pleasure for me on behalf of the Center Party and the Government to stress once again that when it applies to road, we are also on the right path. In contrast to previous governments, this government actually follows the national transport plan. At the same time, we take the local people seriously. There are quite a number of local initiatives where people want to supplement the public contributions to get even more going. And I have to say that it's something that I'm surprised about, it's the Progress Party, which couldn't get more money on the road in the previous period, despite being involved in three budgets, and which last night tuned down a big project where the local people were gathering and wanting tolls to make better communication happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1624	The representative of Meltveit Kleppa is liberatingly honest when she says that there is a lot to be done in soothsaying and for the poor. In a reply earlier today between the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark and the committee leader, Skovholt Gitmark referred to the opinion of the Board of Directors in Rusfeld. They felt that they were not even sitting up to the table, but very far down, that the health minister had pushed the drug field back under the table, and that it was not now granted a single penny to start a bet that had been announced for almost two years. He quoted from their websites. This defecate committee leader as crazy premisses and conclusions. Does the representative, Mr Meltveit Kleppa, share this opinion on the opinions of those who do?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1631	Let me say first that there are some points of light in the debate today, and one of them is Right's commitment both in the field of drugs and when it concerns poverty. We actually didn't see that much in the previous period in Stortinget. So it's the trade union's task to point out that there are unresolved tasks in this field. They've actually been with this billion over many years, regardless of who has the seat of government, and that's important, that's their task. But let me point to a field of ownership that means an extreme difference in a short time, that is, the strengthened municipal economy, which means that municipalities have a completely different way of following up each drug burden from the need for treatment and aftercare. But there are unresolved tasks – action plan coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1636	We are on the right track, but half the time there is still a lot left, says Meltveit Kleppa, and that makes me a little curious. For at the Central Party’s national meeting, it was agreed that the social security rights of self-employed persons in connection with pregnancy and childbirth should be equated with what ordinary workers have. Following the national meeting, the party leader and councillor Åslaug Haga elaborated on this further and said: ‘Many women in the districts are struggling to find exciting jobs. Therefore, many of them start their own business instead. If they are now given the same rights as ordinary workers in pregnancy and childbirth, I think even more people will take the step.’ The Christian People's Party is completely united in this. It's an essential part of our business policy. For this reason, we have also put forward proposals on this in the 2007 and now revised national budgets, in the left and right teams. My question is: can the Central Party guarantee its parliamentary leader – and I stress the guarantee – that these rights will be introduced from 1 January 2008? In that case, I can guarantee the Christian People's Party's support for this important action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1648	I don't think this is the day to come with guarantees. But I haven't been able to avoid registering that the Christian People's Party has been very active with different suggestions that they strangely didn't get through or worked on, after what we saw, while they were in government, not just one or two years, but actually four years. And then they come with this now. It's quite right, in this field, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party stand together. We're busy securing the founders. We're busy securing more female and more self-employed totals. This is a case that has not been added to it, but any guarantee that it will be implemented from 1 January 2008, I cannot give today. But that the Center Party is dealing with the case, it's firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1655	In St. prp. No 1 for 2006-2007, it appears that Trillemarka will be protected during this year. There has been no disclaimer from the Government of this. In the election campaign, the message from the Center Party was crystal clear: Forced protection in Trillemarka is not applicable. Since then, the Central Party Group has twice voted against proposals in Stortinget to accept compulsory protection in Trillemarka in Buskerud. Today can be the third time the Center Party does it. And then I wonder, is it still not relevant for the Central Party to contribute to the compulsory protection of the Trillemarka? And how – if ever – will this be expressed in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1662	Let me congratulate Mr Lien on saying that the Central Party has in no way changed its view on this matter. We think this is a matter that is very easy for us to deal with, in the sense that this is so broad a deal between different instances locally. And at the same time, when we're in government -- something that the Progress Party doesn't have practice in that far -- there's a lot of different things that need to be clarified, which have to be spent time on, and where it's actually important to spend time. The protection of the Trillemark is such a matter. That means that in the Central Party, we don't have the way of working, that we're voting for all the proposals here in the Stortinget that we're working with, because we're working together in a community in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1669	When writing the textbook on lifting breaks, a person will find many crown examples from the Soria Moria Declaration. One of them concerns the gas power plant at Kårstø, the highly polluting gas power plant that is opened in the autumn and which the Government has promised to clean by 2009. Now the new date is 2012, and there are figures on the table that show that the cost of cleaning will be between 700 and 1 400 kroner per person. tonnes. Can the rogaland representative Meltveit Kleppa guarantee that during the autumn a decision will be taken on the cleaning of the gas power plant on Kårstø, so that it will be implemented – not when the government parties promised it, but at least as soon as possible? So it might be interesting to hear if this satisfaction with the development also includes the record-high displacement current that is now experienced from the districts into more central struts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1676	Let me do the last one first. It's like good times have a centralising effect. The representative Kvassheim can find this in textbooks that are already written. The central party is not happy with the numbers that are coming, but we are very happy that we are participating in a government that actively counteracts the movement stream, as opposed to the previous government. There are a number of measures, ranging from local economy and transport to special initiatives in specific communities. Then to Kårstø. The promise from the Government that Kårstø will be cleansed as soon as possible is firm, but I also believe the leader of the Energy and Environment Committee knows that it cannot be done until it is technically and economically sound.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1683	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1687	In case of a mistake, I was fed away with only five minutes in my main post. So I get five more minutes, hanging a little bit in the loose air, without a string change, but I'm out enough to say that mistakes can all do. I'm going to use the time to say something other than what I would have said then, except that I would like to say that there are three areas that are prioritised in the Left's repriorities of about NOK 1.5 billion. One relates to climate, which was not least about replication, where we do not choose to buy climate quotas now, but start action at home. Not least it was the representative Heikki Holmås who asked about it. We focus more on climate research, we want more on public transport in big cities and investment aid for renewable energy – and not least 100 million. kr to climate municipalities. That's the answer to why we re-prioritize as we do in that area. In terms of more for those who need the most, poverty efforts, our investment is significantly higher than the government's, with citizens' wages, free dental care for some groups, increased spending on care and more areas of action for people who have problems getting into the labour market, together with just under 200 million. kr. Finally, I would like to point out that the Left is the only ones who will grant money for better social arrangements for self-employed workers as of 1 July. We stand together with the Right and Christian People's Party in a great entrepreneurial effort in this budget. It shows real willingness to re-prioritize. We're approaching the closing three-minute round of revision, and I'll spend the last few minutes on some reflections. Now that we have come halfway through this great period, I think it is in place with some reflections on what two years of majority rule have done with the political change of word, the political debate in our Parliament and in the public space at all. I think, first of all, that it may be a point to point out the attitude we have today towards treatment – I also mentioned something about this in Odelstinget earlier this week, when we dealt with the tax matters. In this setting, several hundred pages represent the government's own comments, summed, up to half a page. There is something about – not least when we have a majority government – that when the minority, the opposition, who has such an important role in our democracy, argues, makes proposals and criticises the Government, I think we have a demand for counter-arguments. That is the very heart of the understanding of democracy. And I experience it as unnecessary and as a little arrogant not even wanting to relate to the arguments that the opposition has. Not least, a majority government has such a responsibility. It would be quite unimaginable under minority regimes to act this way towards the opposition. That's one point. Fortunately, we have a debate today, but I think this also belongs in an attitude so that more people can access it. Then we experience a situation this spring, at the end of the collapse session, halfway through a government period and just before a election, where it becomes impossible to liquidate party leadership debates in the public space through the television channels. Government party leaders say no. And since I am the longest party leader in this house, from the last century on, I must say with a certain weight: I have never looked at my husband! Clearly, it is a basis for our democracy that the political leaders set up in public space to change words at these important milestones that this represents. This would have been completely unimaginable by minority governments. I don't remember party leaders in minority governments ever prioritizing everything else to make themselves available in public space to defend what they stood for. Then you can make a big point out of the fact that the things come late from the government. The government has the right to labor and work with its conclusions as much as they like, and to fart and fart so it goes overtime. We can establish that the historical event is that the Storting must meet again next week because the Government was unable to conclude early enough in important matters. And we know that there are great issues for treatment – and perhaps the biggest of all this summer, before the fall elections – that the government has not yet come with. I think about the climate objectives and the sectoral plans. It is probably the government's right to use the time they need, but I just remember that we are now in danger of having this served for debate in the public space at a time when the Storting has taken vacation, when there are no TV debates, and what is the very democratic mechanism behind major issues from a government is not working. That is a problem for democracy. Finally, I hope and wish that someone from the government would comment on these things during the three-minute round. But at least I hope that it can contribute to the government side, the government itself and the majority of the government here in the Storting, reflecting around this through this summer: how to meet the public debate and the Storing in the next two years. What is increasingly a ‘snakkis’ among politicians, and as one hears in the press, is how the Government and government parties in all contexts spend so much of their time attacking the previous government. This is understandable during a transitional period. Now two years have passed, and it seems more and more obvious that what unites this government most of all is the opposition to the previous government. We also see government councils – I observed e.g. The Minister of Culture, who just left the Chamber — who in the last few days has had a state council conduct in this Chamber that does not belong here, where there is more to being an opposition politician and dreaming back to it. That's not how a member of the government should behave, and I hope there's a change in the next two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1713	The revised budget is not a new ordinary budgetary procedure in which a person opens, or opens the ‘ballet’, to change everything or to make the major changes. One shall adjust and one shall revise, and one shall do as the representative Sponheim said in his first post, one shall show the way. I am very pleased that the Government, while reducing the use of oil money by SEK 3.2 billion, has found room for prioritizing several important areas. And it does so without it exceeding the rule of action. It's actually under 4 pst. And it's been historically since the rule of action was introduced. The government and the red-green majority provide increased appropriations for children, young people and training, to strengthen environmental efforts and for action in districts. It also shows here that it prioritises the areas that are most important for the red-green areas. Kindergartens and kindergartens are being strengthened, and it's very good. As a result of the establishment of more new kindergartens in 2006 than one had assumed, the target figure for the development of new kindergartens has been adjusted in 2007. A capacity increase in 2006-2007 is now being taken into account in a total of 38 000 full-day locations, where 16 000 were taken in 2006 and where 22 000 are now to be taken in 2007. There are about 6,000 more places for this two-year period than what was foreseen in the aged budget. It's the strongest growth in the number of nursery places ever, and it means a step in the right direction towards full coverage. The fact that one increases the appropriations for kindergartens by 370 million. kr, is in line with the previous priorities of the Government, and it delights many young children’s parents. It is also very good that the red-green parties prioritise the state child protection. The government here proposes to increase the operational appropriations for the State Child Protection Agency by 220 million. Extra kroner. This is due to the fact that several children are under care and that one has increased the cost of child protection measures. As one of the parents who now for a few years has paid off their own pocket – and I can afford that, not everyone has – for my son to get fruit in school, which he appreciates incredibly, and which I as a mother think is dietaryly very right, I am pleased that everyone, regardless of the size of the wallet, is now going to get free fruit in high school. It helps to ensure that both children and young people get good dietary habits, which in turn provides a basis for good learning outcomes in school. This will cost approx. Eighty-seven million. kr per year. It is well spent money to get a healthier and happier youth. The government also prioritises environmental measures. It proposes an increase for different environmental purposes of about 160 million. kr. In the field of transport, increased public transport appropriations are proposed in cities, the so-called reward scheme being reintroduced. We know that both in the big cities and out there people weren't so happy when we took it out of the budget in 2007, but now the government and the red-green parties have decided to do as Prøysen said – fix failed from yesterday. People in big cities are happy that we do, and we who are engaged in public transport think that's good. I have to comment that the Progress Party has said several times here in today's debate that the Government does not give priority to health and transport. It becomes strange when one knows that we have given more for both purposes than the Progress Party ever succeeded when they had influence, or at least had the hand partly on the steering wheel in connection with Bondevik's budget. So we've spent $2.9 billion more on transportation. In health, we've spent NOK 1.5 billion more. I remember what the Progress Party was most concerned about when they had their hand partly on the steering wheel. It was to remove the annual fee on the caravan. We're delivering a lot more than that, and we're going to keep doing that. When parts of the opposition in the form of a note write that the government in the revised national budget does not show political priorities and direction, I believe that what has already been said in the hall of my comrades in the red-green parties, elegantly refutes what has been said by the opposition. We're clear on what we want, where we're going, and what's the most important area for us. Since we took over the government, the red-green parties have clearly prioritised. We've given the kindergartens $6.5 billion. We have given the municipalities 14.5 billion kroner. We have said how we want it to be. Then the representative Hageseter or the representative Siv Jensen can call it self-crust, or call it blush, because that's true – and one does not get away from the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1734	In this revised budget, the government has clearly shown that all public debate and budgetary priorities are entirely irrelevant. After the budget has been settled by the government, the matter is closed and settled. No matter what fishermen, farmers, teachers, health professionals, industrial workers, business organisations – or whoever you are – think, the budget is set. Government parties may hear politely at various hearings and may even express a certain understanding of recordings that may come, but in any case, the budget is determined. It cannot be seen in any other way than that the draft budget in the eyes of the government parties is perfect. But is the draft budget perfectly seen with the eyes of the people? Have the majority parties really been able to do everything within the budgetary framework to which all parties in this Chamber – except one – still consider it reasonable to do so? No, it's impossible for the majority parties to think so. The Christian People's Party has pointed out in its comments that there is still room to do more — much more — to combat the division of labour. We see it demonstrated with all clarity. Even in a labour market that cries out for labour — and not just for highly educated and specialised labour — a quarter of the population of so-called pre-employment age is still out of regular employment. It's a huge challenge, and we're not near to meeting it. It is obvious that many people need more assistance — much more assistance — than just a call from the employment and welfare services to apply for job vacancies. It is widely known that people are in line for such assistance. When the government gets over 100 million. At the top of this field, it is a big mystery to me that it chooses not to strengthen its efforts towards the too many who fall outside the ordinary labour market – at least if this is still a job no. 1st@item: inlistbox The Christian People's Party also records that the Government has ample time to move forward with a commitment to care. We have supported, and will continue to support, each krona of increased free income to the municipalities that this government proposes. We agree with the Government that good municipal economy is a necessary prerequisite for achieving the goal of a care service that we can be proud of. But for the Christian People's Party it is so important that we would like to move on now! Do not the government parties really have a single extra crown to set aside in the current year's budget to translate good intentions in the care notification into action? It should be in place to bet something more already in the autumn on care in the municipalities, and on rehabilitation. And so – and should – the government could come back to the autumn budget with an obligating plan to invest in this. That train has not yet left, and I hope that you will take the extra chance that lies there. Let me address the biggest challenge we face in the fight for safe and good growth conditions, namely the climate challenge. Both the United Nations Climate Panel, the British Stern report and the Norwegian Low Emissions Committee conclude that it is possible to reduce climate emissions by two thirds by 2050, and that this is most profitable the earlier we start reductions. Is there one thing that points out as a matter where we need the widest possible political gathering and a great common promise for our nation and for a common future, it is this. Measures affecting both consumption patterns and ways of thinking in this country will need to be implemented. The time has come for it. People are ready for that. We can't afford to wait. Therefore, I am disappointed to note that even in this matter, the Government and government parties have used all their powers so far to discuss internally. The greatest challenge of our time has been reduced to a question of internal draw fights in the Government. I want to repeat what is in the setting. The Christian People's Party and the other two parties from the previous co-operation government are ready to take responsibility for a broad climate settlement, where both international quota trade and domestic measures that are labelled will be included. It's an outstretched and open hand from our side. However, our experience is that the government's definition of reconciliation and cooperation is often that the Storting should adopt the pre-processed internal compromises in the Government, without as much as moving a comma. Of course, the government has the full opportunity to do so, but when that strategy is also used for long-term policy responses to the climate challenges offensively, the political slump has taken over. It is five to twelve in terms of identifying broad and good policy collections on domestic climate action plans. But the government still has five more minutes – if it will.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1753	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1756	I would like to draw attention to considerations about interest rate policy, among other things. In a joint comment with the Right and the Left, the Christian People's Party criticises the Government for promoting a revised budget which, on the one hand, is exposed to political priorities and, at the same time, does not help to dampen the pressure in the economy. In its own draft budget, the Christian People's Party proposes 82 million. kr in tightening and moving 630 mill. kr. My question is whether the Christian People's Party believes it is a significantly changed arrangement in relation to its own demands that the party makes to us in terms of profile and tightening.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1763	The proposal that the Christian People's Party has made, including those parts of what we are together with other parties, is a substantially different approach in terms of political direction and priorities. Among other things, we have based on the labour market situation, priority is far higher than the Government's efforts for the most weak in the labour market. With regard to the tightening-up effect of our approach in relation to the Government's arrangements, it is not significantly different, and what we think is most important is that the Government in this context has chosen a rather unprofiled revision process, and has opted for a revision process that does not include any kind of changes or adjustments from the opposition side of the Storting. It's the most eye-catching thing about this arrangement, not exactly the question of the tightening effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1770	The representative on the high bank is busy getting a wide climate settlement. It could be heard, in the way he expressed himself, as if he thought that these conversations should take place in the Storting before the Government has clarified its own position. I registered that Per-Kristian Foss had a different view of this. He said earlier today that in the government of which he had been a part, there was no discussion 'outward'. Is it so that the representative Højbrätten is in conflict with Per-Christian Foss, or does he understand that it is really important to clarify internally in a government before inviting others to settle?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1775	Let me first say that the government of course has the right to make the necessary clarifications within before it discusses outwards. Maybe it should do it in some areas to a greater extent, and it would have avoided getting a lot of the opposition function from its own ranks. But when that is said, it cannot be so, if the government wants a settlement or cooperation in the Storting, that it comes with negotiated solutions, ready-made solutions, which it is not possible to change in the Storting. Unfortunately, this has happened in the revised national budget, the case of Stortinget now deals with. Unfortunately, it has happened in a number of other cases that the Christian People's Party has tried to settle – the notification of care is the largest and most important, but the fisheries structure policy is another example where it was the case. It was simply so hairy compromises that the government had reached, that it was unable to negotiate with the Stortinget. That's what we're gonna fear about climate policy, too, and it gets more embarrassing for every day that goes, that the government doesn't bring its climate policy to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1782	It was not exactly the case that Ludvigsen, in dealing with fisheries policy in the last period, had an extensive hand for us, which today are government parties, in relation to how the fisheries policy was designed. So that's exactly what I think maybe was a little bad example. But I would like to say that, with regard to the overall budgetary policy of the government parties and the Christian People's Party, the view of economic conditions and the view of priorities has been very close. I expect that Dagfinn Højbrätten is comfortable that we now, after the new government took over, have NOK 12 billion more, funds that were previously used for tax relief, which are now used for public welfare at different points. Just one question: I'm very concerned that we're going to get a wide bet on climate. But I expect Dagfinn Højbrätten to also agree that when we present something to the Stortinget, the negotiations on climate issues cannot at least be drawn in a less ambitious direction. We know that some of the games on Stortinget do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1791	I can guarantee the representative Heikki Holmås that the Christian People's Party will not draw that climate agreement in any less ambitious direction, and I think the representative knows that too. But now the representative Heikki Holmås is guilty of what has become a pattern from the government parties and its state councils towards Stortinget lately. Instead of responding to challenges, you attack, attack the policies and positions of the previous government, and you often do it on a false basis. It is quite correct that this government agreed to cooperate on a fisheries policy settlement, but when the matter came to Stortinget, it was impossible to get the government parties to move on a comma. That is correct, the representative Holmås cannot deny it. But I regret that, because we were actually prepared for a dialogue with the Government on fisheries policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1798	I will follow up on the representative Alf E. Jakobsen, who earlier today gave tribute to the representative Syversen for the Christian People's Party doing something that is good, you should have it – to say it first. So I want to follow up on the Aasen Agdestein question. It is such that, on the proposal of the Christian People's Party for containment, the Christian People's Party will take 140 million. kr from the stock item. Isn't that a little bit of budgetary bridging to do that? And what's the point of a saving of $82 million? kr if you have to cover it from the country's own account?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1806	I would like to say to Mr Sund: thank you in the same way. Fortunately, in most cases, we have too much sense of each other's positions. What I don't have a lot of sense for is the attempt to produce a cut at the cross post in the order of magnitude that we're talking about here, which is unprofessional. It is perfectly clear that any government that comes to the Grand Duchy and is to deal with a matter as a revised national budget should be prepared to allow for certain adjustments to the external item. I've been in several governments and I've been in on it. It's nothing extraordinary, and it's nothing unprofessional. It's a real discovery that we've assessed based on the information we have on the size of the miscellaneous item and the experience we have with what it's used for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1813	I hear that the representative Højbräten says that the budget is unprofiled, while he is direct and says that the Christian People's Party is coming, despite all the modest changes. It's opaque. It's a minor consumption in relation to the government of $82 million. SEK, of which financed by 100 million. kr above the stock item, so in sum there is no difference. It is clear that the representative, Højbråten, has a point as to whether the Storting should not be able to fine-tune the budget when it comes here. It is a position that not only the representative Højbrätten understands, but also others share it. I took a line because I think it was a little strong words the leader of the Christian People's Party used when he talked about it being “merciful” for the Government in relation to the environment. Would it not have been a thought that the Christian People's Party could have been clear and come up with its options in relation to the climate challenges? I want to ask a specific question: Is the Christian People's Party going in to electrify the socket? It would be a concrete measure like monks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1824	The Christian People's Party has presented its alternatives in a broad climate policy action plan adopted by our government in spring. We support action on the base, we support action in the transport sector, we support action in relation to households, and we support the Central Party in demanding that two-thirds of the measures should be taken in Norway. I also understand that representatives such as Lundtegen from the government parties think it is bad that the Stortinget has nothing to say about moving on to anything in this revised budget. It's probably an opinion that goes far into the ranks of the government parties. I would like to insist that the government side acts as a paralytic in the major issues – climate, care for the elderly, poverty. And when it comes to some other important issues in which the Government shows the power of action, the development is going in the wrong direction. This applies to the Bioethics Act, to the Marriage Act, and to the anchoring of values for schools and kindergartens. Here the government is going directly in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1831	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1834	In many contexts, there is a debate about the intergenerational relationship, and there is talk of a generational account. I also think this is a moral dilemma and a moral problem. The older part of the population, the generation before me, lived in a time when there was not so much abundance. They also financed their last generation pensions, they paid taxes and taxes to build the country after the war, and they have worn a lot. Then it happens that the state economy is gradually going much, much better. They will then be told that we cannot afford to provide elderly care without cows and waiting lists – also called order servers for the providers of these services. They are told that in the case of pensions, too much money is being spent, so a commission is being set up to reduce pension payments for the future – not for those who are pensioners today. But they experience a lack of regulation of the basic amount over many years, as the Norwegian Pensioners' Association has pointed out many times. It's a significant slowdown in terms of whether G was regulated in line with wage developments, which was probably meant to be. And they know that they're still being viewed as a burden on the state economy. This, I think, is attitudes that are completely immoral. When the state economy this year is made up of a profit of NOK 338 billion, all the other parties in this room say that it is extravagant and almost stupid when the Progress Party proposes well under DKK 10 billion of the DKK 338 billion to increase the minimum pension at least, and comply with the wishes expressed by the Norwegian Pensioners' Association in terms of both young disabled and minimum pensioners in particular. I think it's sad. I assume it's because you've been fooling around by some tailor- and weaver-economists who claim this. And I've probably also heard the governor say that if the Storing and the government spend more of their huge profits on behalf of the Norwegian population – and in particular on behalf of the weakest and sufferers – interest will rise. I wish Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen could whisper a few words in his ear – and perhaps through the newspapers – that what he should have said, if he was honest, was that if the accumulation and government don't do as he wants, he would punish the Norwegian people by setting up the interest rate. It is he and his chief rule who decide it – no outsider. When you set up the interest rate, you also punish all those who have not increased their borrowings – who took up their loans four to five years ago. They're being punished because you have some remarkable macroeconomic theories. In its revised national budget, the Progress Party continues its efforts to improve the situation of the elderly, those who are most disadvantaged and those who need health care. We're increasing the hospital budgets by 700 million. kr. We are increasing the earmarked allocation to municipalities of NOK 1 billion, which is to be used to increase the volume and quality of elderly care services under the control of the county. We know we have capacity. In fact, the government parties of the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party and those behind the Workers' Party, namely the trade unions, say that we have a lot of unused resources – in the form of small job breaks in healthcare and in the care of the elderly and in the form of people who would like to work more, which would increase the scope of the service, which in turn would mean more time and more staff in home care, in home care and in hospitals. But there is no money to pay any wages to do that work. At least we're strengthening this – with $1 billion. The funds are earmarked, so the municipalities can't use them in other areas. The Progress Party is only in Stortingen to say that if you want to improve care for the elderly, you have to give money to care for the elderly. You can't give money to anything else – and then send a prayer to some place and hope that you spend the money there on what we want. If we have a purpose, we need to control the money more than what goes on for the economy in general. I find with sadness that at present only the Progress Party is occupied by the weakest of the elderly, by the minimum pensioners and by those who need health care – in the sense that when we see the obvious shortcomings, we will do something about it during the revision of the budget. Everyone else speaks and speaks for – and then they vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1853	For the Government, it is important to invest in those children who do not experience enough security and stability within their own family. It is therefore important for me to start by saying that this budget is raising children's children's protection – children for whom we must jointly take responsibility for getting a good and safe life. I would like to remind you that over 30 000 children receive help from Norwegian Child Protection. The vast majority of these children get good help from competent and committed employees, who do their utmost to make assistance the best possible. In this debate, I want to give those who spend years of their lives helping these children and their families. State child protection has been through a very demanding process of conversion. Despite the economic challenges, government child protection employees have done a great job. We know we're on the right track. More people today get help. Several people get help outside the institution, and more children get help where they live. We also see that there has been a improvement in the field of science and research. Today, we ensure a knowledge-based child protection, where, in addition to meeting love, children also meet subjects and new working methods, which help them to live a better life. In this revised budget, the Government proposes to increase the operational framework for the State Child Protection by 220 million. kr the current year. This budget is not unprovoked – as the representative Højbrätten called it instead – but an offensive effort. We use the revised budget to promote our misguided policies. I am pleased that a total increase supports the Government's proposal. It's very important that we have a political commitment to our child protection. I want a lot of debate and commitment to child protection, not least in the municipalities, where 80 pst. of the total work on child protection. That is why we also attach great importance to the repatriation of the municipal political debate on child protection. This government has provided the municipalities with a financial framework that the former bourgeois governments have only been able to fantasize about. We've made it possible to bet well and forward-looking on municipal child protection, and we've increased the appropriations for state child protection considerably since we took over government power a short time ago. The National Audit Office has had significant observations on the accounts of Bufatat both in 2004 and 2005. That is why we have carried out an external review of the use of resources and governance in the state child protection. I can promise Stortinget that we will continue to follow the situation very closely and have a close dialogue with the Children's, Youth and Family Directorate. Furthermore, the National Audit Office is now running an administrative audit of the national child protection system to be published for the autumn. After the Riksrevision has presented its findings, the Ministry will carry out a broad evaluation of the entire reform since the government assumed responsibility for the child protection of the county municipality. Let me end as I started: a critical look at the economy, systems and organization is primarily important for the sake of the children. Systems have no value in themselves. We need to ensure that the money we allocate is spent as best we can, and we need to ensure that the services are organised in such a way that they meet the needs of these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1879	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1882	In the 2007 budget, EUR 3.8 billion was allocated to the State Child Protection Agency. In 2006, there was an additional allocation of 200 million. kr. Now there's another additional allocation of over 220 million. kr to the State Children's Protection. The Council of State pointed out that the Riksrevision has been very critical to the accountancy in Buffetat. The Council of State itself says that there are now more effective measures in the field of child protection, so there are fewer children in institutions. Nevertheless, this budget is increasing by 220 million. kr. Can the Council of State assure the Government that Bufdir and Bufetat now have control of the economy, so that we release more appropriations and more comments from the Riksrevision?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1889	This government will continue to contribute increased appropriations for the protection of state children if we believe that it is sound. As Stortinget is very well known, this government took over a reform that was directly underfunded by the former government. The fact that we have entered into and taken responsibility in each budgetary round to improve the situation of the most vulnerable children, I believe is sound political treatment. We have taken a number of steps to ensure that we get the most out of the money we put into the state child protection. We have a management system to ensure that Bufetat remains within the limits granted. But we can't fully guard ourselves against there being some factors in the future that make us have to go in and quality assurance, and if necessary we will come up with supplementary appropriations. What this government has said about the state child protection is that we should use it as a tool to help the most vulnerable children. The meaning of national child protection is to provide the municipalities with more professional help.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1898	It's right, as the council says, that the municipalities need help, and that 80 pst. child protection takes place in the municipalities. Fortunately, it is now possible for municipalities to enjoy increased tax access and better economy. But the economic report tells us that only 34 pst. of the municipalities increase the provision of child protection, and half of the municipalities say that they do not have the power to operate sound child protection. The central government of the municipalities indicates that 800 posts are needed. That means it's pretty far ahead. My question to the Council of State is: what will she do to help us get a reinforcement in the municipalities as well, and then I think in addition to the purely financial, which I now expect is in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1905	I can't stand to say that I am very pleased with the cooperation government we have, and the finance minister we have, who has been willing to raise the local economy as significantly as we have done. This means that it is actually possible today for child protection to compete much more with care for the elderly, with kindergartens and with other good purposes in the municipalities. This is the situation in which Norwegian child protection has been provided. Therefore, from the first day, I have been concerned that we need to politicise child protection far more strongly in the municipalities. We have taken a number of initiatives to this end, including: by engaging in a direct dialogue with the KS system. We have had, and we are going to have more meetings with advisers and rapporteurs all over the country all over the autumn, just to put these children's situation much stronger on the agenda. Nor can we deny that the economic situation of municipalities has not been very good in recent years. But through the laborious promise we're making now, the numbers that the representative himself had in mind show that child protection is going in the right direction. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1913	The President will ask that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1916	Councillor Karita Bekkemelm has expressed on several occasions that she wants more men at home, but she does not do any political action to stimulate it. On the contrary, there is not a single case that improves the rights of fathers. In the evening of October 10th last year, the Council of State said to Mr Bekkemelm: "You have to take more care of yourself." But the same Council of State did not bring either one krone to an increase in the paper commission or to give all fathers such a right. The previous government started a stepping up of the paper commission, but the steady course is breaking the government council. Now it's up to the sitting government to give all fathers the right to papacy and to expand it to ten weeks, as they promised. The Christian People's Party proposed in the revised national budget to increase the paper issue by one week and to give all fathers the right to paper commission based on their own merits. In the evening of 10 October last year, the Council of State, Mr Bekkemelme, said: «Unfortunately, the world does not always go forward by itself. Equally often, political will and action are required.’ The Christian People's Party agrees. What will the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1930	At first I want to say that I am very pleased with the commitment and impatience of the opposition in this field. That's what we're taking with us in our further work. I must also say that it is gratifying that we have received such a vitalization from the Christian People's Party on the approach to these questions after they came into opposition. I ask for understanding that there is more impatience in this cooperative government than there was in the bourgeois, conservative government in the short-term phase of reforms. But I think that's reason to remember that we've been sitting for a relatively short time. We're in the middle of a budgetary process that the Storting is going to be familiar with in a few months. I am asking for an understanding that the new proposals that the Government will put forward are, of course, not a basis for a debate on the revised budget. I can promise that this government has an offensive approach to the role of man, to the role of father. We've set up a new public sample to go through children's lives. For the first time, we're going to present our own big message on men and equality. We also dare to take new debates on family policy, which are not only about the excellence of the core family, but we realise that society today is much more diverse. It's important that we focus on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1939	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1942	Let me first grasp something that was stated earlier in the debate by the representative Heikki Holmås. It was in a row where Holmås criticized the Advance Party because we had suggested to grant 120 million. kr to the railway in revised form. That's what I think is a little interesting, because SV has tried to present itself as the railway party. I would like to put the question back, as the Minister of Finance is also present. The billions that this government has granted to the railway, where are they? Is there any more railway by them, or is it such that you have only recruited the consultants who were rationalised away in 2001/2002 – that they have only got their jobs back – and that there may not have been any more railway of this money? I ask the Minister of Finance to check this. In the case of Heikki Holmås, there is something that is somewhat interesting. This government has said it should have more goods from road to rail. But they don't follow up. That's what the Progress Party is doing. Once the Transport Committee has been on the road, we have seen that the capacity of the railway has been detonated in the case of goods. Why? Because it's just one lead. You don't have enough crossing tracks. It takes the Progress Party seriously, and then we grant the necessary funds, so that two and three crossing tracks are put in place in the Gudbrand valley, for example, to get more goods from road to rail. So SV's representative performs to criticize us for that. I think that's very interesting. It is also interesting to look at the context of what this government, with its head SV, is doing in terms of getting more goods into maritime transport. What is this government and SV doing in terms of getting more goods into maritime transport? Yes, they increase the charge for maritime transport, so that those who wish to transport goods by sea, if necessary, go bankrupt. It's also very interesting. Much of the debate is about the Progress Party spending so much money. I would like to have a debate with the Government about how to spend money, about how to behave when you donate money. From the government's side, today, 26 billion dollars has been spent more on behalf of the municipalities, 4 billion dollars more on this side and 5 billion more on that side. But will there be any result, other than that there will be pressure in the Norwegian economy? No, we still have equally long hospital cows, there are equally big problems in our care for the elderly, etc. And our traffic is slower and slower, so there we also have to spend more and more money. The average speed of the railway has fallen. The average speed of our roads goes down. It means more consumption, not only in the private sector, but also in the public sector. The best thing we can do is do as the Progress Party: spend billions of dollars on modernising our infrastructure, making society more efficient, both private and public. If an efficient infrastructure is provided, resources will be released in the public sector that can be used for health, care for the elderly, at school – ‘you name it’. But now we're in the situation that the infrastructure is so bad that you have to cash in more and more. The private sector needs to do so in order to win the competition, and the public sector needs to do so because the wheels are moving too slowly. It creates pressure in the Norwegian economy. So the best thing we can do is to dampen the pressure in the Norwegian economy. The finance minister should perhaps travel to Ireland, because there they have tackled it in such a way that they spent the night giving NOK 340 billion to streamline their infrastructure, to dampen the pressure in the Irish economy. I would rather have had a debate that had gone on with this with greater efficiency, better security, better environment, dampened pressure in the Norwegian economy. Then we had beaten a lot of flies in a taste. Although there were great hopes across politics in the Transport Committee that the Ministry of Finance might now look at it a little differently and distinguish between investment and operation, and that the Ministry of Finance might come up with project funding, further Public Private Cooperation, within infrastructure, I record that – no – the Ministry of Finance said no to it. It's sad, and it helps to create pressure in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e1961	We have heard earlier in the debate the Queen of the Punishments in Norway, Siv Jensen, make flaming speeches about everything that is wrong in Norway. Now we've also heard the prince, Per Sandberg, who continues in the same rental. Let me just first comment on a couple of things Per Sandberg brings up. Goods over from road to track – I fully agree with that. That is why there is also money to do something about crossing tracks and that kind of thing in revised form. It's true that it's blown up, and we have to do something about it, but then we have to do something about the investments in the railway. And that's what this government has done. 2 billion more for investments in the railway leads, among other things. To that on the distance where I commute every day, from Drammen to Oslo, it is now built double tracks from Asker and all the way into the city. We have to put that in place if we're going to get more goods off the road. It would be interesting to ask Per Sandberg: does he think that there will be more or less traffic, that it will be completely quiet on our roads, by cutting to the railway, as the Progress Party suggests? At least I know what the answer is. While we have the transport politician Sandberg in place here, I also want to challenge him on one point. This is that the Progress Party is clinging to one national measure relating to the climate debate, on the car tax side and to fuel taxes. The government has done several things in relation to the revised relationship to the so-called flexi-fuel cars and to the incorporation of biofuels into ordinary fuel. I see it as quite special when all the parts in Stortinget agree that you should do something with both E85 cars and with blending into fuel and that kind of thing. I'm just going to quote a little bit from an attitude related to the matter we have here, because that's where the Progress Party writes: ‘biofuels, with the exception of E85, are exempt from the tax on petrol.’ [[...]] This isn't right. There is neither a CO2 tax, nor a petrol tax or an alcohol tax on fuel with E85. Furthermore, the Progress Party writes in the setting: ‘in order to make the E85 more attractive to the consumer, the levy on the ethanol content should also be removed in E85.’ [[...]] Here the Progress Party turns in open doors. There are no taxes on E85, except for normal VAT. But that's what happens when a party that only realized in winter that we have a climate problem in the world is going to get an environmental policy overnight. There is also no picture of the only national action on the car’s side in terms of climate, namely the taxes on these so-called flexible cars and the incorporation of E85. I could imagine that transport politicians Sandberg and Vice-Chairman in the Progress Party commented on how he understood that we should remove charges that have already been removed. So the general environmental picture that's now drawn in this room. I challenged the representative Lars Sponheim instead on some of the proposals we have made since the government took over almost two years ago: gas power plant cleaning or CO2 capture at Mongstad, 50 pst. increase in the use of public transport and introduction of NOx charges to mitigate part of the particulate emissions. This was in no way a particularly popular grip in some parts of the Workers' Party. I guess I can admit that, but we took that grip anyway because it was important for the environment. Furthermore, we have been able to convert the car charges, and we have received NOK 20 billion more for new renewable energy. Now you criticize the government for not doing anything, and I ask again, what similar proposals of this size did the previous government implement? I hear you talk about having a national climate deal. All right, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come Make the suggestions about alternatives of this size that I have just explained! Then we can discuss. But so far it's just a lot of noise that things don't come. Many suggestions have been made! I have already listed more, but I can read a few more: blending biofuels at a level that is even more ambitious than what the EU has set up, and buying allowances. That's what we've spent on money for now in the budget. Furthermore: NOK 10 000 in reduction to the so-called flexifuel cars, the reward scheme for public transport is back, as well as several other minor issues, including the Ministry of the Environment. Overall, this is a historic turnaround in environmental policy. I have no reason to stand here and be ashamed of the suggestions that are coming. When we already know that we have put this on the table, and we know that in a short time the big climate message comes with all the other great measures, I just say, «Bring it on!» I'm ready, we're ready. But then soon I'm going to have to put these proposals on the table, before you shout, howl and yell that this government doesn't do anything about the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2005	The President must note that, for example: ‘Iggu’ is not a parliamentary term, nor does it call the leader of the ‘queening’ party. There are others who hold that title.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2008	The health of the Nordics is getting better, life expectancy is increasing, and medical progress is making it possible for us to treat more and more diseases and improve the quality of life of those who are ill and in need of care. On the other hand, we experience social differences in health, and too many people feel that they are not taken sufficiently care of when they need care. In this, there is a huge challenge that the Government has taken step by step, and we are absolutely on the right track. We promised a lot when we took over. One of the promises was that we would get 10,000 new annual works into the care sector in four years. We promised significantly more money to the municipalities. The background was that we should be able to provide better quality, not least for the many older people around the municipalities who needed it. I am very pleased to be able to inform Stortinget now about completely fresh figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, which shows that last year, i.e. in 2006, the municipalities received about 5,900 new annual reports in the care sector. That means that after a year and a half in the government chair, we have managed to get 7,800 new annual works in the care sector. So we are well above halfway to the target of 10,000 new annual works. When someone says it doesn't matter that we give more money to the municipalities, this is the best proof that it matters. In this way, we manage to give a better offer to those who need more day care, culture, social activities, or to the many dents that don't get good enough offers. What is also gratifying is that more people now offer full-time jobs in the municipalities. It is very important for the many, especially for women who sit and wait on a phone and wonder if they will be offered a job today or perhaps tomorrow. Everyone should have a living wage. Then we can also give better quality to those who need it, because they get fewer people to deal with. I would also like to pay tribute to the many local politicians who actually give priority to care when they get more money from the state. So in 2006, there were over 1.4 million people staying in public and private somatic hospitals. There is an increase of 5000-8000 stays from 2005. In addition, there were over 3.5 million outpatient consultations. It's almost the whole people in outpatient clinic. That is 390,000 more than in 2002. In 2005, there were 1,200 more doctors and 2,400 more nurses than in 2002. At the same time, we get back more for each of the heads we insert into our health care system. Despite strong growth in the demand for hospital services, waiting time within somatic areas has been reduced. It seems to have stabilised about 70 days on average. When the government earlier this year submitted proposals for additional appropriations to our hospital of 800 million. kr, it was because the budgetary processes of some of our health businesses revealed greater challenges than the government was aware of when we presented our draft budget in October 2006. Two of the regions, Health Mid-Norway and Health Nord, reported that they could not reach the 2007 Grand Duchy’s performance requirements, without having a significant negative impact on patient provision. I believe that, as far as possible, appropriations for hospitals will be provided once a year, and it will be in the regular budgetary rounds in the years to come. I also want to say a few words about another very important matter. It's rehabilitation and habilitation. Our government has the ambition that anyone who needs it will get it. It's a fact that we've never spent that much money, rather in the area that we do per. today. The government also works closely with user organisations and stakeholder organisations in this area, creating a new comprehensive strategy for how to make this offer better, because it is not good enough everywhere in our country. A substantial part of the rehabilitation must be done where people live, in the municipalities. So the rehabilitation we provide in the municipalities has increased, the money we give to the training institutions has increased, and what hospitals offer has increased. A figure of this is that, in the case of our healthcare companies, the number of stays increased from 2005 to 2006 by 10,000 in terms of rehabilitation in our hospitals, i.e. up to 93 000 stay. So I mean we're on the right track. We're not in the target, but we're going to get even further into dialogue with those who wear their shoes in this area, to give an even better offer to those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2029	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2032	It was a bit of a sunshine story. The party of progress is disappointed by the government's lack of willingness to take seriously the signals from the hospital sector. So we've gone in by 700 million. kr more than what the Government has. There has been considerable uncertainty about closures, downsizings and increasing waiting lists. Only Health Nord has the objective of cancelling 250 people on the health side. The last thing that is now highly topical is the summer closure of food departments around the country. For us, this is completely unacceptable. Is the Government satisfied that the Government is providing a health budget that leads to considerable uncertainty related to summer-related maternity wards and the dismissal of health professionals, or does the Council of State consider the hospital economy to be satisfactory?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2044	When I hear the representative Fredriksen, I think there's a lot of ways to describe reality. There is no doubt that there are still challenges to our hospitals, but it is therefore a fact that we have never treated so many patients and have never used as much money as we do in Norwegian hospitals. It's actually so that never have as many people been treated as they do today, and we can treat a lot more suffering than what we could, for example, only ten years ago. We have spent 4.6 billion more on this sector since 2005. That's necessary, that's right, and we're going to go on that way. To the question of summer-related maternity wards, the representative Fredriksen is certainly aware that I have brought it up with the regional health companies. I am not at all satisfied, especially with the efforts that Health Nord has made – especially at the hospital in Narvik – with the fact that they have not made sure that the birthers have received the information they should have and that they have not established the accompanying service that they should have. I have also asked them to consider once again whether they can reduce the time they had planned to close the maternity ward. This is what we are going to try to avoid in the future, especially in those parts of the country where there are long distances to the nearest hospital. I have not been satisfied with this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2053	I have a question on behalf of some of those who have the most trouble here in society, the drug addicts and their relatives. The Board of Directors of Russfeld says the following on its website: ‘The country goes so far as to laugh, says the Minister of Finance and addicts pay the price. A historically poor government budget is being followed up by a historically poorly audited budget. Through the previous health ministers, the Russfield has sat down until the table, right at the bottom, but Brustad pushes the field back under the table. A crown is not allowed to start a bet that has been announced for almost two years!’ The Chairman of the Financial Committee, from the Workers' Party, dismissed the drug addicts, their relatives and professionals' experiences and description of reality earlier today as false, even almost untimely. Does the Council of State Brustad also desist from the drug addicts and their relatives? Does she mean they're talking nonsense about their reality and their harsh everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2065	I'm not familiar with the reality that the representative Sjéli here is trying to describe in relation to the attitude of the government and our parties to drug addicts. We – and I personally – have met many of the drug addicts, their relatives and their organisations, so claiming that we push them under the table is with respect to reporting total errors. This government has since we took over, strengthened the drug field by 210 million. kr. We have taken away the excess for those who need help out on the street or at home, who are sought out by outpatient activities. We have a proposal for treatment here in Stortinget, which has not been treated, to give people with drug problems full patient rights in line with everyone else in our society. I have also promoted, on behalf of the Government, a separate special waiting guarantee, to help the young people under the age of 23 who have mental or drug problems, so that they should wait considerably shorter time, to mention some examples. Then we're going to move on that way. Nearly to give the impression that we are not interested in doing anything for this group, I react strongly. It's completely wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2074	The Christian People's Party was very disappointed that there was no broad agreement on a commitment to care for the elderly, and that there are no additional funds to prioritize this area in this year's RNB. The Christian People's Party proposes to invest in elderly centres, and to establish its own incentive to ensure that older people have a better age. Elder centres are the main prevention measure among the elderly to facilitate good social networks, good food provision and physical activity for the elderly. Is it appropriate for the Council of State to support a specific incentive grant for the establishment and development of the elderly centres?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2081	I fully agree with the representative Woie Duesund that day care for the elderly is a very important offer. It's sad that we've seen that some municipalities, due to the laborious economy in the past, have had to drop some of those offers. That is also the reason why I sent out my own circular last week to all the municipalities in the country where I underlined the obligation of the municipalities to provide to all their inhabitants who need to be with others – activity, culture or what it might be – an offer to do so. Then I refer again to the large-scale investment the government has made in the municipal economy, which is supported by a majority in the Stortinget, and which produces results. The figures we've got today from the Statistical Central Bureau, on a record shift in the care service with 7,800 new annual works after just over 1 and 1/2 years with this government, that's exactly what we're doing to improve the quality of what we're offering to the elderly, whether it's day-to-day, or offering to clients or offering to others who need it, which is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2088	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2091	In the summer of 2005, our finance minister, Kristin Halvorsen, had a clear message for students, teachers and parents: now the bottom is reached for School Norway, now the arrows are going to point up, she said. And now the arrows are pointing up to School-Norway. Right-wing saving school is replaced by a policy where we are betting on quality in school. The difference between us and the right is that we know that quality costs. It gives the most knowledge for the students. We're going to bet in high school. The OECD is now saying in a new report that students in countries that have invested in private schools have lower average skills in mathematics and reading than students in countries that have a common school for everyone. In countries with many private schools, therefore, who your parents are means more than what you perform at school — more than what is the case in Norway. If we had got all the thousands of private school places that were approved during the release of the last period, it would have meant massive cuts in the public general school. This is why the new Private School Act is a common school. When we took over, we wanted a new course. We'd bet on quality in common school, and we'll deliver that. Expenditure per year students have increased by 5.8 pst. Just last year. Now we see that the number of students in school goes down, but at the same time the number of teachers goes up. It gives each student more time with the teacher. It gives better follow-up. The arrows point up. This revised budget follows up the school effort. All high school students are now getting fruit and green. We set up trial schemes with all day school, several hours each day, with play and physical activity in the middle of the day. The progress party believes we're wasting money on a longer acquittal in the middle of the day with other activities. Well, we don't think six, seven and eight-year-olds learn more effectively by sitting still six hours on the school bench. But this is in line with the school policy of the Progress Party. They're going to cut one school year, and the students are going to learn faster when they're younger. The 14-year-olds should have learned as much in nine school years as today's 15-year-olds should have done in ten school years. We do not believe that more efficiency in childhood results in children and young people learning more. We know that many young people choose the wrong course of study in higher education. It makes too many quits, because the school became something different than they had thought. So let's do something about that. In all counties, we set up career centres to strengthen cooperation between high school and higher education. Soon, all secondary school students will be given the opportunity to choose a post-secondary course in order to become better acquainted with the offer there. Some have organized it as a whole day in high school. It shall provide more qualified choices. The funds we now allocate will provide more room for cooperation between high school and higher education and greater resources for counselling for individual students. In the summer of 2007, the Minister of Finance is pleased to note that she and the Government have reversed the trend: they have invested in school rather than tax havens. We're not in target, but the arrows for School-Norway are pointing up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2110	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2113	After hearing the article from the previous speaker, I am tempted to comment on it throughout my article. Let me just link a couple of comments to that. Lower skills in those countries that have private schools, said Anniken Huitfeldt. It is a funny paradox that Norway, unfortunately, delivers the most mediocre results in a number of subjects. Even the Swedish Minister of Knowledge is out saying that he regrets that there have been no stricter demands in school policy so far. It should at least be a goal to learn to read, and it might have to be a minister of knowledge to admit it. So to a number of the attacks against the Right that have taken place during today's debate on our alternative budget, and the fact that we have gone out and said that we believe it will be less expansive than the Government's. Yeah, there's really little doubt that in sum it's less expansive than the government's. Isolatedly, there are several of the points that would have minimal say. Yet: The totality is very good. This is an expansive budget which, in its revision, has become even more expansive. When both the Central Bank and the leading economists are concerned, the Minister of Finance should also follow closely. That right there spends 722 million. kr less than the Government, has isolated little to say, but the fact that structural measures are also focused on increasing growth capacity contributes, of course, in the right direction. Getting better and simpler rules for increased labour migration, we know there's a lot to say. When Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen went out and said that today's labour immigration means about 1.5 percentage points in terms of interest rates, it is obvious that the Right's proposal will also have a positive effect in relation to what the Government proposes. In addition, when we look at transitional arrangements for the new EU countries, Bulgaria and Romania, it also has an impact. In Norway, some 700,000 people are outside the labour market, and the government is doing very little to get them back to work. Right-wing policies have an effect in getting more people from social security to work. Finally, when the package actually provides for savings incentives, such as: pension savings and the BSU, the sum becomes slightly less expansive than the government budget. Finally, two comments on flexifuel cars, for example, the Council of State said. in a Question Time to me that the conditions should now be better equipped for flexible cars. Well, the vast majority of flexifuel cars sold last year still have, with the 10,000 kroner that were given now, worse condition than was the case for them in 2006.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2126	After the reconstruction of Aker Brygge last year, we carried out a strong reinforcement of police action against reindeer crime. A total of 127 people from the police districts in and around Oslo, as well as Kripos and Økokrim, have since worked full-time. One of the results so far is the Natal action, where a large number of people were apprehended and large amounts seized. According to the Oslo police, it is already less attractive, while at the same time being associated with greater risks, to be associated with criminal gangs. Not only has the targeted response to recriminalism been a new revolution in the fight against organised crime, but it also shows how important it is that the police work together in new ways, across all dividing lines, to get more effective and targeted efforts. The red-green majority shares Oslo's ambition that Oslo should be the safest capital of the world. That is why we have only this year strengthened Oslo police districts by about 80 million. kr. We've strengthened the funds for foreign affairs work, we gave 42 million. kr to the NATO summit earlier this year, and in the revised national budget, where we are strengthening the Oslo police force with a new 30 million. kr, we continue the strong effort against recriminalism and other organised crime. Earlier in the debate, the representative Leirstein of the Progress Party pointed out the issue around, among other things. the introduction of new working time rules for police and vacant posts. Just to meet the impact of the new working time regulations, we are strengthening the operational budget of the police districts in the revised national budget. This is how we create a more accessible police force in the districts, while at the same time getting better and more orderly employment, which has been one of the battle cases of the Police Union. In addition, we set up the first police station on the Internet. Police shall systematically patrol the network to combat sexual abuse of children by persons they have met on the Internet. Also PST and Ecocrim are strengthened by revised. With regard to the situation of law enforcement vacancies, the main problem today is that there are not enough trained police officers. This is a responsibility that the previous government and the Progress Party must take. They didn't realize what needs we have today for newly educated police. The red-green majority has now secured the recording of a record high number of new aspirants at the Police College, and it's extra happy that there's never been so many aspirants with a minority background before. This is how we create security: through resources, through new ways of solving the problems, by ensuring more police and prison officials' skills, by providing more visibility and accessibility, and through targeted and strategic work in the fight against organised crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2137	In the northernmost state of Finland, the police resource situation is now so difficult that urban communities such as Hammerfest and Kirkenes have unattended police stations at night. At the same time, more and more county councils are being forced to establish long-distance vigilance cooperation. This is the result of a very tight police budget, which has led to many unoccupied jobs. But it is also a result of new working time regulations. The consequences are poorer police preparedness, increased response time and a higher threshold for the expropriation of crime. This is a development in Police Norway that is in the opposite direction of building safer communities and a more visible police force, which Stortinget has foreseen at the latest in the discussion of the June 2006 Police Report. The right notes that the government’s strengthening of police operating budgets is insufficient. That's why we want to strengthen the police by 100 million. SEK 45 million. kr is for further strengthening of the Oslo Police and 55 million. to other police districts. This means that job vacancies can be filled. We want to reverse the trend, and we don't want to accept that known perpetrators go free or that social security fraud is to be blamed. The right presupposes that the consequences of a new working time system are closely followed and that, if necessary, the Government comes to the Grand Duchy with proposals for measures to prevent police work, especially in the districts, from collapsing and becoming a haven for criminals. This is a matter of security and legal certainty. It already seems clear that planned police work, prevention and investigation will be affected. There is a cross-political consensus that the line in front of the prisons must be removed. However, the urgency of the government has led to the importance of getting new places quickly. It has meant an increase in open spaces, while the need for closed spaces is at least the same. It's a line of detention sentences for Ila, and the police have to let criminals who should be in custody go. The right has underlined the need for planning for several closed sites, and supports the comment of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party to consider a new prison in Haugaland for today's building can be adapted to the storage. Efforts against child abuse via the Internet must be stepped up. Online police station is an important first step. Right will strengthen this field by 5 million. to ensure that the interdisciplinary work carried out through the SAFT project can be put into permanent operation. Further research is needed to limit the risk behaviour of children and young people in digital media use. The government has two Barna's houses on the drawing board. The right considers such a successful action in our neighbouring country Sweden, and should soon become an offer in all parts of Norway. The right has therefore allocated funds to prepare Barna's house also in North Norway, Middle Norway and South Norway as well as in Oslo. Children in crisis shall be able to turn to one place and meet a collective auxiliaries. Finally, there's something self-painerous about a government that's going to go out on funds for search for the survivors at sea and kittens 2 million. kr – at a time when the state’s revenues are higher than ever and the Government has more to travel with ever. Of course, such a cut could not be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2155	The revised national budget has a clear red-green profile. Within a reduced use of oil money, a number of bet areas are a priority. When I hear the assembly here today, and not least the Advancement Party, I have to say that I think we are actually on two different planets. Although we now have broadband across the country, it is possible that we do not have contact. The leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, is an expert on black painting and describing the government's policies with misery. She has done the same today. I'm not going to be a supervisor for the Progress Party, but I actually think that with that high volume there can also be cuts on the line, so that there may be several reasons why the party doesn't go up on the gallup. The government is betting on broadband, not least in the districts and in the county I come from. It is delivered on child protection, and then we deliver in buckets and buckets in children's courts. We're almost up in 39,000 places, more than anything has ever been. And what are the individual opposition parties in this room occupied by? Well, it's that the finance minister made a statement about what she would do if she didn't reach the goal. I like government councils that make demands on themselves, and I like governments that make demands on themselves – and then we actually reach the goal, and we achieve results. So I have to say that those of the opposition who focus on it are on wild ways of seeing what matters. We should be glad that we are actually able to deliver what we have said we are going to deliver when it comes to babysitting. We have municipalities that set up in a very good way to get to the results. It's being built, and there's solutions for kindergartens all over the country. In this context, I have to say that I am amazed that the Right wants more people working, but at the same time they want to increase the nursery rates. When the revised budget came, Ulf Leirstein, who is the vice-chairman of the financial committee, went out and said he was disappointed that the government had not spent more money on health companies and hospitals. Well, we've put it in. We reported it earlier, so here it's 800 million. kr, which is also to go to the level of psychiatry and alcohol administration. It has also been requested. It is a significant amount entered in the revised budget in that area. I have to say that I do not recognize myself in the misery description given in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2170	Initially, I would like to draw attention to a mistake in the Right Note under Chapter 2751 item 70 Medicinal products. The last sentence shall be replaced by the following: ‘These members are asked by the Ministry to continue the process of transferring medicinal products from individual to general reimbursement, in line with the proposals of the Cooperative Government and the position of the Storting.’ Fortunately, Norwegian health services have become better and better at saving lives. But living is something more than surviving. Many people experience that they do not get a decent life after being injured or affected by illness or accident, because the offer of habilitation and rehabilitation is too poor. Health surveillance has warned that the provision of habilitation services to children is failing in both municipalities and health businesses. Only half of young people who have suffered head injuries in road accidents are offered early rehabilitation, which is a prerequisite for recovering key functions. 400 blind and partially sighted are in line to wait for rehabilitation services. Women with musculoskeletal disorders wait up to two years in place on Jeleø Kurbad. Opposing services in Oslo have demonstrated that more and more addicts are being rejected when they ask for detoxification. The right considers that the next major health policy effort must be in the area of habilitation and rehabilitation. This will be an investment in better quality of life for many patients and their relatives, and it will also help to reduce the need for care and social security services. The right is very disappointed that the notified escalation plan for the drug field has not yet been submitted. We're proposing 50 million. kr to immediate action in this area, inter alia. to strengthen the detoxification offer in Oslo. In addition, the Right will increase the appropriations for the purchase of vacant posts in the training institutions. There is no point in patients waiting for help while these institutions have free capacity. This is done despite the fact that the bourgeois parties earmarked an allocation for this purpose and provided that the RHFs were to conclude agreements at least in line with this amount. The right will also ensure a quality promise for a more dignified care service, and will have a knowledge promise that can increase the competence of employees. So we're going to add 50 million. to provide more unskilled people with the opportunity to take professional letters. At the end of the day, a small comment on my exchange of lines with the Council of State Brustad. It is not I, but the addicts, their relatives and professionals who now say that they are put under the table, by the Brustad Council. That's what she should take over. She said she didn't know herself again, but I recommend her to take a walk out into the real world, that's where the addicts and their relatives are, the ones who have it most difficult in our society. They are the ones who have now said clearly about how they experience the government's policy. A little more humility on the part of the council had been in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2187	After four years of hard work on the part of Finnmark County Council, the government was finally helped to develop the broadband offer in Finnmark with a fibre-based transport network. Finnmark is the only country that does not have a fibre-based transport network, and a high-speed network is essential for building the Finnmark of the future. Finnmark has huge distances, and we can do something about digital proximity. With an efficient transport network, a company in Karasjok will be a key pressure from the world market. Then great distances in Finnmark won't mean anything. Finnland is currently struggling with weak networks, low capacity and expensive solutions. It prevents the development of industry, the further development of telemedicine and the development of schools. The county council in Finnmark has contributed 14 million. kr for the expansion of the fibre rasé between Alta and Hammerfest. This is the area of the county where 40 pst. by residents living and where it is commercially profitable to expand. The rest of the county has spread settlements, long distances and few inhabitants. It's not profitable to expand broadband here. Therefore, the county has calculated that this part of the extension should be a split layer between the State, the county and others. Both the previous government and the current government said that they would contribute government funds in those parts of the country where expanding broadband was not profitable. For four years, I have been signed as rapporteur-general, and many others – for there has been a broad commitment to Finnmark in this matter – have had many trips down to Oslo to get the government to follow up its promises. Finnmark was not helped by the previous government of this transport network, after several visits to the modernisation minister Morten Andreas Meyer from the Right. I am therefore very pleased that we in this government have been able to see through in the revision of 14.2 million. kr to a fibre-based route in Finnmark. The contribution to Broadband Finnmark is at the same time increased by 255 million in State grants for full broadband coverage. kr. We're going to spend 377 million. kr in 2007, i.e. five times as much as the right-hand parts have set up broadband in 2005. This shows that we have a Minister of Renewal and a government in the districts, who knows the importance of this infrastructure being in place in order for all parts of the country to be able to participate in the rapid development of the digitisation of more and more services in society. This means that Middle and East Finland will also be connected to the national fibre-optic core network, and it will now be possible to connect the Norwegian fibre cable and the Russian fibre cable that stops in Nikel. This is an important infrastructure in the North Region Initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2204	"An apple a day keeps the doctor away." We know that children and young people eat too little fruit and that especially young people eat too little fruit. We also know that as the young get older, they eat less fruit. We also know that youth throws the food package they bring with them to school, in garbage, at least a lot of the kids don't eat it. That's why I'm glad that the government in revision is in favour of a free fruit and vegetable scheme, and that you start with the youth. From the harvest, the pupils at the youth stage, and the pupils at the nursery, who are under the same roof as the youth, will receive a free fruit and vegetable scheme. The main reason why SV is so satisfied with this is not that fruit is healthy, not that it tastes good – it does – but that SV wants to enhance the quality of school. We want the students to learn more, and today there is no doubt that there is a link between learning and nutrition. The kids have to get help at school when they need it. Many students wait too long for the help they need. Many students feel that they are not getting help until many years have passed and it is too late. Many students have got so many holes in their basic knowledge that they turn from knowledge rather than turn against it. SV is very happy that the government wants to go early with the effort. The government has announced that it wants to extend the school day from the first to the fourth level — this in order to get more time to read, write and calculate, and to focus more on nutrition and physical activity. SV is very busy with real-time betting. Everyone knows that real-time action requires practical organisation and practical approach, and that this takes time. Therefore, SV is very happy that the Government is doing well. In the revision, the Government has made use of funds for a pilot project with a longer school day. At SV is not good advice expensive. Many young people drop out of education, and too many students do not complete high school. The reasons are many and complex, and the government is in a good position in many areas to ensure that all students are learning at school. We know that advice is a critical point. There are many students who do not receive the advice that is needed. We also know that the students who seek advice are often the students who need it the least. That is why I am very pleased that the government in the budget has invested in increasing the strengthening of the advisory service. This shows that with Swedish government we get a better quality in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2223	It is in good economic times like those we now have that we can invest for the future. Unfortunately, the government that is now sitting has turned out to be the opposite. As an example, we might mention that the quality reform in higher education has gone from being fully funded under the Bondevik government to being zero funded under the Stoltenberg government. There have been major cuts in basic funding for universities and colleges, cuts that are well noted. Just at the University of Oslo, it's a cut of nearly 60 million. kr in one year. The Council of State Øystein Djupedal said, in the context of the presentation of the 2007 budget, that he had taken a break. It might seem that it really was a little bit more. It may seem that he went on a platter and left to rest there, for in total the government that is now sitting has cut the transfers to higher education and research with large amounts of money, amounts that are well noticed. Therefore, the right insert approx. 400 million. additional to knowledge and research in the revised budget. We are increasing the efforts of scholarship holders, basic funding for universities and colleges, we are spending large sums on teaching aid, on extended school days – in short, measures to improve pupils’ learning, and on knowledge and knowledge development. It's very rare the representative Anniken Huitfeldt is in the main hall without talking about private schools. She did, too, recently. More interesting than talking about how many private schools we have in Norway, I think it's talking about how much difference we have in the so-called single school in Norway, in the public school. It should be a cross of thought, and it should be interesting for the government parties to examine why it is that in Norway we have very small differences between schools, but we have huge differences between students. We have in Norway a small amount of fresh schools and private schools, and we almost don't have free school choices. In countries where there are large numbers of private and in-house schools and high levels of free choice, there are far less differences between pupils. Finally, I would like to mention an action that is important and which it is important to bear in mind also for the future. The right-hand side will add 10 million. kr extra in the revised budget for performances. It's incredibly important that we get a good recruiting of priests in place, and that the clergy who are priests remain in the vicarage. There is a major recruitment problem, and many of those in the profession today are about to retire. I will end there: it is in good economic times that we can invest for the future. That's why it's so sad that the government doesn't.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2236	The government is constantly boasting of the Nordic welfare model. It's a little difficult to define the Nordic welfare model, so I'm going to relate to the model that the government actually uses. So successful is this model, says the Government, that more and more countries want to copy it. There are still no examples of land, but at least that is what is claimed. Let's take a look at what kind of society this model has actually led to. Something's positive, I'm not supposed to underestimate it. The model has given a very large number of women to work – even if what they did when they were at home was also important. It has resulted in relatively small pay differentials, it has sometimes led to low unemployment, and it has brought with it very many public benefits. If the Government wants to boast above, it must also accept that the model also has a number of negative consequences. The model has brought high taxes and very high taxes. It has led to a public infrastructure with major shortcomings. It has brought hospital cows and cows to prisons. It has lured a record number of low-skilled immigrants into the country. It has led to a low level of competence in public schools. It has led to a record number of people who have their principal income from public transfers. It has led to a very large shortage of highly skilled labour and has led to a large number of people employed in the public sector. Then, at any price, the government is going to highlight the Nordic or Norwegian welfare model, and at the same time it has to admit that the model has its price. For example, it is no coincidence that Norway is considered to be very attractive to people with little formal education, while countries such as the United States attract the competent labour force. This is, of course, due to Norway’s shy welfare system, while the wage level of skilled labour is relatively low compared to, for example, the United States. It's one of the medal's back pages. It is a paradox that Norway can today refer to the following statistics per year. 1 January 2007: Number of people on disability benefit 298,000, number of people on temporary disability benefit 28 000, number of people on social assistance 60 000, number of people on sick pay, 120 000, number of people on redeployment 66 000, number of people on day pay 58 000, number of people on rehabilitation benefit 44 000, number of people on transitional benefit 12 000, number of people on other social welfare schemes 12 600 – a total of 698 000 people receiving their main income from public transfers. In the NAV offices and related businesses, 45 000 state employees and 12000 municipal staff are currently assisting these people. So there's a total of 57,000 employees. Expenditure on NAV represents one third of the State budget. At the same time, we have a record high number of public employees in all other areas – this to manage 4.5 million people. At the same time, fewer and fewer people are working in the private sector, creating the value to try to finance all of this. Yeah, we put oil money on to make it, but at least that's the truth. Against this background, it is very difficult to give an unreserved tribute to Norway’s welfare model.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2255	The representative Sandal replied to a reply from the representative Dørum that he was optimistic on behalf of the research, but he admitted a lack of commitment and in particular that nothing had been done to correct it in the revised national budget. Sandal knows that it has been a long time since you lived well on water and bread in Norway. The UH sector is disappointed and is also exposed to a use of figures that are known to be insane. In particular, there is a liquidity reserve. The danger is that it undermines the responsibilities developed in the sector and that hospital conditions can also be created there. The consequences of the cuts are beginning to become visible. So the budget disappointment is great in research and higher education. The bet on the future is sacrificed. It's quite worrying to observe that State Council Djupedal has developed a circular argument around the 3pst. goal. Governments have made the strong growth of the Norwegian economy a problem in terms of achieving the target. So the greatly increased degree of freedom has become a problem! Furthermore, business structure is a problem, and one cause, and lack of researchers another. If the business structure had been a problem, one should rather increase the focus on activity. At the same time, the economic structure, which is a problem, is a problem for future growth and well-being in Norway. There's little sign that the government is taking it seriously. You cut the treasure and you don't fix it. This will lead to a decline in the investment in business research and will lead to a decline in business-oriented research. You cut all support for scholarship holders and you don't fix it. In addition, the lack of researchers is used as a reason for not maintaining the ambitions of the research front. You also have a judgment from Trondheim District Court where Sintef is charged with taxes on research. There's no sign that you want to do anything about it. Norway is low in research and innovation activity. We are low on all statistics on income from new products in Business Norway. The government is following a policy where we may be caught by our own oil wealth. We lack strategies to create the future welfare base on which we depend. You take away the future for the benefit of the present. As the representative Eriksen Soreide said, we are not only inside a resting area, but the government has rested on the edge. It could be a fateful and expensive rest break.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2268	The case of the protection of the Trillemark as the Government came already in St.prp. No 1 for the current year, is in many ways strange. It has now become clear today that the Right supports our proposal No. 103. I really appreciate that. It's not strange – it was high time. The Progress Party greatly appreciates the support we receive. What is strange, however, is that SV basically does not support the voluntary protection of Trillemarka. What the landowners have presented in the Trillemarka case is therefore a proposal on the largest forest protection that has ever been implemented in Northern Europe – 100 000 targets have been proposed for protection. Here SV with both hands could have dug up a protective area of 100,000 dimensions, while at the same time could have been taken from the Advance Party, and now also the Right, the opportunity we have today to point out that this does not happen. The consequence of what the government now seems to be doing is that all the voluntary protection processes around Norway are going to stop. The level of conflict will increase dramatically, and it will be both harder and more expensive to implement protection around Norway. I didn't think SV was interested in that. But when this case does not get an explanation, it must be because SV runs this case hard – against local democracy and really against nature protection. It is strange that the representatives of the Workers' Party are unclear about this. Someone thinks something, and others think something else. In the Workers' Party it seems that the closer the mountain you live in, the more friendly you are with regard to voluntary protection – but it is unclear what the Workers' Party thinks about the matter. But the most strange thing about this matter is that the Center Party is unable to clink to today and say that it is not appropriate for the Center Party's big group to support the enforcement of Trillemarka. I had been waiting for that, and if it was also going to lead to the government saying OK, we're not taking any protection in this period, we're waiting with the protection until after 2009, it would have been all right, but it's strange and sad that we're not getting clarification today, and that there's voluntary protection in Trillemarka being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2290	The defence and the defence economy may not be the theme or area most discussed in this debate today. But the Progress Party, which is a very defence-friendly party, wants to say something about what we think Norway should do, among other things. for our girls and boys who serve the duty of protection. The Progress Party wants a defence policy and a defence based on the challenges we face in today's society, and not least in tomorrow's society. Furthermore, the nature of the defence must be such that it can easily be adapted to the various threat images. This can best be ensured by maintaining a fundamental defence with core tasks in Norwegian soil, but with the capacity to participate in operations elsewhere in the world. Ever since Norway acceded to the UN Treaty, we have been obliged to participate in international peace operations. When NATO went in to extend its commitment to this too, our commitments in this area increased accordingly. The Progress Party sees the need for this type of involvement within a level that is sound in view of our crew and material resources. We are therefore concerned that the defence has materials that are suitable for use in high-risk areas. In particular, the Progress Party is engaged in personal protective equipment and a personnel vehicle providing maximum protection for our soldiers. We regard it as critically necessary that our forces involved in foreign operations have adequate and sufficient equipment to perform their tasks in the most secure way possible. In the case of our other servants, these too must be few materials suitable for carrying out the tasks imposed in times of crisis or war. Departmental equipment and other equipment must also be adapted to the tasks to be dealt with by the defence. This is essential in order to enable the modernisation of the defence to continue in an appropriate and sound manner. The party is very concerned that the material needs of the defence are being met. Therefore, we must have a predictable budget focused on a higher level of activity in all arms. If we mean what we say, that we have to have a good defence, it must also follow with funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2303	It has sometimes been claimed that there is no big difference between our current finance minister and the former, although I expect both will take due distance from such a claim. So an interesting thought spin: if the Bondevik II government had presented today's budget, would the current position have been equally impressed with the proposals? I'm assuming that the answer gives itself. This is as much politics as substance, and that's how it should be. It's part of the political game. That's what it's been, and that's what it's going to be in the future. Nevertheless, I find it interesting when, among other things, the chairperson of the Judicial Committee is up and boasting of today’s situation in Police Norway. The description that the representative Bjørnflaten had here, I think, unfortunately, the rest of Norway has problems getting to know each other, and perhaps especially people who live in Oslo. We're talking about the introduction of funds to the capital, we're talking about special means. The fact is that soon there is probably only one police post left that is not closed in Oslo. If there is a way to serve the audience, it must be quite natural to set up a police post online, because that must be the only available police post available. But if it creates something more close, I'm very much in doubt about it. And when we don't fix it in the capital, what about the rest of the country? With large-distance counties in the West, which are in the inner East and, for that matter, in Trondelag and northwards, we have great problems ahead of us. But the government is very satisfied. It's probably the only ones that's satisfied, because at least I haven't realized that anyone else is. The same is true of the problems surrounding the queue. I'm recording that the Minister of Justice has said that the reconciliation queue is going to go away. He's about to succeed. He has considerably reduced it, but I think it would have been interesting to see how he does it. What you're doing is you're letting more and more people go before and before. Now the facts show that more than 50 pst. early release of the prisoners. What the government has created is a criminal machine of eternity, where people are judged, go in, come out and be judged again. We don't have a system to take people out. The government has talked about – it should have the honor of – having a non-return guarantee. As of today, it's just a honorary word. There is no guarantee of a relapse. There is no bet. There may be a discussion forum. But if there is something the government is good at – and it may have learned from the previous government – it is setting up different working groups to look at things. Sometimes it had been nice with some action in this house. The challenge is that there is usually a lot of sound and little substance. That might be the way it should be. There is certainly no point in moving the debate forward, but the effort that this government believes it is doing in the justice sector would, unfortunately, be a clean and sharp reduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2317	The government is presenting a revised national budget that is highly disappointing in the health sector. Governments have been honest enough to say that a lot has been done. However, the willingness to follow-up, especially in some areas, is clearly lacking. In some areas, there is also a slightly distorted picture of facts. In the case of rehabilitation, the Council of State says that there has never been more money allocated for more stays. Another truth is that the number of rehabilitation days is dramatically reduced, the whole of 20 pst. within Health East in 2006, and the reduction continues. All private-run institutions have free capacity. Many have so much available capacity that they are in danger of being closed down. New groups have emerged, including: groups of overweight, and heavier rehabilitation, which is now a priority, cost so much extra that it goes at the expense of some other groups. Those affected are elderly, revenmatics, and others with chronic disorders. It is now much more difficult for them to get a rehabilitation stay. The Progress Party has therefore granted 100 million. kr more than the Government, especially for rehabilitation. We think it's necessary to be able to make a bet. The government also agrees that anyone who needs it should be entitled to rehabilitation. In the case of child and youth psychiatry, it is also a field of action. Recently, the Council of State issued a waiting-time guarantee for this group. It'll cost you. Of course, the wait-time guarantee can be met in several ways. The threshold for getting help can be raised, so fewer are on the waiting list. Number of hours per application. patients may be reduced. The shortening of treatment provision has been used in other contexts. Of course, other patient groups may also reduce their supply. For the Progress Party, all these options are completely unacceptable. We realize that to get faster help for children and young people and to provide them with a good treatment requires more money now. The Progress Party has chosen to strengthen child and youth psychiatry with earmarked funds, which will also be used for the purchase of private services and institutions and for interaction actions where knowledge transfer to municipalities can be carried out by specialist health services. Better competences in municipalities are important. In order to provide the specialist healthcare service with a little extra resources and free capacity, it is important that extra earmarked funds are allocated to this area. Elder care has also been mentioned. I am always part of more and more posts. Today there were 7,800 jobs. There'll be almost 1,000 new ones a month. The signal I get is that these posts are not used specifically for the elderly. There are a lot of younger users. In yesterday's municipal administration in Fredrikstad, many single rooms were converted into double rooms. This is not a bet the Progress Party wants. We have granted an extra NOK 1 billion for the care of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2330	There were almost as lightning from the clear sky on very many occasions when the government and the finance minister proposed last year to eliminate the tax advantages of individual pension savings. During the last year, the government has been forced to kneel. They are now putting a new proposal on the table to reintroduce this scheme. The government's proposal means that it will be possible to save up to NOK 15 000 per year in an IPA agreement. The old scheme opened as known for up to NOK 40000 per year. There is little doubt that with this proposal, the government wants to limit people's ability to save taxes and not least save on their own retirement life in the future. Providing continuity and predictability arrangements is not said to be the great strength of the Government. Root and frustration in the last year around IPA and annuity is a good example of this. What the government now offers, after going from a scheme that had expired, is to replace it with a system that is even worse. It is mildly frustrating to see how the government treats people's savings, money you started saving from a long-term perspective. We're talking here about savings agreements with a duration of between 20 and 40 years. I never stop wondering about this government. We recently adopted a new old-age pension scheme, where the benefit base is lower than what we have today. In addition, the indexation will mean that you are paid less, and the indexation will be lower for each year you are a retired person – for every year you are a retired person with the new scheme, so you lose purchasing power. In addition, the Government comes up with a proposal that makes private savings almost impossible through a very poor IPA scheme. The Progress Party wants to stimulate increased savings. That is why, today, we have also tabled a proposal for a new regime in which we want everyone to be able to save within a framework of 1 G. We want to create a system where collective occupational pension schemes can be combined with individual savings, which will stimulate more people to save for their own old age. People will then feel that it is more profitable to do it than it will be with all of these constraints that the Government makes with its proposal. It is clear that with this proposal, the Government does not want people to save their own pensions. Finally, with respect to reporting, I have to say that when the Minister of Finance tries to give the impression that only the rich are saving in these schemes, it is wrong. All the studies show that most people use them, and that there are as many women as men use them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2343	Several of the Right-wing speakers have challenged labour party speakers at the Council of Trade Unions within Rusfeld’s perception of the Government’s efforts in the field of drugs. They have stated that Brustad pushes the drug field back under the table, and that a historically poor government budget is being followed up with a historically poorly audited budget. The response Peter Skovholt Gitmark got from Reidar Sandal was that Reidar Sandal did not recognize himself in Peter Skovholt Gitmark's description. Sylvia Brustad answered a similar challenge from Sonja Sjøli that she did not recognize herself in Sonja Sjøli's description. The quotations we have confronted the Government are neither Peter Skovholt Gitmarks nor Sonja Sjølis' description, but that's how the Council of Rusfield perceives the government's drug policy. I would like to take the opportunity to challenge the Minister of Finance to answer how she perceives the Council in Rusfeld's description of the Government's policy, namely that they have been pushed under the table, and that it is a historically poor budget. Will she also dismiss it as a crazy description? Or will she acknowledge that the Government has failed, and that it will do better when the 2008 budget is presented? So until the proposal as an overall opposition has been put forward today, namely to ask the Government to comply with Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's promise to remove as soon as possible the curtailment of the pension for 67-70-year-olds working. It has become evident through this debate that it was not meant to be serious, because one has not intended to remove the curtailment of the pension to 67-70-year-olds as soon as possible – unless it is such that the Government, when they are going to implement something and say that this is going to happen soon, thinks it will happen in the next major period. It's actually several years until we get to 2010. I believe that this is quite serious for the Government, because that means that the Prime Minister had not resolved this issue internally in the Government. At best, you've tricked the pensioners. The Prime Minister saw the pensioners into his eyes, promised that the curtailment would be removed, but then it turns out that it was not meant to be serious. Finally, I will be allowed to give an explanation of vote. The right will vote in favour of proposal No. 105, from the Progress Party. We agree that this is the Government's decision-making area, but when we see how the Government has trained this case about Trillemarka, we believe that the Government now needs advice, and our advice is to follow what is in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2356	There have been a number of speakers from the position who have shifted into family policy. I think, among other things, The party's parliamentary leader mentioned this with female founders and better rights in the context of pregnancy and childbirth, and that nothing had been done under the previous government. Then I think I have to remind you that the work was in full swing. It was sent to the hearing. A working group had done a solid job of putting the professional in place. So it was perfect for the new government when it joined. Now it's almost two years, and nothing has been done. Then I also remember that the last government expanded the paper issue by two weeks. Nothing has happened here with the new government either. The previous government started work on fathers getting cardboard papers based on their own earnings – improvements there. Nothing has happened here in the working time of the new government either. Finally, we have heard that the budget that has been presented is perfect. There is no need for any changes here, because everything and everyone has been taken care of here. We must only note that the red-green parties in this Chamber have their own rule of action when it comes to the revised budget, and it is at 0.0. Here you shouldn't move on anything, even though there are hearings, whether there are organizations that make good sense, or whether the opposition might have some other suggestion it was worth listening to. But you don't. It's a man's full right not to do, but wise policy from a majority government I don't think it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2365	We are in a debate in the middle of the big period, and seen with the Left's eyes: what does the majority government look like? In climate policy, one strives to be careful to say, do we have ambitions, or do we want something? Yes, you even strive with a normal principle that says domestically: Do your duty, and demand your right. It seems that the government has problems applying that thinking internationally. It seems like you're based on the fact that Chinese people don't follow the Internet, that Indians don't follow the Internet, and you shouldn't have the experience of those of us who travel part of the world, that if you want to get respect out of the world, you have to sweep for yourself before you start sweeping for others. It's not just that there are technical challenges. The government is struggling with basic general moral principles that apply wherever you live. Then it's the poverty problem that's been up here earlier today. Here we have to note that ambitions have been reduced. You choked full Bondevik, and I thought it was okay to push a case forward, but when it comes to the piece, it also dampens down. Then we have the Government's sharpest lifting break, at least in relation to the Finance Minister's party: Higher education and research have been taken down from rest cutting to rest cutting to wrong cutting. When I joined the politics, I once experienced in Trondheim city government at the end of the 1960s the following statements from one of the old concrete socialists: – Set death, Dørum, the e we who have power. At present, you sometimes get the same feeling, in the sense that you get what you sometimes call the silent treatment: Revised for last year – no comments. We have the power, write down the numbers. Revised this year – has gone a little bit into family therapy, a little bit more words, but the same reality: we don't even want to argue, because we have power, and then we use it. It is actually fabulous for one who has grown up with the great glare of the Workers' Party – as the old concrete socialists spoke clearly and clearly and used the power clearly – to experience that now, more than 40 years later, it is no different, except that there are now three parties that have this as a collective act. So, at the top of it all: here you've planned a big project, and you'd think it would flow political documents out of them. However, no – committees in Stortinget have almost gone out of business, and representatives are being presented. Looking at the number of large-scale announcements from the Bondevik II government against this, the minority government was almost perceived as a – I was saying – virile youth race, while this government is almost geriatric in its slowness. Where did the energy go? It was the historic project that was to be carried out. It's almost like I, who started in politics many years ago, feel put back to the time when one was to fight the arrogance of one party state. Now it's not a one-party state, now it's a three-party state. The troll doesn't have one head, it has three heads. But this makes the political struggle more juicy and more enjoyable, so I'm looking forward to what comes, even though the silence of power is not so good. But the rest of us have to take it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2384	Only to avoid misunderstandings: I participated in a line exchange that applied to Kårstø. There should be no doubt that from the government's side it is the technical thing that has our dilemma and that has been the basis for the year it can be cleared. So there's a theme that's gone back today, and there's care for the elderly. I think it'll surprise many when it comes to them that the Progress Party will increase the state bureaucracy both locally and centrally. It's their way to get better care. The centre party does not want a development in which standardised A4 solutions set in Oslo are to replace the healthy local population that today contributes to good local solutions for the individual. On the contrary, we think it is important to have the freedom locally that ensures smart, creative and good solutions to adapt local conditions. After two years we can sum up that there's a significant change in this field compared to the way it was two years ago. I was the leader of the Storting Municipal Committee for four years. I'm not going to say that we got daily messages, but at least we got messages once a week from the despair of local peoples who either had to cut in school or in care or in both. Now we see that the government is in a good way to fulfill the 10,000 annual works promised before the care of the elderly, and we see that the possibility of following up the elephants who need special follow-up is greatly improved. In the Center Party, we're very happy that we're in a government that not only talks, but not just wants an elder's care surrounded by good words, but thus allows money. The Christian People's Party has expressed an outrage today. I understand that very well, because they were involved in all the restrictions that happened, the scarce municipal budget, which systematically meant that it had to be cut in night shifts and much more before the care of the elderly. [[The President clubs.]] Now we're on another course.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2399	We're going in for landing after a long six months, and I notice that two former Left government councils now think it's a more important sport to count the number of documents submitted in the Stortinget, and believe to measure political will and ability based on it, than to measure it on the basis of the policy implemented. But we have always known that the representatives of the previous government are more concerned with counting than with finding out what is actually of quality. We can discuss this further, but I think that now we'll have to take the summer, and then we'll see when we meet again for the autumn. I thought it was right to just take a little summary, because there was one thing I was a little worried about during the debate, and that was the question of poverty. I noticed that the Right was driving with a high cigarette lead in the poverty debate. I have clearly stated that I believe that we cannot be satisfied until we have made sure that it is no longer poor here in Norway. At the same time, I would like to stress that I believe we have done a lot of good. We have spent twice as much money on poverty measures during this period as the Right, Christian People's Party and Left managed to do during the entire previous period. Then I think you should be a little humble also from the opposition, and especially from the Right and the Advance Party, when you attack us. The right-hand side finances 2/3 of its own poverty effort by increasing the fees for people who are thrown out of their apartments or get their money collected by the tax collector in another way. That's the way they're financing poverty. I'm just saying, yeah, yeah, you guys about it. But there's not a particularly good distribution policy behind that way of thinking. The other way they're financing it is by increasing nursery prices. Okay, if you increase kindergarten rates, it's those with the worst advice that's no longer offered kindergarten. If you increase as much as the Right talked about, there are up to 7 000 children who are going to be pulled out of the kindergarten. There are quite a number of parents who can no longer work because they have to be at home with their children. Does it help to increase the supply of work? No, it doesn't. Does it contribute to fairer distribution and poverty reduction? No, it definitely doesn't. And then to the Progress Party with Carl I. Hagen and Siv Jensen, talking about the elderly poor. Well, go to Oslo: Then we see how the Party's old age policy is in practice. There have been fewer sick homes during the years that the Progress Party has run Oslo, well documented by the Evening Post, which writes about developments in Oslo. Look at how you treat the homeless in Oslo. Oslo is the only city in the country where you actually put people who don't have a place to sleep at night on the street – the only city. Then I say, if you're going to criticize someone for the poverty effort, you have to be a little humble yourself. We have a long way to go, but we're going to get to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2412	I'm very proud of the efforts we've made in the justice sector, but I'm far from satisfied. We have added funds to the police and to criminal services, and we're looking at the organization. And we're training more and more policemen. It's actually a record recording. But what's important is that we can see the whole thing. We cannot allow ourselves to be one-sided to more secure. The representative Ellings says the police don't fix it in Oslo. I almost have to ask, was the representative gone last month? I can mention something: the B thread is out of game. Ten are targeted in a major human trafficking case with prostitutes from Bulgaria. 20 pieces are targeted in one of the greatest drug operations in Rome. This is precisely the result of increased resources being given to the police, while organising the work in a smarter way. Atonement cows must be removed. It weakens people's sense of justice and trust in the system when convicted ones commit new criminal acts while they wait to come into atoning. That is why we have put in place several temporary measures. And this includes, among other things: built 316 new prison sites in 2006 and 2007. In addition, there will be 251 new prisons. This is a significant increase and an improvement. And then comes changing forms of reconciliation, for example. increased use of community sanctions. We therefore have good reason to stand by the ambition that the housing queue will be gone in 2009. As a temporary measure, we have continued forward release. It was introduced by the Bondevik II government, and we've passed it on. This causes the dot fields to escape a few days before they were meant to do so. There is no significant reduction in the judgment. Nevertheless, we have said quite clearly that this should go away when the queue is removed. Finally, I want to tell the representative, Aspaker, that you have to stop saying that the government has been robbed of the fund for the search for death at sea, because there is no fund for it. You know this very well. Every year there is a fixed sum, and the Minister of Justice has guaranteed that it will not be on funds when we are looking for the dead. Of course, the state has to pay what it will cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2427	The President would like to remind the representative that all speeches are going through the President. Jan Tore Sanner has spoken twice in the past and gets the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2432	It is certainly naive to present it so that the maximum price in kindergartens is a gift package for the poor. It's a gift package for the rich. We know that in a very large number of municipalities you have income-graded nursery prices, and with the right arrangement, the nursery price will be 120 kroner lower than it was in 2005. What we're doing is we're putting more emphasis on the quality of kindergartens. We focus more on equal treatment between municipal and private kindergartens. It will make sure that we also have the kindergarten areas that are missing. But finally, I am a little surprised that the Minister of Finance chooses not to take the floor when I have challenged her on how she perceives the clear description of the Council of Trade Unions in Rusfeld when they say that with the new government, the addicts have been moved from a place at the table to a place below the table. This is the description of the Board of Directors within the Rusfeld. The right has put forward concrete proposals to strengthen the Ruf region, while the Government has made historically poor budgets. How does the Minister of Finance perceive the description provided by the Council of Trade Unions in the Rusfield?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2439	It surprises me that the representative Heikki Holmås chooses to be so high on the track when a minority who have only arguments to use points out that we are in a situation where the arrogance of power gives itself quite a lot of expression in the political debate and in the working conditions of the Stortinge for the time being. We simply ask for counter-arguments when we promote arguments in settings. We should be entitled to that. We dare hope and believe that matters will arrive so early in Stortinget that it is possible to get the open, thorough treatment in the landfill that democracy requires. It should be possible to grant some concessions. I have also used this debate to call for – and I am willing to back the first two years – that the last two years of the big period must be about the government's policy and how they will deal with the tasks ahead, and not what seems to be the foremost glue still in the red-green government, namely to be in opposition to the previous government. I expect to have state councils that are state councils for the whole nation and not occupy their old opposition roles. So it's my view that we've seen a government these first two years that not only partially fulfills its promises, but that cancels them and in many areas barely has eye contact with what they promised their voters. Poverty has been at the heart of this debate. The Minister of Finance and the head of the SV themselves have cancelled the promise over many gaps in the newspapers, which they will not keep, they cannot keep. The most precise promise was made to the voters, namely children's playground for everyone before the end of 2007, otherwise she would leave, we have now been informed that we will not be held. We have been clearly informed in this communication that what was perhaps one of the most decisive points for a government change two years ago, that is, a completely new, and political, industrial power regime, we do not get. Another example, which the Central Party parliamentary leader had to comment on, concerns the Kårstø promise of clean-up in 2009, which is now currently suspended until 2012, due to technology. I remind you that cleaning technology of this kind has gradually become a commodity, you can go to Japan and go to the Mitsubishi company, you get what you want. Two years is a long time. However, I am willing to accept it as a necessary lesson for the Government. Now I hope we can get two operational years ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2453	I have asked a direct question about the Council's perception of how we are betting on combating drug problems. I am not familiar with the statement they may have made. I find it hard to understand that the previous government should have invited them closer to the table than this government has, because we have actually increased efforts to combat drug problems. But I recognize that this is a challenge, for us, for the rest of the Storing. There are often many and complex problems that people face, they are youth problems, they can also be good adults. But especially for young people, we know that if we get in early, we can change a person's life and prevent a long run as a drug addict. So this is one thing that we have to work on. So in the case of Sponheim's repeated claims: I haven't abolished the Government's goal of eliminating poverty. I have repeated it in the article that it refers to all the way. I could not agree to abolish it as a goal, because it is well thought that we should have it as a very demanding goal that we should work to achieve. The unemployment ratio helps us a little bit on the way, but we're working on this in terms of getting universal, good arrangements, fruit and greens that cost nothing. We know that there are the three kids in a class that apply when it costs something to be on a fruit and green scheme, with the parents who have the worst advice, and who at least put up – we know it's them, ask any teacher. They can tell the exact same thing. So we're not going to abolish it, we're going to work for it, universal schemes, better tax systems, targeted measures against poverty, real labour market policies to achieve it. We're going to do that, and it's no art to beat the previous government in terms of efforts in this area. We can do more than they did in four years in two years, but we don't have the ambition level of the previous government in this area as our scale. We have as a yardstick that we should eliminate poverty. That's why we have something to go after. So in the case of the kindergarten bet, yes, I have to say I'm very upset. So it's not a private, dictated child's hail which I've given. This is what the whole Storting agreed to be done. The whole Stortinget agreed that we would have full coverage by 2007. But if that's how to understand that the Left and the Right feel that there was nothing special, and they didn't intend to do it, it was just we who were going to do it, well, well, then baby parents get to hear it. The right-hand side uses the opportunity to increase the rate by $300 per cent. and say it doesn't hit the poorest. Of course, the 7,000 children who then disappear from kindergarten have the worst - affording parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2462	Thoughtfulness is always good. I understood before the previous elections that it was during this parliamentary term that poverty was to be abolished, but that one is sober and realistic and says that it is complex and difficult, I have a deep understanding of that, even on the basis of his own work in the field. I wonder that we have a government that has actually managed to put people in institutions in the skewer that they don't get the education they're going to have. I've taken that up a lot of times from this pulpit, and it's hardly about political will, but it's about someone being able to cut through across difficult layers of bureaucracy so that people who need a warm hand will get it. It has to be solvable, it's not about future promises, it's about seeing people. So, since the representative Heikki Holmås thought that I was just talking political power and energy in messages: No, I'm talking in action, and I'm sitting in a trade committee where you've almost dispelled ambitions about school, blowing ambitions about higher education and research. I accept that SV in the government has done a brutal priority and said that it is kindergarten. I think it's a straightforward matter, but I'm sitting in a committee where the council has about as its main energy to concentrate on this. It's respectful, but in the other areas, the ambitions are taken down, so it sucks. And if I'm going to measure it against high-flying election vows from a political party that's been used to counting to 250 to avoid internal problems, I can see it from a political party where we've had to count to three – because we know that the realities of life are pretty tough, we think it's nice that someone learns to count to three. But then you should also tell about the downhills that you actually give people. The president's out with me, because I only have one minute's speaking time, as far as I know, so I'll finish.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2471	Odd Einar Dørum has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2474	Well, that was a happy surprise! Then I keep going, since I've gotten in the mood. The point is that here you've gone out and promised to people with higher education, to people who believe in research, which is the future, and who carry our society, and then you get a government council that gives us a break, and a revised national budget where the rest cutting becomes a new rest cutting, and then you're fast on the way to a false cutting. And the only thing you can do about this is when the Prime Minister is challenged here in the Chamber, he finally starts talking about the quality of research. And then you've gone out of your mind about all the arguments that exist. Then someone's going back to the capital. Yes, it's fine, Heikki Holmås, we can take a walk in the city. We can take a walk in a city where it has actually been possible to increase social assistance rates, where it has been possible to clean up small-scale management of social assistance, because one understands that one should have proper social arrangements for those who are struggling the most, and because it has been the will to do so. There has also been a willingness to invest in school, to rehabilitate construction, and to spend the crowns on the most important common actions for most people. It may be fun hiking, it may be exciting hiking, so I would like to meet the representative Heikki Holmås both on hiking and in duels before it becomes a choice for the autumn. It can be a fascinating experience for both of us – most exciting for me, but I hope that I will get out of it well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2483	The president can promise she won't be out of speaking time right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2486	It is, of course, all honesty when describing the government's policy in presenting this revised state budget, so that the only thing that happens on the education front is kindergartens. Now I do not believe that it is possible to talk about ‘the only thing’ when it comes to full child care. International research shows that the investments we make in the youngest children are some of the most profitable, not just in dollars, but in how a young person is encouraged and can learn for the rest of his life. So kindergarten bet is knowledge bet. In this revision, we promote proposals on fruit and vegetables in high school, better counselling services, trials with all day school. We've done a setup for free textbooks in high school. We're increasing research. A little honesty could cost you. In addition, there is a marked improvement in the local economy, which means that, for example: Oslo Municipality has received NOK 1.9 billion more to travel with after we took over. It's gotten a little more liberal for them, to say it carefully. So just a little visit to Lars Sponheim, who called for my participation in a TV debate, and thought that it was an important political point to get from the Stortinge pulpit. When the TV debate started, I was in the main hall because we had the Staten pension fund for discussion. As Sponheim is fully aware, Stortinget and the consideration of Stortinget go ahead of everything else. Such respect should be enjoyed by any State Council for the National Assembly of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2500	Lars Sponheim has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2503	Two years it took Kristin Halvorsen in government to become as arrogant as the Workers' Party at its worst. I pointed out some things that are undisputed, such as that the Government does not argue in this setting against arguments from the opposition. I pointed to the fact that here we get important political debates after the Great Government has split up, because the Government can't get through to the Chamber. And I pointed out that at the end of this big session, before we go to a election, we're in a situation where we don't get to a party leader debate on TV. It has been notified for many weeks, and all the party leaders in the government have said they could not attend. I accept that the finance minister couldn't be there, but they could at least have sent the other party leaders in the government, and maybe a vice-leader. This deserves Norwegian democracy in the public space sometimes. So short: the left is at the child's hail lift that we gave, but that promise also meant that we should have full child's gardening first, before prices are lowered. Kristin Halvorsen asserted her personal integrity that if there was not full child care coverage in 2007, she would resign as Minister of Finance. We'll wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2514	Odd Einar Dørum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, now it's 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2520	The fairness of the research policy is measured against the research notification, against the SV's election promises and against the concrete promises that have not been practically made in Stortinget. The Minister of Finance's comment on this can be measured against what an overall Research Norway believes, whether they are trade-organised, jobs in the professional sector, are students, in the NHO, or whatever it may be. I note that it is a brutal depression. When this government had 16 billion dollars at its disposal, it dripped so far into research. Then you had to cut into higher education. And then when you came to review, you didn't do anything to fix this cut. I think it's honest to prioritize – I think it's very honest to prioritize. I don't think it's right to expound. In fact, the left and the SV pick different ones here. We have provided a budget where we ensure higher education and research, and that is the brutal difference between Left and SV in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2527	I agree with the speakers who have said that it has taken a surprisingly short time for statesmen and party leaders in a majority government to establish a power arrogance and a language that makes the Storting really feel a little redundant. The Council of State and the party leader accuse political opponents – in this context not from my party, but others – of political dishonesty because they actually point out that the Government does not keep promises, or interpret promises in a way that makes it – to quote the Council of State itself – something to stretch in time and far beyond this period. The promise to eradicate poverty was given for a limited period — this government’s four-year period. The Prime Minister himself has been out saying that it is not possible, and now the Minister of Finance uses the expression that it is something to go after. So it's not a promise that can be kept in this period, to put it simply. In this debate, we have focused on the Prime Minister's commitment to pensioners, given outside the storeroom, where he says that removing the curtailment between 67 and 70 years is an excellent proposal, and the Government will do so as soon as possible. In political language, this means that when the Stortinge has decided something, the Stortinge may change it in the meeting where the budget is being discussed, including the following: at this meeting. It is possible, but the Prime Minister, the Government Parties and the Government will not. There is also no promise that it can be done during the period. I think this kind of political practice has one effect, which can be read in today's Oslo newspapers, for example.People's confidence in political promises is quite, quite thin, and this debate has once again underlined that words are not in keeping.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2539	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 to 4. [[See pages 3779 and 3824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2555	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2571	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2589	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2607	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3825]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2625	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3825]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2638	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2646	During the debate, Hans Olav Syversen has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e2685	During the debate, 105 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-11, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 12 and 13, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 14–16, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Progressive Democrats, Right, and the Left. 17-21, by Ulf Leirstein, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing Proposals No. 22 and 23, from Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Christian People's Party proposal No. 24, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left-wing proposal No. 25–34, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 35-53 and 105, by Mrs Leirstein, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 54, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 55 to 58, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right and the Left, no. 59 to 66, except 63, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 67-78, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left-wing proposal No. 79-91, by Hans Olav Syversen, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, no. 92-102, by Lars Sponheim, on behalf of the Left-wing Draft No. 103 and 106, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 104, from Reidar Sandal on behalf of the Financial Committee The President noted that proposal No. 106, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, some corrections have been made in relation to the distributed version. In the vote we are about to take, the President first takes the minority proposals and then the vote's motion for a resolution. We start with the suggestions from the smallest fraction. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 92 to 102, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e4432	The proposals are then put to the vote. 79-91, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e5497	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 67-78, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e5657	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 59 to 62 and 64 to 66, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e7426	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 55 to 58, from the right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e7822	There is a vote on proposal No. 54, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2007 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCroner320General cultural purposes74Contributions to actions under the Norwegian Cultural Council, may be transferred, increased by 500 000 from NOK 128 072 000 to NOK 128 572 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e7879	The President was not allowed to press the button. I should have voted against it. Then the result is that 21 voted in favour and 81 voted against the proposal of the Right and Christian People’s Party – and therefore the proposal has been rejected. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 35–53, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e8902	There is a vote on proposal No. 105, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to implement the so-called Municipal Initiative in the context of the protection of Trillemarka and to submit a case on its financing at the latest in the National Budget for 2008.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e8917	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 25–34, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e9058	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Advancement Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government in the context of the 2008 State Budget to submit proposals for a grant scheme to ensure wage subsidies for dental practitioners taking specialist training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e9074	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22 and 23, from the Party of Advancement, and from the Party of Christian Peoples.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e9098	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17-21, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e9178	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14–16, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e9273	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2007 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCrones726Habilitation, rehabilitation and measures for drug addicts21Special operating expenditure, can be used under heading 70, reduced by 500 000 from DKK 19 250000 to DKK 18 750 000»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e9335	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-11, Nos. 103 and No 106, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e9422	We have now voted against all the minority proposals, and there remains one proposal in addition to the vote on the motion for a resolution. That is proposal No. 104 from the Financial Committee, and that's what the President will come back to. Now, when we are going to vote on the motion for a resolution of the sitting, the parties, in line with the practice of dealing with the revised national budget, are prepared to abstain from the vote they would normally vote on the final vote. This is to drop a time-consuming and sometimes complicated voting process where the result is still given. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against any party on a later occasion. Shooting will be the one who does it! [[Laughter]] Before we vote on the motion for a resolution, the President will refer to proposal No. 104, from the Financial Committee. The background to this proposal is the necessary adjustments resulting from decisions taken by the Stortinget on the current budget following the decision of the Financial Committee and which have therefore not been taken into account in the relevant chapters and items of the present proposal for a decision. The proposal reads as follows: Chapter.PostFormsCrones’1720Joint management and command apparatus:1Operating expenditure, reduced by 86 906 000from NOK 2 117 479 000 to NOK 2 030 573 000 Cape TownSubjectCroner1725Joint institutions and expenditure under the Defence Staff:1Operating expenditure, increased by 3,705 000 from NOK 2 060 744 000 to NOK 2 064 449 000 Chassis. ItemObjectivesCroner1731Duration:1Operating expenditure, reduced by 40 796 000from NOK 3788 500000 to NOK 3747 704 000 Cape TownSubjectCroner1732Marine defence:1Operating expenditure, reduced by 31 879 000from NOK 2 694 756 000 to NOK 2 662 877 000 Chassis. ItemSubjectCroner1733Air defence:1Operating expenditure, reduced by 37 132 000from NOK 3 393 277 000 to NOK 3 356 145 000 The State budget for 2007 is amended as follows: Chassis. ItemSubjectCroner1734Home protection:1Operating expenditure, reduced by 12,942 000from NOK 1 066 183 000 to NOK 1 053 241 000 Chapter.PostFormsCroner1740 Defence Logistics Organisation:1Operating expenditure, increased by 129 296 000 from NOK 2 480 153 000 to NOK 2 609 449 000 Chapter.PostDestinationCroner1790Coastal watch:1Operating costs, increased by 7,694 000 from NOK 817,033 000 to NOK 824,727 000 ’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e18509	So this is about the whole proposal for a decision in the vote. The President noted that the chapters and items adopted in proposal No. 104, the proposal for a decision is now obsolete.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e18541	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Draft No. 2 and 3, from Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement Proposals Nos. 2 and 3 are added to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e18574	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, says: ‘Document No. 8:52 [[IPS]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e18630	There will be a vote on proposals by the representative of the great-grandfather Hans Olav Syversen, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left, sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 12 June 2007: «The government asks the Government to propose the amendment of Section 11 of the Property Tax Act so that municipalities have to provide for a minimum deduction for autonomous dwellings in all municipalities that print out property taxes.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e18649	There will be a vote on proposals by the representative of the great-grandfather Hans Olav Syversen, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left, sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 12 June 2007: «The decision asks the Government to propose the amendment of Section 28 of the Property Tax Act in order to enable municipalities to lay down general rules on depreciation or full exemption from property tax on grounds of special social considerations.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e18668	There will be a vote on proposals by the representative of the great-grandfather Hans Olav Syversen, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left, sent from the meeting of the Odelsting on 12 June 2007: ‘The government asks the Government to assess how increased access for municipalities to differentiate the output of property taxes between different property categories such as housing, leisure property, power plants and other commercial property can be carried out, and to inform the Storting accordingly appropriately.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-15.ana.ud714e18691	There is no record.
