ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e79	The representative, Lena Jensen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e100	The aim of this interpellation is to shed light on how we in Norway can increase trade and interaction with Russia and its citizens at all levels. First, a little bit of history: the conversion in the churches after the closure of AS Sydvaranger was tough, and if it wasn't for some of the border barriers on the border with Russia in the same period of time to be gone, the conversion in the Kirkenes and Kirkenes area would be even harder. For example, the Kirkenes area today, as a community, has shops and sales chains for a population of approx. 16,000 people, while in reality there is no more than about 16,000 people. Nine hundred there. In other words, trade with Russia has meant a lot for the settlement in the area and for people on both sides of the border, for those who travel across the Great Forest to act, and not least related to the Russian rays lying in the Churches. There are also reports suggesting that if border crossings/visa arrangements were simpler, much more Russians would want to visit Norway than today, which would in turn increase trade and strengthen South Varang's position as a bridgehead towards Russia. Today is 7-8 pst. by the inhabitants of the South Varanger of Russian origin. The number of Russian origins has also increased considerably in the rest of Finnland. It is therefore important to put in place a regulatory framework that takes account of the fact that there will be an increase in social and trade relations. It becomes a little pointless when the legislation today prevents a Russian mother from nurturing her own seriously ill daughter in Churchnes, who has Norwegian citizenship, while Norway is betting millions on people for folk-cooperation, and while Mulla Krekar is going on the street as a free man. Russia is a changing country with an ever stronger private and public economy. In addition, there are many other societal changes in the north that call for a growing need for cohesion and trade: the importance of the northern regions in a national, economic and ecological perspective, our fishing interests and our maritime interests, an increasing international focus, Norwegian sovereignty in the north, unexplained border agreements, foreign policy, security policy, various types of preparedness, the Arctic dimension, marine bioprospection in the north and not least that everyone is aware of the enormous values there, related to oil, gas and fisheries resources. I believe it is high time to focus on how we can reduce border barriers and make border crossings more flexible than it is today, in such a way that Norway unilaterally reduces self-imposed restrictions. It's in many ways where the shoe prints, because historically there's been a reciprocity in our agreements with Russia. It should be possible for most people to understand that it is easier to build this one-sided down with a population of 4.5 million people than it might be with a population of 145 million, which is the case in Russia. But it is a challenge that, in the context of most of the problems we face that will simplify border crossings, there are many actors and many departments involved. I live and live in this area, and everyone should be aware that over the years I have received an incredible number of complaints about the system that Norway is preaching today. There are many Russians who are very dissatisfied. Therefore, I believe that the overall objective now needs to be what we can do on the Norwegian side in order to contribute constructively to adapting border crossing and visa regimes through greater flexibility and less bureaucracy. This will not compromise stability and predictability in the north. On the contrary, this will be an important initiative to improve relations between Norway and Russia. When we like to call ourselves a Western democratic society, we should perhaps put some resources into this, so that as a nation we can appear simple and unbureaucratic towards Russians, and that in practice we emphasize the importance of people to the people-cooperation. Practical things that can be done: You can upgrade the road from Storskog to Kirkenes. We can build capacity on exit and entry, so that the time factor you use on a border crossing becomes predictable. You can get more lanes and parking spaces. Electronic passage of commuters and drivers who cross frequently can be carried out. You can remove the black windows with a one-way view, which gives the impression that you arrive at an interrogation room and not an open society. You can place signs that actually want Russians to welcome in Storskog, and you can run information that enables the Russians crossing the border to understand that they are actually welcome to Norway. Furthermore, Norway has a number of unnecessary and self-imposed restrictions on the issue of visas to Russian citizens. This, together with an unsustainable length of treatment and sometimes poor service to visa applicants at the Murmansk Consulate-General, allows Norway to be perceived as a small, friendly country that does not want to trade and social relations. Norway may remove self-imposed restrictions on the issue of visas without conflicting with the Schengen acquis. In addition, Norway should adopt a much more offensive approach to visa facilitation between Schengen and Russia. We can reduce the processing time for visa applications from today's self-imposed two weeks to three to five days. We can reduce the waiting time for multi-visa from four to six weeks to 14 days. The Consulate-General in Murmansk should understand that the applicants for a visa are law-abiding, normal travellers. We can change self-imposed rules on the exact date of departure and entry by introducing a flexibility of a few days. The delay in air traffic is enough today to put someone to cross the border, in a very difficult squeeze. We can remove the invitation requirement. If the visa seeker has insurance, financial resources and clean leaflets, the person must and should be able to obtain a visa to Norway. We can allow Russians as individuals or as a group to obtain an entry visa to Norwegian airports. We can eliminate visa fees for larger groups. This will strengthen Norwegian infrastructure. We can also set up a UDI office in Kirkenes, which has the task of cooperating with regional actors and the Consulate General in Murmansk. It would therefore be desirable to facilitate these restrictions. It would also be desirable to set up Russian companies in Norway and stimulate action to this end, and further facilitate the establishment of Norwegian companies in Russia, so that Norway actually has a higher level of ambition than we have had at present. One of the things that should be obvious in this way is to review the statutes of the investment fund for North-West Russia, so that the fund becomes a driving force for the establishment of different types of industry in the area – on both sides of the border. Therefore, the management of the fund should be moved from Oslo to Kirkenes, so that the ringing effects of the fund happen where it actually belongs naturally. It must also, as I see it, come up with a complete review of the functioning of the customs and taxation system for most people and business at border crossings, and then so that the legislation here also facilitates increased trade and interaction, and that it is not, as many people today experience, directly obstructing increased trade and relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e130	I would first like to thank the representative, Fredriksen, for addressing this important issue. I would also like to thank him for having many exciting thoughts and ideas about border crossing completely into the practical level. I have noticed them, and I will follow them up beyond the answer post I am now giving. One of the main points of the Northern Region Strategy is measures to increase cooperation with Russia and, as the strategy states, ‘to make it as simple and free of charge as possible to strengthen relations with Russia at all levels’. The government has announced several measures to contribute to this. In this interpellation, I will explain some of the things that have been done since we launched the North Region Strategy in Tromsø on 1 December 2006 and what we intend to do in the future. Let me first say that I agree that increased trade between Norway and Russia in the north will have a major impact on the population in the north and in the border area – for the whole North Region initiative and our relationship with Russia. And as I said earlier, this is also part of our European policy. The economic development we have witnessed in Russia in recent years offers great opportunities for North Norwegian business – opportunities that many have already seen and used, but there is still much that can be done. Nevertheless, we now see a broader commitment from several parts of the business community, and that is something we want to welcome and want more of. Energy is important, and possible fields in the Barents Sea are important, but our ambitions must go deeper and wider. So to the concrete questions about border crossings over our only crossing point with Russia, Storskog. Here I'm busy seeing more things in the context. We all agree on the objective: there should be as few obstacles as possible to cross-border traffic. As we all know, over the past 15-20 years, there has been an explosive increase in traffic across this border. Prior to the dissolution of the Soviet Union, there were a number of border crossings of only a few to three thousand a year, while traffic increased to over 80 000 border crossings both roads in 1992, further increase to 131 000 in 1999, and the number was 106 000 in 2006 — about the same as in 2005. The increase has given rise to major challenges for all Norwegian agencies involved; the EEAS, the police, customs, foreign agencies and others. The Norwegian authorities are the easiest to do with these measures to facilitate the entry of Russian citizens into Norway. We have to look at the whole chain from the visa application submitted to the Consulate General in Murmansk, until the traveler has passed the boom at Storskog, on which the representative Fredriksen was also in. One measure already taken is that the processing time for visa applications to Norway at the Consulate General from 1 February has been reduced to half: from 10 to 5 working days. We have managed to do this even though the labour pressure is high because of the high traffic, and even if new visa treatment procedures are in place. This measure is a significant improvement. I would like to give tribute from this pulpit to those who work at the Consulate General for the efforts they are making in this regard. The new visa agreement negotiated between Norway and Russia will, hopefully, enter into force before the summer. This will simplify the visa procedures for many groups of travelling Norwegians and Russians. It will also provide greater opportunities for multi-travel visas for a longer period, both to Russia and to Norway. The work is also in the process of preparing the conversion of Storskog border station to make it more public friendly. The North Sea Strategy indicates that agreement has been reached with Russia to extend the opening hours at this border station. From our side, we will be ready to take this action in the first six months of this year, so that the station will be open from six in the morning until eleven in the evening. This is a measure that has been put in place, inter alia: at the expressed wish of a business team in Finnmark. One of the questions raised with the authorities is the practices of Storskog when Russian travelers with visas to Norway pass by. It is claimed that these meet more stringent documentation requirements than is usual if they fly to Norway or cross the border from Russia to Finland. I have raised this matter with the foreign authorities, who, in cooperation with the police, will look into the matter in order to achieve as smooth procedures as possible. I can promise that I will follow up on what these authorities are now doing. At the same time, we will focus on respecting the obligations we have, since this is the external border of the Schengen area. In this way, I think it is an interesting but demanding discussion, with too many unilateral Norwegian measures in what is a responsibility Norway has in relation to other countries. However, I believe that through some concrete measures – some of which have already been mentioned – we will make the border crossing more flexible. It shall not be more difficult for a Russian traveller to meet Norwegian authorities in Storskog than at Gardermoen. Measures such as shorter processing time, new visa agreement, extended opening time, conversion of the border station – yes, among others. removing the black squares – and smoother border crossing will make it easier and less time-consuming, especially for those who cross the border often. The meeting with Norway shall be characterised by attendance and hospitality. And then we'll see if we can also set up a sign that says the same thing. The interpellant also addresses the issue of work permits in Norway. I guess he has Russian workers in mind. This is a question that has often also been raised by industry, in view of the high labour shortage in many parts of the country. There are several issues here which affect the responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. Firstly, are the schemes already in existence fully used? And secondly, are there restrictions in laws and regulations that we can and should do something about? There are arrangements where skilled jobseekers outside the EEA can actually apply for a so-called jobseeker visa – travel to Norway, apply for a job here and then apply for a work permit while in Norway, if they get a job. Employers are not required to prove that there is no Norwegian labour force to recover before they can hire the foreign applicant. This scheme, which, of course, also applies to Russian applicants, has been used poorly. A job can be done both from the government side and from business organisations to make the scheme better known. I am open to dialogue with business on these issues, reviewing the needs of business, the obstacles they face, and what can be done to make better use of existing schemes. The North Sea Strategy states that cross-border business cooperation in the north is a priority field. By focusing on knowledge, innovation and business development, the Government will facilitate increased economic trade between Norway and Russia. In addition to the concrete and practical measures I have mentioned, the Government has taken some action in the field of industrial policy to promote cooperation. Let me mention the following: In order to strengthen Norwegian investment in Russia, the Government, through Innovation Norway, steps up the business towards North-West Russia. This is done by the regional office in Vadsø, the newly established office in Kirkenes and by representation at the Consulate General in Murmansk since August 2006. SIVA is working on setting up innovation centres in Murmansk and Arkhangelsk, to promote economic trade and the ability of Norwegian business to position themselves in the region. These are valuable contributions to strengthen economic links between countries. The budget for this year is set at 5 million. kr for the further development of SIVA’s involvement in North-West Russia. As part of the effort to increase Norwegian-Russian industrial cooperation as a driver for the development of the northern regions, the Government has proposed to propose the creation of an economic and industrial cooperation zone in the border regions. The Northern Region Strategy explains that the Government is working on a proposal for such a zone, with a view to presenting it to the Russian authorities during the spring. We are doing this well, and a proposal will be made in a short time. The idea of close country-based cooperation between Norway and Russia to promote economic interaction on both sides of the border, especially to serve future petroleum activities in the Barents Sea, is good. Although it is too early to address details about this, I would like to stress that the principles of such a zone are to be based on Norwegian legislation on Norwegian territory and Russian legislation on the Russian side. Interpellant mentions that there are challenges related to Russian business start-ups in Norway. It is true that, until now, Russian establishments and investments have had a limited amount here. On the other hand, Norwegian-Russian business contacts have increased significantly, and Innovation Norway’s foreign offices often receive enquiries from Russian companies seeking information and assistance. Often this applies to Russian companies that will apply for project support from the Norwegian instrumentation in Russia. I believe that increased communication, closer cooperation and networking between Norwegian and Russian business actors will provide a basis for increased Norwegian-Russian business cooperation in border regions. Then we have the process of Russian membership in the WTO. This is a long and difficult process, but progress has been made here. A bilateral protocol was concluded with the United States last November and with Norway as early as 2005. Still a lot of work remains, but I think that once the process is completed, there will be an important step towards strengthening trade and economic relations between Norway and Russia. The conclusion of a free trade agreement between EFTA and Russia is another measure that could strengthen trade. As soon as Russia becomes a member of the WTO, the negotiation of such an agreement will be a high priority from our side. Let me finally say a few words about the road link. A lot has happened here in the last year, especially on the Russian side. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs allocated funds in 2006 for the continued development of the Nikel-Prirechnyj road. This is a safe bypass for the main link between Storskog and Murmansk over Petsjenga, which sometimes has to be closed in storms, and where there are also some military restrictions. Means have also been allocated to road safety measures on the Russian side. The new bridge over the Kolafjord in Murmansk town, which the Russians opened for traffic last year and which is fully funded by the Russians themselves, provides shorter and better access to Murmansk for traffic from Norway. This has helped to improve the accessibility and safety of traffic between our countries. There is also a desire for improvements both on the E6 and on the E105 on the Norwegian side of the border. This is assessed by the Ministry of Transport in the context of the National Transport Plan Map Communication 2010–2019. From our point of view, the leadership of the North Sea Strategy will be an important part of the work of the National Transport Plan. The expected treatment of this Communication by the Storting in spring 2009 will give the final priorities. I hope this article has shown that the Government is working to strengthen cooperation in the north in earnest. Much is done, much is still done, and the interpellant has made a lot of useful input in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e172	Thank you very much to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. There were many interesting things and details that came out. What I think it was skipped a little bit, is whether we're going to continue the tradition we've had related to invitation. I think it's high time we started treating Russians like a neighbor. Is it necessary in the future to have requirements other than that a person has financial resources and clean leaflets in order to obtain a visa? Do you also have to go with an invitation bit? Because it's self-imposed. Whether a pomor zone is created in the future, as it is called, or not, most of the elements that I have described as problematic regarding border crossing will be there whether you get this zone or not. It is also the case that Russia as such, related to the road, has invested incredibly much more than we have, although Norway has also contributed here on the Russian side. But what I first took for granted was what we could do on the Norwegian side related to the road, because Norway has been an important donor and has provided assistance for Russian road projects, is absolutely true. We have been. I would also like to highlight what I feel is important; just that Norway stands for a unilateral decline. If we're going to continue the tradition we've had and say that we can't build down now on the Norwegian side until you might have done the same thing in Russia, I think this will be a very long way to go. The only way we can go ahead and be a good example as a Western democratic country is to take an initiative in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e183	Let me first just repeat that the representative Fredriksen in his post brought up a wide range of issues that I think were valuable. When I get the written draft of the submissions, I want to go through all the points and see the status of it. I think my post covered a lot, but I want to see if there were things it was not covered, and then I would like to get back to the representative with their status. I appreciate that this in the hall is such a detailed focus on these arrangements, because this means a lot to both individuals and businesses. I fully agree with what the representative stresses; that Russians are treated like a common people; and that is what Norway will stand for; that is what we want to show over time. The representative mentioned this with stability and predictability. That's exactly what we want to be characteristic. He's right in that zone or not, there are challenges in crossing these boundaries, so we have to focus on it. I'm about to get across this line as easily as possible. This is not the case in Norway today – I say today – that we use border crossings as a regulatory mechanism to create a sufficiently high threshold because we do not want more interaction. At the same time, I would nevertheless urge a certain reflection around this with unilateral degradation. It's true, as the representative says, that because we have a country of our size and close contacts, we have easier to take action quickly, and that on the Russian side it's more demanding. Now, if we get rid of the sooty routes -- at least some of them -- it's an important signal. Making it more pleasant to cross the border is an important signal. But I have to say that it is not always a party to travel the other way – to say it carefully – and it is important to engage the Russians in as much reciprocity as possible. We who are standing at the border station the other way around, see that there are also changes on the Russian side – actually – but I think it's part of the reciprocity we have between Norway and Russia that has a verdict there. I would also like to stress that I believe it is important for Norway's reputation in Europe and as a Schengen member that we deal with this borderline relationship with Russia in a very real, predictable and rule-based way. But we can also be an example by showing that we are making relief because we believe that the basis is now laid for making relief. Because we are about the only country – we and Finland – that has the kind of border with Russia, it is important that we show this as part of the northern dimension, and among others. is in close contact with Finland. In my meeting with border representatives in Kirkenes at the beginning of January, I was assured that some of the sooty glasses would be removed. At the same time, it was also argued that there was a political justification for actually having opportunities to look at people on the other side. I am committed to finding the right balance, so that we can also assure people on the Norwegian side that this is happening in a regulated and proper way. But as I said, the painting should be that it is as simple as possible and as predictable as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e196	The potential for cooperation with our largest neighbouring country is high, and it needs to be exploited to a much greater extent than today. This applies to countries in general, but of course it is particularly true where we have a common border. There can be an activity that is in turn conducive to development, creating jobs and better well-being on both sides of the border. From an old age, there's a saying that friendship makes sense. I think that it's important to get integration, and that one in that way contributed to relaxation. I believe that when people are mutually dependent on each other, they have much easier to solve common problems than if they were sitting on each other's side and possibly looking over a high fence, as it was not many years ago. In my view, it must be a goal that the activity across our borders in the northeast of our biggest neighbour is as easy as the activity across the borders of our other neighbours, such as Sweden, Finland and Denmark. Today this can seem totally unrealistic, but if we look at Europe's history for the last 15 years, there has actually been a lot of unrealistic happening there. Who would have believed that the Iron Curtain that passed through Europe would be replaced by integration? Where there was a previously hermetically closed limit, there is now no limit to the whole. Who had believed that the former Warsaw countries would be fully integrated into the EU and NATO members? On a general basis, I would like to say that it is important now that we avoid building a new border and that Europe is again divided – this time further east. Therefore, we must work for the greatest possible openness and reduce obstacles between the EU/EEA and the countries east of us. Russia and Ukraine need to be able to be integrated into Europe and not face unnecessary obstacles. Historically, it has our close ties across the Norwegian-Russian borders. Pomor trafficking was important for both countries and contributed to development. Now we have another opportunity to exploit the potential for greater interaction in this area. Therefore, we must jointly contribute to the fact that what was a closed border during Soviet times becomes a parentheses in history. The goal must be to make the obstacles as few as possible and to contribute to normal cooperation in as many areas as possible. It is positive that this challenge is now being refocused on. If this is what the interpellant claims, there are many national boundaries, I think we have to have the ambition to remove them. As I experience the Foreign Minister, he is also positive to this approach angle. If it is such that we have practical changes, e.g.: of border stations or other things can help to integrate the people on the two sides of the border better, it must be done as quickly as possible. Still, I think we have to be honest that it's not just Norway alone to solve these problems. We are a member of Schengen, and I think that might affect our space for action. I could imagine asking the Foreign Minister how much room we actually have for action. What kind of independent policy can we have? Is it e.g. so that we can make exceptions when it comes to the rules on fees relating to Schengen visas, or in other ways make it cheaper and easier for Russians to visit Norway? But it is also my clear impression that there are challenges on the Russian side. I have had conversations with Norwegian business leaders operating in Russia on various occasions, and they show that there is a good deal of problem. I believe it is important that we in Norway use political discussions with Russian colleagues to address such matters. In such a context, it may also be possible to bring up a dialogue that allows one to reduce various obstacles together. Finally, Russia is an increasingly important market because of its economy. But also the Russian population is getting richer, and not least as tourists they will travel more. It is important that Norway becomes a positive and good tourist destination for Russians who want to come here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e217	I would also, like the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, stress the political dimension of this, and the historic fact that Russia is now integrated into Europe in a completely different way from what it experienced a few years ago. I also want to pay tribute to the interpellant to address an important question. Even though we're talking about a border station, there's a lot more symbol of something. We are very pleased with the way in which the Minister for Foreign Affairs met this. He points to a number of processes that are going on and a part that he wants to tackle. We are now meeting the results of these processes and looking forward to finding a solution to many of the issues that are currently being addressed as problematic challenges and contributing to increasing flexibility and flexibility. The Schengen and Schengen acquis have been mentioned. The representative Akselsen asked some important questions about the degree of flexibility we have. However, when we sit at the Schengen table with the other Schengen countries, we must also take an active part in the design of the acquis and take into account the concerns and interests we have. This could be done, for example, by: Here just go on fees, on visas and such things. These are questions that have not only been raised in relation to Russia. For example: This is an important issue in relation to both Ukraine and Belarus. Otherwise, I am very pleased that the Foreign Minister pointed to the commercial situation, and that when Russia, hopefully, now quite soon becomes a full member of the WTO, it will take up the issue and pursue a free trade agreement between EFTA and Russia, which I believe will be very favourable and very important for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e228	The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee says that it must be an objective that it should be as easy to cross the Russian border as it is today to cross the border with Sweden and Finland. I think we must all have that as a clear objective. But then he says at the same time that this is not just up to Norway alone. Of course, he's quite right about that, while the Foreign Minister confirms the well-known fact that it's not always as fun or easy to travel the other way. He's obviously right about that. On the other hand, this is a bigger challenge for us than it is for anyone else. I think there is every reason to ask the question in this debate: is it such that other countries are better off in their seas, their interactions, with Russia than Norway is doing, which has the strategic opportunity and the strategic challenges that we actually have when we call about the concept of 'north-area policy'? I believe that in many ways it is a fact that other countries have succeeded better. In the name of reverence, we just have to state that the last few years of evolution have given some setbacks that make us have to ask ourselves the question: why is not communication, the interaction, better than it actually is? It is enough to mention examples of boycott that have hit Norwegian fishing industries and the setback that has affected cooperation in offshore development. We have seen that in the case of clean-up projects – AMEC projects – official officials from Norway have been stopped and sent back again. We have some examples that make us have to ask ourselves complicated questions. And the interpellant has actually done that today. I think that even if the interpellant goes very far in its judgment, there's every reason to stop and ask the question: why do we have the evolution that we have today, with the fact that opening the frontier at a little faster pace than what we're doing? Although we see that the number of Russians who come here with visas is increasing, it is actually primarily in our interest that we succeed better in this area. Russia is, and will become to a greater extent, an economic power, an energy-political power, although today we see that we have a solid welfare gap between Norway on the one hand, as the world's perhaps richest country, and Russia, which has a poverty concept hanging over them in these geographical areas. I believe that the administration – and that is also a sluggish trend towards it in Norwegian policy – still sees this region as a sort of local policy thing. You have to stop that if you're going to get a few steps further. I think the approach we have to these challenges is very good. It does not have much imagination to realize that in a few years' time this region will be Europe's most important site. Then it is that we have to prepare the ground, which both the interpellant and the foreign minister have been in. It is primarily in our interest to succeed. We have a common management of resources. We have some environmental challenges that don't know their counterparts anywhere in the world, in our neighbourhood up here. We have, as the interpellant has been faced with, also some other challenges in the exercise of authority that affect security policy interventions. For this reason, it is important that in its wider approach, we also have a course on what our instruments domestically and externally can contribute. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has mentioned SIVA. I think it is also high time to see if Innovation Norway is not going to get a more active hand on the steering wheel – if not the work done with central Europe, now just to a greater extent needs to be moved northward and westward. Innovation Norway's head office in Praha is now perhaps as well up and going that you can turn a little more towards the north and west. It is therefore important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs continues to have ‘hands on’ in these cases in his positive approach to the interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e241	Opener borders between Storskog and Boris Gleb are about cross-border cooperation and connecting peoples to peoples, cultural cooperation. It is about solving difficult environmental challenges and speeding up development in industry, education and research. A debate on the open border between Norway and Russia is historic for us in SV. The party arose as a protest against an absurd nuclear race and cold war, not least in the north. Now we clean up, now we connect. In border regions, economic development and peoples are interwoven into people-cooperation, culture, environment and security. Therefore, the Government has a broad red-green north-area strategy, not a thinner market-blue approach. SV adopted a 10-year North Norway strategy in 2005, where international cooperation and open border with Russia are important points. This ambition has been followed up both in the Soria Moria Declaration and in the Northern Region Strategy that the Government presented before Christmas. For the last 15 years, a lot has happened. The number of barrier barriers over Storskog and Borisgleb has doubled to over 100000 per. years. Roads have been repaired, and Norway has spent 22 million. kr to build the border station on the Russian side. There are now more than 1,000 people working in Norwegian companies established in Russia. There are 80 enterprises built in 14 different industries. This also goes both ways. Only in the ports of the Church's 300 jobs with the Russian trade. The roads have improved between the churches and Murmansk, but more needs to be done in the short and long term. As the Foreign Minister said, much has been done, and much more will be done. Because it is obvious that something needs to be done, both with the bottleneck barriers and the visa rules, which create difficulties. We get a lot of reactions to the fact that obtaining visas, especially work visas, can be heavy and time consuming, either because of the rules or because of the practice. We are told that Russian professionals and workers needing visas will not be able to deal with their applications quickly enough, or that they will be refused, and that it is too difficult to come to Norway. For example, Nordlys wrote: recently on a Russian inauguration invited to the Arctic Frontiers conference in Tromsø. He was not allowed to come because he had been in Norway for too many days during the last year. Therefore, the work now done is important, and it is good that the new visa agreement is opened for multi-travel visas. The pomor trade can get its reindeer. On the Russian side, there are growing markets and an increasingly economical population, and the northwest will mean more and more for the deployment and introduction of goods into the huge Russian area. The Murman state has more than ten times Finnmark's population. The economy is in strong growth, and parallel to screaming distress, it's also a top class and a middle class looking westward. Needs must be addressed, and it is also part of the red-green North-area policy to contribute to health and social development. Here, there is clearly a market where there are opportunities for much more tourism, including from Russia to Norway. That's a lot of challenges. In particular, SV will focus on environmentally friendly infrastructure, economic cooperation to clean up the environment and focus on renewable energy. In order to increase border trade and economic cohesion, it is important to invest in infrastructure, and then environmentally friendly infrastructure. The government will continue cleaning up work in the Atom Church Garden. Pressure still needs to be put on the Russians to do something about the huge, acidic emissions at Nikel. Finnmark has the greatest potential for wind power throughout Northern Europe, and Hammerfest has built the world's first tidal power plant. At the same time, the power grid in Finnmark is a single big bottleneck. It must then be a goal to build up the network both in the county and towards Kola. The goal must in the long term be to phase out Kola nuclear power plants. So there's a lot of possibilities in the north as well as oil and gas. There is trade between people. That's why people for people-to-people cooperation is a central part of the Northern Region Strategy. The aim must be free flow of artistic and cultural expressions across borders, cooperation between artists and cultural workers and children and young people. Communication and understanding create development on both sides of the border. It creates meeting places and ground for cooperation in other areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e262	Let me start by supporting the inter-pellant in his commitment to concretely put in place Northern Region policy and further develop the border region cooperation between Norway and Russia. I would also like to welcome the constructive approach of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to the interpellation. Interpellence focuses on concrete challenges in border cooperation between the two countries. However, it is important to understand these challenges in the light of the greater political dimension of the meeting of Western Europe with Russia. The major policy concerns have an impact on the co-operation climate and the willingness to find practical solutions that can facilitate the interaction between the peoples of the border regions. A small country such as Norway — with a common border with Russia — has an interest in maintaining a good relationship regardless of the major political climate between Western Europe and Russia. Safety policy assessments have traditionally been of great importance to Norwegian Russian policy. Although we are currently experiencing increasing self-confidence in Russia about their role and opportunities, this nationalisation of Russian policies and governance should not prevent us from looking for concrete, practical solutions to the challenges of border region relations with Russia. It is precisely in this situation that contacts and cooperation need to be built in several areas. Security policy perspectives need to be balanced against the need for people to cooperate with people, economic development, skills building and exchange, good environmental cooperation, improved health and well-being conditions and the organisation of indigenous peoples' contacts and development. I notice that there is an increasing centralisation in Russian politics. The power is brought together with the President in an effort to gain better control and more effective governance. In concrete terms, this means that decision-making powers are transferred from the regions of Kola to Moscow. It means less flexibility and longer time for decisions, perhaps even less responsive to local and regional needs. But also in Norway, we need to consider critically whether our policies and our systems red tape and prevent border regional cooperation. These include the possibility of visas to Norway, the availability of Russians to Norwegian authorities, the provisions of the Schengen Convention on border control, etc. And it's about our willingness to facilitate increased business cooperation. I am familiar with the desire to use Varangerfjorden as a place of transhipment for fish and oil, and that it draws out with answers from the Norwegian authorities. I believe Norway has an interest in finding practical solutions in relation to Russia. If we are to succeed, it will be important to build direct contact with the Russian presidential power in order to create a common understanding of the opportunities and challenges in this region. That dialogue must cover more than just fish, energy and oil. The aim must be to develop broader business cooperation based on the opportunities and needs of the regions. I also see the need for a stronger dialogue with the Russians on climate change and adaptation in the north, a stronger focus on sustainable nature management and pollution reduction, among others. from Nikel. Greater industrial cooperation will require more flexible arrangements for border crossing and increase opportunities for greater cooperation on culture, indigenous peoples, health and well-being. I don't think there is a shortage of financial resources for an exciting development in the Barents region. We need to focus more on the legal framework in order to facilitate contact and make investments predictable, and we need increased political will for practical solutions to further develop the region. We can do that through a constructive dialogue with Russia on a common commitment to this region. To achieve this, we also need to create informed and insightful alliances in the Nordic countries, the EU and the United States. In this respect, I would like to mention the Conference on the Northern Dimension of the European Union which some Norwegian parliamentarians attended in Brussels last week. Clearly, there has been a new impetus in the work on the EU’s northern dimension since the agreement of the EU and the governments of Russia, Norway and Iceland on a joint declaration on further cooperation last November. This new approach is also reflected in increased involvement among parliamentarians. I would like to underline the importance that this contact is also used to develop our dialogue with Russia, and to engage in this dialogue of informed and insightful partners, which we have in the other Nordic countries, which we have through the renewed and strengthened engagement of the EU northwards, and which we also have in Arctic cooperation, where both the United States and Canada are involved in the dialogue. I think it's a lot to pick up by playing also on these parliamentary bodies in cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e279	Let me start by thanking Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, an interpellant, who addresses this important topic. I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who gives a thorough account of the challenges we are facing. Let me also stress that it is important that we give our Russian friends in the north the same treatment when crossing the border that we give to others in other parts of the country. That being said, we must be happy to note that there has been a positive development in the north. In the Soviet era, we had a border crossing of 2,000 to 3,000 people per. year, towards almost 107,000 in 2006. It means that there is a good connection between our two countries. I noticed the Foreign Minister's willingness to strengthen measures to facilitate border crossings in the coming period. It may not be well known that we have a border agreement between Norway and Russia of 1948, with underlying protocols. It still applies. It must be maintained and used with the same cleverness, flexibility and sensitivity as our border inspectors and the border commissioner of the Churches have demonstrated. It is equally valid and binding as our Schengen Agreement, but not as well known. It is good to note that there is still a strong focus on facilitating better interaction between our two countries. A people for people-to-people cooperation and an active district policy in the north are important contributions from the Norwegian side to create trust between actors in the many fields. It is crucial for us and gives us a comparative advantage and a advantage compared to some other actors. We note that in the north we have increased petroleum activity. We have management of common fisheries resources, and we have opportunities to develop land-based activities that will further strengthen the interaction between our two countries. But I think it's important that we take into account that the perspective we're working on is longer than the lifetime of the petroleum season. We have a much bigger perspective that we have to take care of. But if we're going to succeed, we're gonna have to have people in the area. We need people with the right skills. We need to strengthen research and education, and we need to show flexibility and give work permits to more people in the Barents region – and especially in Russia – in order to achieve this. I noticed with interest that we have a university called Arctic University. The idea of a North2north programme has been launched – a cross-border crossing in the east-west region, not just north-south. Maybe we'll find a common arena for people with a common time of darkness. The Minister of Foreign Affairs refers to the economic perspective between Norway and Russia. He mentions innovation centres built in Murmansk and Arkhangelsk. He also mentions increased economic and industrial cooperation in border areas. But let's include the other areas that are also important: fisheries, tourism, culture and arctic agriculture, to mention something. The Foreign Affairs Committee was visiting Russia. We had conversations with both businessmen and the governor in St. Petersburg, who took up the cross-border cooperation and pointed out how important it is. That's why it's time we saw this with a lack of research activity in the Barents Sea in this context and tried to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e299	In my opinion, it is a very important interpellation that Jan-Henrik Fredriksen brings up here today. We both represent Finnmark and are naturally concerned with a positive development in the northern regions, which the Government also adds up to. There is a high potential for increased cooperation across the Norwegian-Russian border in the north. Greater trade in this border region could have very positive effects on the population on both sides of the border. There can be much to say about the development of industry in eastern Finland, which could become a stronger centre of commerce and tourism. We therefore see positive ring-effects for both business and community. Studies show that in most areas there has been a positive economic development in the Murmansk area in recent years. This contributes to increased purchasing power for the population, while at the same time increasing opportunities for business in the region for international trade and investment. This again opens too many possibilities. The left is concerned that the resulting balanced economic development of Finnmark is to be achieved. We therefore support the establishment of a pomor zone between Finnmark and Murmansk, as proposed in the Northern Region Strategy of the Government, which was presented on 1 December last year. The zone, also known as a Norwegian-Russian industrial and economic cooperation zone, can become an important area for cooperation between Norwegian and Russian companies. It may be based on natural advantages enjoyed by the parties, as well as land installations and associated activities linked to the development of petroleum deposits in the Barents Sea. The left is also concerned with facilitating the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises within and outside the zone. In addition to subcontracting of goods and services for oil and gas related activities, points out, inter alia: tourism, culture and trade are key areas of activity. This could be more conducive to East-West trade and to cross-border economic interrelationship than a unilateral investment in oil and gas for exports to remote markets. In addition, it will improve the conditions for an even denser people to work with people. The current instrument does not seem to fully satisfy the current need to promote such an industrial structure. The left is therefore in favour of looking through the whole instrument with a view to removing frontier barriers, implementing trade promotion measures, as well as project support, credit, guarantee and hosting programmes. We are also concerned that visas and work permits should be easier to obtain. It is an important prerequisite for promoting increased economic relations and a people for cross-border people's cooperation. Our objective is a varied industrial structure with both large companies and a subforestation of small and medium-sized enterprises. We also want special measures aimed at micro-levels, i.e. sole proprietorships, and entrepreneurs, who wish to start cross-border activities in the north. Many of the challenges we face need to be addressed by Norwegian-Russian cooperation in, for example, Russia. environmental and resource management. That is why a people for people's cooperation must be an important part of our north-eastern policy. When people come together in openness and communication in different areas, understanding and trust are created between people. This will be very important in view of the positive development of the northern regions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e316	Some of the most exciting things that happen in Norway are perhaps happening in the northern regions and in Finnmark, which is the starting point of the interpellant. I think it is very good that we have a new opportunity to discuss and debate this topic. There is no doubt that we have great visions for the northern regions. Nor is there any doubt that the optimism of the Church is great. It's the board itself in the meeting with the possibilities that are on the Norwegian side, and not least those that are on the Russian side. It's also true that we want a lot in the north, and then it's important that we play our cards right. We must play with and not against local forces and ideas. In the meeting with Russia, it is therefore essential that the central Norwegian authorities be doorkeepers and proponents in order to remove unnecessary obstacles and help to facilitate cross-Norwegian contacts, whether we are talking about more human contacts, or we are talking about trade in goods and services. We just have everything to win, but we also have everything to lose if we don't succeed now. It seems that when we visit Finnmark, when we visit South Varanger, we actually have something to learn from Finland in this area. It seems that Finland has managed to solve some of the practical problems that are perceived as rather tough and difficult with Norwegian eyes. The labour shortage is a major challenge for the entire Norwegian society. In Finland, fisheries in particular have over time had an element of Russian labour. In recognition of the fact that labour shortages will also increase in Finnmark in the years to come, the Right has actually proposed the introduction of visa freedom for Russian workers who want to work in the north. It would also be a contribution to giving jobs to some of the Russians in the region who are struggling to find a job at home. When I visited Kirkenes on 19 February, I met a number of representatives of various states and municipalities – and businessmen. The interpellant is right when he points out that there are some stumble threads that should be removed, and that as soon as possible. Of course, it is very gratifying, as the Foreign Minister here explains, to extend the opening hours at Storskog Border Station. But it's a little worrying when you get to the churches and hear that the Tolletaten and the Food Authority, who have to be in place for these opening hours to become real, almost have not heard of the plans. They have not been included in the preparatory work. You don't know when to start this six-year trial, and you don't even have a solution to how to finance an extended opening time. So here, there's a great need for the Foreign Minister to be the coordinator he's supposed to be on the North Side, and to make sure that the state budgets keep pace. That must be the least we could ask for if we're going to be able to increase the counting and make use of the possibilities in the north. In particular, food surveillance has major challenges related to resources. I have recently asked a question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food that there has been a sudden stoppage in Russian fishing landings at the Kirkenes terminal. This is attributed to the fact that on 1 February this year the Food Safety Authority has introduced new opening hours, which means that there is zero flexibility compared to when Russian boats can unload their catches. That means that the situation at the terminal is dramatic. In fact, large parts of the revenue base are now under threat. Then my message is again that the states have to cooperate in order for development to take place, and do not help to turn off the lights in the houses of the Church. The Minister of Agriculture’s reply was that different options for dealing with this situation were explored and that one of the possibilities is that the opening hours become as they are today. My advice to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is that if this is an alternative that is being considered, it should be put in the drawer as soon as possible, because it is such a bad alternative that it threatens the entire activity of Russian landings. So you could ask, why do I spend so much time on that particular example? Well, it illustrates so well how important it is that the state does not tighten its legs below this, but encourages and stimulates activities in the north. I'm going to use the last little half-minute to talk about the Barents Institute, because I've asked the Foreign Minister a question about it. The government has said in the Northern Region Strategy that knowledge should be naveled. Then I think it is very important that the Minister of Foreign Affairs really undertakes to be an active father and a ‘soil father’ of the Barents Institute – not to let go of that institution at first, but to ensure long-term and predictability, so that the environment can build up to be the base of competence that we all expect the Institute to become.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e335	I would very much like to thank you for a lot of interesting contributions and a lot of commitment to the interpellation. But something surprises me a little bit: you can spend a long time talking about oil reloading in South Varanger, about the tasks of the Consulate General and how it works in practice, but what we're really talking about here – visas, border crossings – are in many ways practical exercises, what we're going to do in practice. Today, when the situation is such that Norway can remove self-imposed restrictions on the issue of visas without conflicting with the Schengen Agreement and without weakening our cooperation with Russia – it would rather strengthen it – and when dealing with cultural workers, health workers or industrial workers, if we wish to exchange and cooperate in one or the other area, the question is: Where should we start to get this into? In my opinion, it is quite clear that we must start with the legislation. And as far as the legislation is concerned, in that debate we will be in the same situation as when we talk about border crossings in the rest of the Nordic region: every little bit we have to remove is a reduction in bureaucracy. Do you have enough will to do this? There are many irreplaceable people in the system who want to defend their own jobs. We'll never get away with that. Therefore, the following is important: if we are to find a solution to what we are facing here, we must have the will – and it must be great enough – to implement it. I would particularly like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a very good statement related to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e348	Very briefly, but honestly, I will return that thank you to the representative Fredriksen. We have had a concrete and good debate here. To what the representative Højbräten called for: I can clearly say that I want to be ‘hands on’ in this case. It is important – it was Kristiansen who mentioned it – that we follow this, because progress lies in the details and in the legislation. As I said, there were many interesting illustrations in the papers as well. Perhaps this topic could be suitable for a written question, so that you could find out about some of its contents. However, I will come back with this in an appropriate form. I agree with the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee that the vision must be – I have said it myself – that travelling north should be like traveling anywhere else in the Nordic region. It doesn't happen tomorrow, but you have to be allowed to have that vision -- there's no reason to have a different vision. Schengen provides for flexibility. Let me just stress that in terms of fees, we have a very liberal practice. All under 18 years of age are excluded. Anyone who has invitations to different things will be exempted. In the case of 37 pst. of the applications, no fee is required. At least it shows a willingness to use the rules that way. And I can also follow up – to the representative of Höglund: we will be active around the Schengen table on this topic. We have had many interesting discussions about seeming technical things – with great visions for the north. Everything's connected. For example, network capacity – on which Valle’s representative was involved – is an important topic. It's something you don't solve overnight, but we have to put pressure on. Once again to the representative of Højbräten – on fish, oil, business related to the Presidential Office, a northern dimension: I want to pay tribute to the work he is doing as President of the Nordic Council, by setting this agenda. It's important. Then to the representative Aspaker. I fully agree that we must play with and not against – not tighten our legs. Learning from Finland in Russia is useful in many ways. We have also opened up closer dialogue on this – and we want it beyond spring – by setting this agenda as best as possible. I notice what has been said about food – veterinary conditions and food supervision. It's a demanding theme. The ambitions shall be the same in this area as in other areas. However, it is a demanding issue, in which Russia – with respect to reporting – has a very demanding relationship with a very large number of countries in Europe. Poland and meat can be mentioned as an example in this context. We're going to try to reduce it as an obstacle. Finally, as far as the Barents Institute is concerned, yes, we are actively following it up. But I've been busy stressing to the knowledge environments in the north that they connect to the Barents Institute, to the University of Tromsø and also to others, because we can't expect to build a knowledge environment based on two people sitting at an institute in Kirkenes. And I've been very concerned that the board members of this institute, who are heavy business players in the north, have to take responsibility. I am not concerned about sending an eternal signal about full state financing of operations. There shall also be an incentive for actors in the north to enter and see the importance of knowledge. We'll follow it closely up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e371	That is when the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e385	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e394	The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change presented its report a month ago and described a future of major climate change. The report shows that all countries around the world need to reduce climate emissions in order to reverse this trend. At home, the Low Emissions Committee has identified different measures to reduce Norway’s overall climate emissions. The red-green government has from day one focused heavily on these issues. In the Soria Moria Declaration, these challenges are given great attention, including: the government’s priority of developing sectoral climate action plans has been widely discussed. The same is true of the work of the Government on an action plan on environmental and social responsibility in public acquisitions. The documents are presented this spring. Similarly, the Government Declaration has clear formulations for the deployment and development and use of environmentally friendly vehicles and measures to make it more attractive to move to low-emission cars. The Minister of Oil and Energy has indicated that the Government will require oil companies that a certain percentage of the turnover of all fuel should be biofuels, and the Minister of Environment will consider instructing all refuelling stations to sell the E85 as one of several measures to raise the share of biofuels. These are important strategies all the time 22 pst. all emissions in mainland Norway come from the transport sector. It is with these stated efforts from the Government – as well as the big message and the action plan that comes this spring – that representatives Holten Hemdal and Sahl from the Christian People's Party are in the process of promoting a proposal for a representative with five concrete proposals for using biofuels in Norway. These five proposals have increased during the Committee's consideration to eight proposals on which the Christian People's Party is involved. In most of the proposals, the Government is asked to consider arrangements that the Christian People's Party knows are initially under work, in preparation. This is with respect to reporting symbol politics at its worst. As the Council of State says in its letter to the Committee, the Government is now working on the key issue of sectoral action plans and action plan on environmental and social responsibility. Both documents are presented this spring. In the light of what I have now explained, it is tempting to join the opinion that the opposition's proposal superiority should be imposed on a certain seriousness in terms of professional and legal quality policy. I must further comment on proposal No. 11, where Christian People's Party and Left ask the Government to establish a national target of 5.75 pst. share of biofuels by 2010 and that in a note from these batches: ‘Norway is miles from that target today’. And who's been with the government for the last ten years? Yes, Bondevik for seven and a half years, and Stoltenberg for two and a half years. Who has had plenty of time and power to achieve a goal of 5.75 p.m.? Yes, Minister of the Environment Børge Brende has had it, and it has had Minister of Environmental Protection Hareide – from the Christian People's Party. The Red-Green Government has taken up the challenge, as opposed to Bondevik's Environment Ministers. So I imagine today's debate will be largely about taxes, carrots or whips, and of course about the possibility of researching and developing biofuels and developing second generation biofuels. What we all know is that an overall increase will be behind the Government when it presents its big message on sectoral action plans and action plan on environmental and social responsibility. These are important proposals, these are important considerations, and we all have to support them in the fight for a better environment. Document No The 8 proposal from the Christian People's Party can be interpreted as a genuine commitment and an impatience on behalf of the environment, but it smells like a media stunt a long way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e415	The batch of progress is, in line with all other batches, in favour of increased use of biofuels in the transport sector, but under certain conditions. Both biodiesel, bioethanol and biogas alone represent very interesting supplements to the use of fossil fuels in the Norwegian transport sector. However, the Progress Party is of the opinion that increased use of biofuels must be based primarily on incentives and market mechanisms and not on a mandate from the authorities. The progress batch is negative to a purely market directive on biofuels without any tax relief, as this will lead to even more expensive fuels for consumers in Norway. It's important to note here that biofuels are part more expensive to produce and distribute than fossil fuels. Biofuels need to be taxed if biofuels are to be made competitive compared to fossil fuels, because only when the pump price is similar to traditional fossil fuels and blending fuels will market mechanisms be able to function with regard to the choice of fuel types by consumers. Today, the transport sector accounts for approx. 22 pst. of Norway’s total CO2 emissions. It is obvious that a certain blend of bioethanol and biodiesel into fossil fuels will result in a more CO2-neutral energy consumption in the transport sector. With Norwegian wood as the raw material, the production of 2nd generation biofuels in Norway appears to be both realistic and timely in the future. However, increasing use of biofuels in the future will require the development of higher energy efficiency production processes. It is also necessary to clarify precisely how much energy a large-scale biofuel production would require. It must be a prerequisite for a high-scale biofuel production effort that such production leads to a positive energy account as a whole. At the same time, future biofuels need to improve their durability, cold properties and some other product characteristics. However, such product challenges are likely to be solved within a few years. We see that today the technology for 2nd generation biofuels based on forest resources in the country is at a rather early commercial stage, and further commercialisation will require continued considerable research and development. From a competent point of view, the production potential of biofuels in Norway is currently estimated to be approx. 15 pst. of our total fuel consumption, and the Progress Party has noticed that if you were to replace it in the future approx. 20 pst. Thus, of today’s fossil fuel consumption in Norway by biofuels, about 5 million cubic metres of forest would have been taken into account annually for such production. This is not a negligible maximum quantity compared to the current peak effect of between 7 and 9 million cubic metres per year, and such an increase in forest harvesting may require much better overall planning of the management of total forest resources in Norway for a longer period of time. So the progress party will not commit itself to any clear numerical objectives in terms of percentage incorporation of biofuels, as one might say. have done so in the EU and in some other countries. The Progress Party is of the opinion that the market mechanisms have to work, and in this way we believe that an instrument can be tax-free on biofuels, so that it becomes competitive compared to fossil fuels. The lot of progress is so far not subject to a sales order if a sales order will be issued to a device that will generate even higher fuel charges in Norway. As you know, Norway currently has the highest fuel taxes in the world. So we cannot be involved in a change in fuel consumption in Norway without assuming that fuel prices do not increase. In this context, I would like to address the proposals where the Progress Party is the proposer or the co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e440	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e443	I am addressing the proposals on which the Right is alone or co-sponsored, which have not already been raised by the representative Andersen of the Progress Party. When you listen to the representative of the government parties, who is the rapporteur on this matter, you might get the impression that this document No. The 8 proposal was extremely unnecessary. If it is representative of how the red-greens view the challenges we face in this area, it is simply in line with, in parallel with, the lack of action we have seen on these issues and these issues. We have seen that one country after another – our neighbouring country, Europe otherwise and others – is actively on the road and is accepting any constructive proposal with thanks. I also think that this proposal, even if it came from the opposition, should have been accepted. I hope it is not entirely representative, the approach of the government parties to these issues – the CO2 challenge and how we are going to achieve our Kyoto targets – namely, to view these proposals as nothing more than media input. In fact, Norwegian climate emissions today are significantly above our 1 pst Kyoto obligation. increases in relation to 1990 levels, and the transport sector accounts for a significant proportion of the total CO2 emissions in Norway. We have to succeed in this area too if we're to achieve our goals. Then it's not sustainable to have a political approach to these issues where you go with a clipping initiative and compare who did most ten years ago, because this isn't about who did most ten years ago. I think it is time for today's government to begin to understand that it has come to year two – out of 4 – in the approach to how we are to reach, for example, the EU directive on a share of 5.75 pst. biofuels by 2010. It is not then possible to receive these types of proposals with the approach that appears to be taking place today. In addition, I just want to say that you have to operate a different form of stimulation policy for environmentally friendly cars and environmentally friendly fuels than you have shown so far. Even if it comes from the opposition, one must not take this unilateral insult up, because it is actually in some very constructive proposals that are being promoted. For example, the government has not exempted from petrol the proportion of bioethanol involved. In comparison, exemptions from the biofuel autodiesel tax have been introduced. This gives you a mix that doesn't hang in a hop, which will pave the way for one application of fuel, but not the other. It has not been chosen to stimulate a reduction in charges for vehicles that are the most environmentally friendly. This means that those who had to believe that the government has done enough in this area have to navigate quite differently, and that they simply have to have an incentive policy in this area. You also have to start seeing in the red-green parts soon that we don't have an infrastructure that stimulates the use of biofuels today. We barely have it in the capital today. It is possible that oil companies will be drivers in a labelling scheme or to stimulate the use of biofuels. But I don't think that's enough. Nor have we seen that the oil companies in other areas have been drivers to anything other than what they are best at – selling their primary production. For this reason, a different policy approach and a different form of incentive policy must be pursued, with the major objectives we set, namely to reduce our climate emissions and at least to be close to being at least as good in this area as our neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e464	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e467	I would first like to thank the representatives Holten Hemdal and Sahl for focusing their attention on a very important area of climate policy. There is no doubt that increased efforts to develop and use biofuels are crucial to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. SV is therefore pleased that the Government has great ambitions in this area. We've already made sure to remove the fees on E85, or bioethanol. This has enabled the opening of the first two ethanol pumps here in Oslo. Several pumps will be opened forward. During the year, the Government will come up with several measures to increase the turnover of biofuels in Norway. Among other things, a separate turnover order has been notified. Greenhouse gas emissions have increased sharply in the transport sector. The forecasts show that, without action, growth in the future will be large. There is no doubt that the use of emission-free and climate-neutral fuels needs to be increased. At the same time, SV is committed to focusing on measures to reduce transport needs, by investing in public transport and effective land-use planning. In this case, we don't have to wonder if the climate action works. Sweden has shown for the last five to seven years that it is possible to achieve a rapid reduction in biofuels. From 2000 to 2004, the turnover of ethanol in Sweden increased from 21 million to 260 million litres. The sale of flexible cars increased from 717 in 2001 to 22,618 in 2005. I would like to highlight the plans of Norsk Hydro and Norwegian Forest on the large-scale production of biofuels in Norway as a good example of Norwegian industrial companies taking the climate noise seriously, while seeing the potential for the development of food that is at stake in forward-looking solutions. I will end by stressing how important it is that we have this kind of climate debate in Stortinget. It shows an understanding of the implementation of climate action nationally and in all sectors of society. I look forward to continuing the debate when the Government presents its proposals for sectoral climate action plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e483	Earth's climate has been changing as long as our globe has existed. Nevertheless, today's climate change is dramatic because it's big, global, fast and man-made. According to the calculations of the Low Emissions Committee, transport-related emissions have also grown more rapidly than other emissions. One fifth of CO2 emissions in Norway come from road traffic. That is why this matter and the debate today are important in relation to the climate challenges we face, and also in relation to the obligations that we as a nation have taken on us in relation to cutting climate emissions. I record that the government will later this spring return to the Stortinget with sectoral climate action plans and an action plan on environmental and social responsibility for public acquisitions. I don't think I take too seriously when I say that I and many with me have great expectations, especially of the sectorial climate action plans. They must contain clear objectives, new measures and new instruments for how these action plans are to become the necessary tools for Norway to achieve our climate change targets. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State in its statement today can confirm that the sectoral climate action plans will contain sectoral objectives and not just, as the Committee's letter states, that this will be assessed. A majority government has a unique chance of getting through groundbreaking environmental and climate policies. It is necessary if we are to become a priority country in environmental policy. The government has stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that the biofuels introduction programme should be in line with EU policy. It is good that the EU can draw us forward in some areas. Unfortunately, we are far away from this goal per. today. But the technical recommendations are clear, and they came in 2005 and 2006. Then the Christian People's Party was not in government. There were some other parties that put in government at this point in time. But what is needed now is the political will to set a target for how much of the biofuels we are going to have in Norway. The Christian People's Party, together with the Right and Left, has proposed a national target of 5.75 pst. biofuels in 2010. To achieve this, a market needs to be created, and therefore a mandatory turnover is important. There are many conscious consumers who would fill biofuels if the offer were available in a certain radius from their place of residence. We also know that our car fleet already tolerates a certain percentage of biofuels today. But then the availability doesn't exist. In several parts of the country, there are developing environments burning for increased use of biofuels. Many fires exist, and very good work and considerable progress have led to changes — almost despite the system. A change in the charging system is therefore essential – that it is made profitable to buy and drive the most environmentally friendly cars and buses, while not stimulating the increased use of cars per person. the population. A commitment also in the collective sector, on buses operating on alternative biofuels, is important. Christian People's Party is impatient. It also appears in today's setting. Unfortunately, we're alone. We can't get the government on all the proposals, either on concrete or overall objectives. This is in no way a media stunt, on which the rapporteur tried. This is a real commitment that we've been working on in the long term. That's why we spent our time in the government offices getting the professional recordings from the SFT, we put down the Low Emissions Committee, and now that's the recommendation. And then we're going to do it in the right order, and then we're going to build politics. I am therefore pleased that the SV representative is on that track and sees the importance of an impatient opposition that will also be involved in doing something about the major climate challenges we are facing. Let us hope that many of these proposals that are being voted on today will be found in the sectoral climate action plans later this spring. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e505	The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal has taken up the suggestion she herself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e509	Greenhouse gas emissions from road traffic are strongly increasing and, as already mentioned in the debate, stand at over 20 pst. of the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore a source of emissions that it is very important to do something about reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is in the recommendation of the Low Emissions Committee that, as far as possible, fossil fuel must be replaced by non-CO2 fuel. Both the Low-Emission and SFTs have, as already mentioned, recommended a marketing ban for biofuels. The left wants to establish such a national target, which has also been mentioned, of 5,75 pst. biofuels by 2010. It is consistent with the targets set by the EU and in line with the approach outlined in the Soria Moria Declaration. To achieve this objective, active action and a number of measures are required. One of these measures will be this turnover obligation. It is important that the environmental gasoline bioethanol is exempted from fees. The previous government granted a tax exemption for biodiesel that has now led to a profitable lead to biodiesel for sale. Statoil is now planning to sell biodiesel at sixty gas stations in the East. A similar fee exemption is required for bioethanol. The tax exemption provided by the Government is too limited. There is also a background for the Left in the budgetary procedure to put forward a proposal for more extensive tax exemptions, which could lead to the same situation for bioethanol as for biodiesel, namely that it is commercially interesting for companies to sell it. On this basis, as the proposer also explained in his statement, it is totally misleading and wrong to present the involvement here, as populist and typical opposition policy. It's a natural follow-up of what was done in the previous government, where one so arranged for biodiesel sales to be commercially interesting. In addition to what we have discussed today, there must be a lot of other things. Among other things, the Left is concerned that public procurement is leading the way and contributes to the development of a larger market for both environmental cars and biofuels. In order to increase consumer awareness and competitiveness of biofuels, it is important that the Government improves the availability of information on the potential use of biodiesel. It is also important that we get a labelling scheme for the fuel pumps where it is clear whether the fuel contains climate friendly biofuels. Active and conscious consumers are an important part of the offensive we need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Trust in maintaining a good framework for environmental solutions has been weakened since the Government overturned green certificates. This uncertainty can also lead to people who want to invest in, among others, the production of drugs. biofuels, are uncertain whether the framework conditions will last. This is why we want to find out how companies investing in the production of biofuels in Norway can be assured of economic predictability over time. It is important to keep an alert eye on the land use for food production versus bioenergy. There may be conflicts that are important in developing policies in this area. Forest resources should be used in a sustainable way, and there is a need to focus more heavily on research and development on solutions where wood is used to produce biofuels, such as: Norwegian Forest and Norwegian Hydro are working on it. There are also a number of other places in the country where the potential for biofuel production is being explored, including the competent environment. is the case in my own hometown of Egersund. The government emphasises the conversion of car tax policies as an important element of offensive environmental policies. The left was therefore disappointed that the most environmentally friendly cars, those using the environmental gasoline bioethanol, were more expensive as a result of the conversion of fees. It is positive that the Government will come back with a marketing ban for biofuels. However, the left fears that this is becoming too ambitious and therefore wants a national target for the use of biofuels that are as ambitious as the EU has set itself. I expect that the proposals for which the government parties are now turning the thumb down will be considered in the context of the sectoral action plans to be submitted to spring, and that one will then come back with a more positive attitude. Indeed, a strong offensive is needed in this area to increase the use of biofuels.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e538	There is no doubt that this is a very important field to address. In the large picture, the transport sector already accounts for more than one fifth of greenhouse gas emissions, some of which have been involved. The forecasts show that the transport sector will have a significantly greater share of emissions in Norway in the future, both when measured relatively, in percentages, and when measured in absolute emissions. In such a perspective, it is clear that measures are needed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. I also think it's obvious that biofuels will be one of the strategies that it's important to move on to achieve the goals we set. As far as the process is concerned, it is not more difficult than we want to come back to many of these discussions and actions related to the sectorial climate action plans later. But I want to come up with some thoughts and reflections about the issues we have to discuss. In the public debate, it is often made as if biofuels would be able to meet our challenges related to greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. Although biofuels will be important, there is no doubt that there is a limited resource that we cannot replace. It's simply not enough forest or enough production space to replace the amount of energy we use today as fossil fuels with bioenergy. Just to give an example: even if we double the output in the Norwegian forests, it equals an energy of 20 TWh. Norwegian society currently consumes well over 350 TWh in total. So here you have an amount of energy, an unused energy resource, which represents a relatively low percentage. That is, we have to housekeepers with this resource as reasonable as we can, in order to get the greatest possible effect. Of course, we're going to use it for biofuels, but it could also be that there are other things that make sense to use it. A successful phase-in of 2nd generation biofuels requires, in my opinion, the use of waste heat from the production plants. The technologies we've been presented so far show that only 45 pst. from the original energy, it can be further processed into bioenergy. Then we depend on taking out the process heat so that we can get an energy account that goes together. In addition, on the southern hemisphere today more forests are being mined than is the growth. In many places in the world, there is a beginning to be a struggle for food resources. At least then, we're going to have a watchful look at the resources you use for fuel, and how this happens. We must ensure that it does so within the framework of sustainable development and that it does not conflict with food production and biodiversity. I'm not going to be very negative about this, but this is important to notice: I think we're going to be offensive about bioenergy, because within these limits there are great opportunities. I think it's right that the public as a large consumer takes the lead in introducing these technologies and making demands. I think it's very right that you promote claims for a percentage of interference. It's technology neutral. It is a reasonable way to quickly phase in large amounts of bioenergy. What is stated in the government statement is that one should go at the same level as the EU, i.e. 5.75 pst. by 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e551	The government is concerned about the impacts of greenhouse gas emissions, both globally and nationally. Road traffic, as mentioned by several, stands for approx. 20 pst. of Norway’s CO2 emissions. It is therefore important to address the possibilities of reducing greenhouse gas emissions from cars and heavier vehicles. I am very pleased that there is a broad consensus in the Storting and in the opinion that this is important and necessary. Biofuels are considered as climate-neutral fuels, since CO2 emissions from biologically based fuels enter the natural carbon cycle and thus do not contribute to the increase in total carbon, as combustion of fossil fuels does. We are committed to reducing emissions from road traffic and will therefore help to increase the use of biofuels. In addition, it is important to reduce fuel consumption and pollutant emissions in general. Investment in public transport and e.g. development of pedestrian and cycle routes is also an important part of the overall package. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government confirmed that we will bet on increased use of biofuels and on motivating the choice of low-carbon cars. We have already started the biggest environmental conversion of car charges in recent times, as part of our work to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. Among other things, we have the conversion of the one-off charge has been put in place so that CO2 emissions now count. And we've got an exemption from the CO2 tax on the proportion of bioethanol blended into ordinary petrol. We will also further assess the overall framework conditions for road traffic, including vehicle and fuel charges. Conversion to climate-neutral fuels may also provide opportunities for future industrial development in the form of production of 2nd generation biofuels. This will also make the action an even better environmental measure. As announced in the 2007 budget, the Government is now considering a possible requirement for the placing on the market of biofuels. Although we have already introduced more measures to increase the use of biofuels, we see the need for further efforts. The government is in the middle of these assessments now, and I cannot therefore advance the final decisions here today. However, I can promise that the Government is committed to putting in place good measures to reduce emissions from road traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e577	As the Council of State had in mind, the Government has notified a possible marketing ban in the case of biofuels. This is something else that the Progress Party is opposed to. So when you have chosen not to use incentives, but prohibitions, in the view of the Progress Party, this will have to have the consequence that there must be tax relief on biofuels, so that biofuels do not become too expensive in relation to fossil fuels. Is it the case that the Government strongly assesses this, so that, as far as the directive is concerned, it must at least be possible to obtain a device that does not give us overall increased fuel charges in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e582	We have already exempted bioethanol from the CO2 tax. We are also aware, of course, that today there are different charging treatments for blending bioethanol into ordinary petrol and biodiesel into ordinary diesel. This is something we will look at in terms of the overall framework conditions for road traffic. Therefore, there will also be an overall assessment of these charges in the context of its review.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e590	It is good that the Government is committed to good measures to reduce emissions from road traffic, with which the Council of State concluded its contribution. The opportunities will be used, and we are concerned about the climate emissions we see from this sector. This is good. My challenge is a little bit of what I challenged the Council of State in my speech, if the Council of State can confirm that the sectoral climate action plans will set targets? In all other areas, we have political objectives. Then we find action, and we figure out how to achieve the goals that we've set ourselves, because we think it's important. Unfortunately, we experience a little too often in this sector that setting targets is important, and it is also repeated in the letter that the Council of State wrote to the Committee. My challenge is: can the Council of State now confirm that the sectoral climate action plans will contain concrete targets, including in the traffic sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e599	We are in the middle of the sectorial climate action plans. What we have said, and as I have also said before, is that in the context of the work on the sectoral climate action plans, we should set ourselves national emission reduction targets for both 2008 and 2012 and for 2020. Then we have said that in the context of the treatment of the configuration of the Low Emissions Committee, we should set our generation targets. With regard to concrete design, what it will look like when we break up each sector, the distribution of the different targets within the sectoral climate action plans, we have not yet concluded. I have to get back to Stortinget with that when the Storing Message is delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e606	Government posts were kind, but very little concrete, so there is a need for some clarification in this round. May the Council confirm the Soria Moria target of 5.75 pst. the fuel consumption shall be biofuels in 2010, or we shall be faced with another environmental policy area where the targets are not met, such as: in the case of noise and expansion on Kårstø? The second specific question is that one now says that one should ‘assess’ a possible turnover requirement: Can the Council of States confirm – as some from the government parties put it – that there will be a turnover obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e615	As I have mentioned, the Government is now in the middle of an assessment of a possible marketing ban for biofuels. If – and when – such a trading order is imposed, I will come back when we have determined it. That is why there is no basis today for prioritizing the Government's final decision. I just want to refer to the Soria Moria Declaration, and to the Government, as I have also said, this field has a strong focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e620	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e626	There is broad scientific consensus that climate change is now taking place that is influenced by human activity. The consequences of climate change are serious. We will mark them clearly, not least here north of us – everything from shorter winters and more precipitation to more mountain images, etc. It can be a big challenge for us to adapt to these changes in the climate. A practical and functional adaptation is more use of biofuels in the transport sector. It will reduce climate emissions and it is a realistic strategy. Biofuels are therefore the main lever in the EU to reduce climate change emissions in the transport sector. In the Christian People's Party we think it is right now to set a target for the use of biofuels and introduce a directive on the turnover of petrol stations. Here, market forces can be used in a good way. The fees can be used to promote environmentally friendly behaviour, and we therefore need a tax exemption for ethanol blended into petrol. We have to pay more attention to biofuels and motivate users to use them. The potential is already here, but access to biofuels needs to be facilitated. Therefore, we must have a requirement for the oil companies to translate. There is evidence that biofuels can distort food production. We should not ignore this issue, but the Christian People's Party does not believe that biofuels will completely replace fossil fuels. The integration strategy will give us the emission reductions we need. This will hardly give rise to so much and less food production, because the distribution of food is, as you know, also a global challenge. Biofuels give rise to increased yields from our forests and will provide better conditions for a good forest culture. We therefore need to look at how forestry can meet needs, for example: through several forest roads, transport of timber, cutting methods and forest planting. Finally, let me remind you how important it is to stimulate the development and production of 2nd generation biofuels, where we use the whole plant, not just seeds and flowers. Research and development tools are needed here. Such a bet will be a necessary step on the road towards the hydrogen car and the hydrogen society. This is a longer-term technology that will build on experience in the use of biofuels. Therefore, a policy for more use of biofuels will both require even more effort for new technologies and will provide new business. That's why this is a win-win situation!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e643	Yes, we would be able to take part in a debate in the Grand Chamber on how the Christian People’s Party believes that more alcohol should be used in Norway – and then at a fee level in line with Sweden. There are several of them who have spoken today, who have talked about the emission-neutral fuels. So we're talking here about biofuels as emission-neutral fuels. What does the majority base this on? Is it not true that the production of biofuels causes land reclamation in Indonesia and Brazil, deforestation and deforestation? Is it not true that this process uses fertilizers produced with coal power and that the ethanol is burned? The fact that the Christian People's Party doesn't know much about the production of ethanol, I'm going to do it with crushing tranquillity, but it's like you're also using a considerable amount of power when you produce ethanol. This is also done in Brazil and Indonesia by coal-fired power. Is the bioethanol not then transported over half the Pacific and Atlantic to Western Europe by tanker vessels which are obviously powered by fossil bunker oil? It is a paradox when only the Progress Party wants the real energy and environmental accounts to be surveyed for the use of bioethanol in Western Europe. My claim is that if this is going to be sustainable in the long term, it's about having to pick up a large part of the bioethanol we use from national production. So no matter how many happinesses we send in this room, we only have 20 million cubic meters of forest to use. The discussion today should have been: what are we going to spend the 20 million cubic meters for? My approach to this — in particular, given that the cost of action on CO2 reduction in the use of bioethanol is above NOK 1500, perhaps up to NOK 3000 per year. Ton – is that with a certain degree of eugenicity, we should rather focus more on the use of forests in Norway for bioheating, and perhaps to some extent on bioelectricity, with much lower response costs. If we are to invest in biofuels, we must use as much Norwegian forest as possible, and we must also invest in research and development on the most efficient production of bioethanol in Norway. When it's said, if the government reaches its goal of 5.75 pst. bioethanol incorporation – and if I take the calculation from the Government for good fish – you reduce CO2 emissions by 5.75 pst. A hybridisation of the Norwegian fleet could reduce emissions from the fleet by 40 pst without the need for coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e660	I would first like to thank you for a very good exchange of views. When we sum up, we see that most of the measures discussed here, there is a broad consensus in the Storting, perhaps with the exception of the Progress Party, which has taken some reservations in the debate. I have to comment on the post by the representative Ivar Kristiansen, who might give the impression that I thought the debate was unnecessary. It's an obvious misunderstanding. The debate is not unnecessary in view of the importance of the matter, and the use of biodiesel is important, but my point is that the debate may be a little unnecessary, as it is a matter of weeks before the Government presents its solutions. We have seen that the Council of State has received questions, and that she has had to refer to what is coming. So we will not have a constructive debate until the realities are on the table, and that has been my point. If the opposition doesn't like that I point it out, now it's going to be. With regard to the Christian People's Party, I think maybe they can tone it down a little bit when they almost regret not getting the Government with them in this case. It is, as I said, weeks before there is a big message about sectoral action plans, and then the government comes with it. You have a total mass that thinks this is very important. In conclusion, we may consider this debate to be a warm welcome and welcome the real debate that we will have over the holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e671	Biofuel is "hype" right now, and I'm because it is. But I think that is a good reason to say something about the transport sector when we first discuss the challenges we face, because the transport sector in Norway accounts for about 20 pst. of the CO2 emissions. If we take international shipping, it gets even higher. But it's not within our Kyoto obligations. There are three major challenges in the transport sector: one is to make people travel less, because we travel too much. Too often we use energy-intensive aids to move from one place to another. We should cycle more, go more and carefully consider whether all the trips we make are right to make. The other thing is to make people travel together instead of individually. Then we have to bet on a bus, train and tram instead of a plane and all the private car we have today. Our third challenge, the third we have to do, is to make sure that each means of transport uses less fuel. All these things are important. But what is good about the biodebate is that here we have completely concrete solutions. We have very specific measures that we can take now, and then we can get results quite quickly. If we are able to achieve the objectives set by the European Union and to which we have joined, and which we in the UK at least believe are more time-consuming – at 75 pst. – in the Soria Moria statement, it means about 1 pst. reduction of emissions in Norway. But there's no more than 1 pst. reduction, and it's a little bit important to remember when we're discussing this. We've been more time-consuming in our budget on two things: one is that we're going to consider how much the tax burden on E85 cars should be, and that's what we're going to get back to in the revised national budget. The second is that we need to assess tax relief and sales bans until revised. We're working on this. We work internally in the Government. We work with environmental organisations. We work with car dealers and car manufacturers, and we work with the people working in downstream petroleum. All of these are part of the debate, so that we can manage to come up with the best possible measures. Now, when we have a majority government, we have a majority in the Storting, the way the opposition promotes matters is to get debates like this in front of us presenting our proposals. When we put and discussed the budget in the autumn, none of the batches proposed to completely eliminate the fees on bioethanol. That's because it cost a couple hundred million dollars. That's why it's a little crude populistic to come right after the budget has been discussed, and say that now we're going to promote the proposal to remove this fee, because if you really meant it, you could spend the money. However, there are many good proposals contained in this document that we will assess when we promote our car package during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e691	We cannot escape the fact that both people and goods must be transported. That's what it's been like, and it's going to be more and more like this. That is why it is important that we commit to the most environmentally friendly transport and reduce transport where possible. Much of our climate emissions come from the transport sector, to which most speakers have spoken, and action needs to be taken. I am glad that Regeninga is in the process of converting the car charges in a more environmentally friendly direction. I am pleased that the Government is working on the overall framework conditions for biofuels, and is looking forward to these measures being launched alive. The transition from the use of pure fossil fuels to more environmentally friendly renewable fuels is crucial. But as the representative Holmås was also involved in the previous post, one cannot escape the basic challenge that is road traffic. That's why there's another important thing that the government is about to do, and that's probably so important to get a more environmentally friendly transport, and that's the investment on the railway. One of the most important things we can do to reduce emissions in the transport sector is to get more traffic, both freight and passenger traffic, onto the road. Let me do an example. The government is financing a new double track between Ski and Oslo. We get multiple departures, space for more and reduced travel time. You will spend shorter time by train from Ski to Oslo than by the tram from Grefsen and down to the center. When people can get an even better collective offer, more people will choose this rather than barge into Oslo. It's environmentally friendly transport. When talking about the transport of the future, the overall objective must be to reduce the transport that contaminates, namely road traffic. If we are to solve the problems of emissions from the transport sector, we must not just change the terms of biofuels, with which the Government is now running. We also need to ensure that more transport, of both people and goods, comes from road to rail. The government has put up a large-scale investment on the railway, while making it more environmentally friendly fuel. It is a commitment to environmentally friendly transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e702	Representatives of the Government Parties have tried to give the impression that, after a long period of standstill in this area, full speed should now be set in the environmental direction. I have a creeping feeling, after hearing the debate today, that that one does, is not to give full speed forward, but to prepare reversing in some areas where one has previously been ready. The Council of State will not confirm that the Soria Moria target is 5.75 pst. Stands firm. She is also not aware of whether there should be a trading order, as more from the parties to the Government have been asked to do. Now it's not possible to get the Council of States to confirm what should have been obvious, that the Soria Moria numbers are fixed. I want to challenge representatives of the three government parties, who have joined forces on the Soria Moria Declaration, to confirm that what the Government will bring in during the spring, is a scheme that implies that 5,75 p.m. the fuel shall be biofuels by 2010 and thus have similar ambitions as the EU in this area. Now we have relatively recent experience that the Government has problems matching SVs, no excuse – yes, to the extent that it does – the level of ambition of the EU in environmental policy. It would be a shame if that were also the case in this area. Here, representatives of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have a unique opportunity to confirm that this target figure from the Soria Moria Declaration is established, even though the Council of State is not able to do so today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e711	In fact, I think today's government parties have an almost arrogant approach to these issues. It's not just our nation, but the world's biggest challenge we're talking about. In fact, this matter is most of all about how to meet our climate challenges, reducing CO2 emissions. Then I noticed the representative Holmås’ statement. Whether there was help or assistance to the Council of State, I do not know, but he calls the opposition’s proposal ‘raw populistic’. I don't think that's a good starting point for inviting the Storting to a broad approach to these questions. I understand that as an aggressive form of defence you can use strong adjectives, but this is not the first time we have such matters for treatment. The rapporteur says that she does not understand why the opposition has such impatience, because it is only a few weeks before the government comes up with the solutions. We get to take her on the floor, and now let's hope that there's only a few weeks until the government puts solutions on the table. It should not be surprising that the opposition has to be more ambitious and much more impatient in these issues than the government parties are able to. We saw that the green certificate scheme was not put in place with Sweden, which could have really stimulated giant investment in future solutions. We have seen what happens to the Government's proposal on renewable energy, which I believe has given its character to both the electric industry, other actors in this industry and environmental organisations. There's not a lot of eyes on the cube that characterize it here. We have seen countries by country come well ahead of Norway in their proposals and approaches to solutions. Therefore, words like ‘raw populistic’ from the opposition are not a good contribution to getting a broad solution, and at least not to achieve the goals that I think most of the wishes will be achieved in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e725	Yes, it is great that the Christian People's Party has a big deal with it, as the rapporteur said. It's not primarily the heart of the Christian People's Party, but what's good about it is the climate challenges we're facing, that we can agree that this could be some of the solutions we need to reach the commitments we've set ourselves. Then we see in this debate that the views of the government fraction and members of the government are cracking. For the Christian People's Party it's really great. We are willing to move the Government as far as possible in an environmentally friendly direction, including in the traffic sector. The representative Holmås called this ‘raw populistic’. I think that is quite a good idea. If we look at these five proposals that we made in October to November: a national target for increased use of biofuels – yes, it is quite sustainable. To develop a framework to make it profitable to change — fairly sober. A package of support schemes for drivers switching to biofuels – many cities already have it. What can we do from national teams? To introduce fuel marketing directives – it is not so much a very specific proposal. It may also be the proposal for the acquisition of vehicles for use in the public sector, where 75 pst. vehicles should use environmentally friendly fuels. I understand, even from my own experience, that there is a difference between sitting in opposition and in position. But we in the Christian People's Party want to use our commitment also in the opposition to be involved and take the necessary steps so that we can give this globe to the next generation – not in a deteriorated state at least. That's our goal, and then it doesn't mean that much, at least not to me as a representative, whether I'm sitting on it or that side of the table, because the commitment is there -- no matter what.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e742	I don't know if it's Ivar Kristiansen who's particularly hairy, or if he only has a slightly selective hearing, but there was one point that went about exempting the proportion of bioethanol involved in gasoline from the fuel tax, which I thought was crude populistic. I like to stand by it. It's okay. The point is that when we discussed this in the Financial Committee before Christmas, all parties, except the Progress Party, joined the Government's proposals in this matter. That means you didn't have 200 million. kr which it costs to remove the fee, if one combines the tax breaks with the requirement to interfere with bioethanol, as part of the batches mentioned here, and in such a way it is OK. But we said very clearly that we will return to this in the context of the revised national budget. I understand that the opposition parties cannot say that they will come back with this in the revised national budget. But they could at least say that they will come back with the money in the revised national budget, if you don't have it now, or if you didn't have it before Christmas. But no one did either. That's why I'm saying that this particular proposal is a good thing. Once we have finished the budgetary procedure, we come up with proposals that cost money and that were not made available in their alternative budgets. That's part of how it is. Apart from that, I think there's a lot of good suggestions here, as it's clear that the government is recording, and that's what I said instead. I would like to grasp two things that I think are a bit troubled, and where I would like to have some advice from the opposition. One is the question of inclusion orders. It's okay to say that we need to have a mixing order, but there are a lot of ways to introduce a mixing order. Is there any particular way in which the opposition imagines such an intervention order designed? Obviously, we can discuss a lot of ways to do this. The progress party took up one thing. The policy of the Progress Party is somewhat influenced – and that is what the Policy of the Advance Party is doing in climate policy – by saying, yes, we are going to put this and this, and then we'll see how far it's going, but we won't put any clear ambitions. They don't want any ambitions for how big the interference is, but they want to start with a reduction in the fee, which you think is a prerequisite for doing this. As I said, it is very good in the proposal. Now we have had a debate. There are a number of remaining problems and challenges that the government parties have to solve, both in the light of this debate and in the time until we land this in the context of the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e757	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2148]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e773	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e782	By Document No 8:21 in 2006-2007, proposers raise a most relevant issue of clarification of security of supply and of giving the state the right and obligation to generate new power. I am pleased that this issue is raised, and that, through the justification for the proposal, the proposers actually indicate that the market alone does not ensure security of supply. That this attitude is now being endorsed by an overall committee, I am also positive and happy and surprised by it. I think it underpins a new political and unanimous recognition that not everything works as the intention behind the Energy Act and the market was. Most functions and tasks in today's society are related to the consumption of electricity on some scale. The pattern of consumption and the degree of dependence make a strong focus on security of supply natural and very important. This is a central and very important topic on which the Government is already working a lot. Norwegian energy supply is vulnerable. Near 100 pst. electricity production is currently based on hydropower. In order to increase security of supply, future electricity generation needs to include more energy sources such as wind, bioenergy and gas. One of the measures taken by the Government is to grant a concession to the CHP plant in Mongstad. We see that by today's system we will be able to assume in an extremely dry year that we have a sub-coverage equal to 25 pst. of annual consumption. This gives an illustration of vulnerability and is not a new phenomenon that has arisen in recent years, but fluctuations between production and consumption that have been there since the mid-1990s. As I said, this is not a recent situation. Between 1996 and 1998, we imported 16.7 billion kWh. Taking the period from 1990 to 2005, we produced nearly 120 billion kWh each year, while consumption was close to 117 billion kWh. We exported nearly 3 billion kWh each year in the period 1990–2005. Despite the media review and the dramatic angle given to security of supply, inter alia: With contributions from people in this room, we went about the same way for 2006. The fact that we currently have relatively good power exchange systems with the rest of the world is a good resource use and is now also absolutely necessary to maintain security of supply. The main issue that lies there will be whether the requirement for which we in today's society define security of supply can be met by a market-based system alone. The experience gained after the introduction of the market system by the 1991 Energy Act suggests, in our opinion, that security of supply considerations are not adequately addressed through the market alone. On the other hand, I believe that there is a certain basis for saying that the Energy Act has led to better use of resources, in view of the investments that have been made, but it has not, to a large extent, taken into account the new generation of electricity, which in turn underpins the security of supply required by today's society and which the proposers are trying to bring forward in a way. There is reason to believe that one of the responses lies in significant changes in the investment pattern of new electricity generation after the introduction of the market. In the period up to the beginning of 1990, a total of well over DKK 10 billion was invested each year. So in new power generation, before 1990, it was invested on average above NOK 4 billion. From 1990 until now, this has been reduced to NOK 2 billion per year. In the case of installed power, it has almost remained stable from 1990 until now. It is obvious that this relationship needs to be further assessed. We are therefore concerned that this issue receives a significant focus in the evaluation of the Energy Act. In a press release dated 20 December 2006, the Government and the Minister for Oil and Energy announced the framework for the evaluation to be carried out by the Energy Act. Central themes will be: conditions for the re-disposal of water storage machinery conditions for the development of the energy efficiency of the heating sector on the consumption side These are areas that support and strengthen the focus on security of supply. When the proposal highlights the responsibility and obligation of the State to maintain security of supply, I am pleased that we now have a joint committee that says that this needs to be assessed in the context of the Energy Act. I am also pleased that a total increase now sees the positive significance of the evaluation work announced by the Government in the Soria Moria Declaration on the Energy Act, which is now to be launched, being endorsed. This, hopefully, provides a broad basis for making the necessary changes to an important law, which also regulates security of supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e829	Let me start by saying that energy has become the world's most important commodity today. The outlook for world energy consumption in the future shows that we are facing a formidable increase in global energy consumption. Global energy consumption growth will primarily come from fossil energy sources – coal, oil and gas, which today represents around 80pst. of the world's total energy consumption. Thus, by 2030, the world's energy consumption, according to estimates from the IEA, has been estimated to increase by approx. 50 pst. relative to current consumption. The fight for energy resources will be increasingly concentrated between nations, energy prices are expected to stay at a high level, and all countries will increasingly focus on security and adequate and reasonable energy supply. Norway is in a particular class among the world and Europe’s nations in terms of access to energy resources in their own country. Norway is today the world’s second largest net exporter of gas. Norway has been the third largest net exporter of oil in the world for many years, and Norway remains the sixth largest producer of hydropower in the world, only shut down by the world’s largest countries such as China, the United States, Canada, Brazil and Russia. Norway today exports about 90 pst. of the energy resources it produces. Our energy export is mainly related to oil and gas. In addition, Norway has Europe’s highest wind power potential. Norway also has large unused bioenergy resources. In addition, we have the world's fourth largest presence of future nuclear energy, thorium. In the middle of this enormously favourable energy situation, Norway nevertheless balances annually on the brink of a national power crisis. Since between 98 pst.–99 pst. of all the electrical energy we produce in Norway is hydropower-based, and the balance of power has become more and more strenuous over the last 10–15 years, Norway’s security of supply has today been decisively lavishing the graces of the weather gods. Being the mercy of the gods, or the wrath of the gods, is a situation even we godly nordic should be a little careful to leave the security of supply to, in the long run. So today, there's trouble in the Norwegian energy paradise, which should really be completely impossible, and which, for the outside world, must appear as complete paradoxical and absurd. Supply security and robust power balance should be a matter of course in the energy nation of Norway, which exports 90 pst. of the country's total energy production, and there only about 10 pst. So it's going to domestic consumption. Norway literally swims in energy resources, but nevertheless balances on the brink of a current crisis every year, creating instability in electricity prices and providing major security of supply challenges, which we could certainly have been ahead of us. In the weakened position in which the power supply situation in the country has come, of course, the Progress Party supports the proposal of the Christian People's Party that the State should be given the right and duty to ensure new power generation. In fact, however, the proposal is a sort of emergency solution, which, from a political point of view, covers political inadequacy in the Norwegian power policy, when we know that politicians have always intervened and stopped rebooting in Norway for the last 10–15 years. We therefore see an urgent need to support this proposal. I would like to thank the Christian People's Party for a relevant proposal and, of course, expect the Christian People's Party to live up to this proposal in the future when there are concrete issues of power development that can ensure security of supply in Norway and the Nordic countries. In conclusion, I think it is worth mentioning that it is perhaps strange that this proposal comes from the very Christian People's Party, because as the Progress Party interprets it, this must be the basis for us to be able to make new, large-scale improvements in hydropower in Norway. It must also be expected that we will build more gas power plants in Norway, that security of supply will be raised, and that priority may be given to both nature conservation and environmental considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e850	The rapporteur has addressed the matter in a thorough manner, and the entire Committee concludes that the review and evaluation of the Energy Act will also address the issue of security of supply. Through the EEA Agreement, we have undertaken to have systems that ensure adequate security of supply for the Norwegian people. I'm not so sure if there's a lack of clarity in liability, which is our main problem in these questions. When we have had situations that have been in border countries for crises, it is probably due to more circumstances. But one aspect that we cannot at least jump over is that from 1990 until now we have had four times as much increase in consumption as in the wake of new production – and that is not how we can continue. It is an undeniable fact that the market has not sufficiently stimulated the production of new renewable energy. We've just had a system where we've had a free demand for energy, but we haven't had a free offer in this country, and then we've got a so-called mismatch. Responsibilities are defined. We have almost 100 percent of the cases of public ownership. Nevertheless, we have seen that we have come into a vulnerable situation in individual cases. Recent snowfalls in the South, which did not occur for the first time in history, and the Steigen municipality, which for six days was powerless and which also lost telecommunications contact, are examples of how vulnerable a society can become. In the review that the Government is going to make, I think it is necessary to have a clearer distinction between production and distribution. I think it is necessary to see if we have not had a situation where we have underinvested in upgrading energy plants, while also finding examples that might indicate that we have had a sub-financing of trasé and line choices. Finally, I would like to challenge the Council of State, since the concept of security of supply is on the agenda today. We have three maritime municipalities in the country that have regularly been in a situation where security of supply is not at least what characterises day-to-day operations. It is Røst, Værøy and Traina, where we have seen that the demand for energy and lack of security and lack of capacity have made these municipalities very vulnerable in individual cases. These municipalities have a strong need to upgrade infrastructure and line networks, but at the same time we have seen that those who have the defined responsibility for supply have not been able to provide the job adequately, with the result that the business life of these maritime municipalities has not been able to develop over time in the pact with the challenges they have taken on, and thus have become very vulnerable. My question, if it is appropriate for the Council of State to address this, is whether he is willing to take the initiative to participate in some sort of spice layer that can ensure these three municipalities a stable security of supply in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e863	The main principles of the Energy Act of 1990 are a more efficient and market-based system of sales of power and an efficient power market with more flexible use of power. The change in 1990 was also intended to ensure a more socio-economically appropriate adaptation to production and consumption. It is widely known that the Energy Act has worked well in relation to several of the key objectives of the law. We have had an efficient use of power resources and a more flexible system. Consumers also benefit from low electricity prices over long periods. Developments in recent years have shown that the power market is functioning as intended in dealing with unexpected fluctuations in the intention, but only to some extent in terms of incentives for new investments in new generation capacity. In areas with low production and high consumption of power, system problems are revealed. Discussions around the power supply in central Norway have made this visible. As the Christian People's Party sees it, the market has not managed to generate new power in line with its needs. A recognition from the experience of this region is that the market regime has reacted too late to the need for more force. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes there is reason to argue that a clean market management here does not ensure security of supply in a good enough way. Getting new generation of power to improve security of supply is therefore a challenge in the current situation. It takes time to get new power production. There are long planning periods, extensive authorisation processes, and market prospects are difficult to assess accurately. This creates some uncertainty about the speed with which new investments can come and have an impact on the market. It has been claimed that there are strict environmental requirements from policy teams that cause too little deployment of new power. The political system shall balance different considerations and be obliged, as the Christian People's Party sees it, to make environmental requirements that take into account the vital prerequisites for the life base of future generations, such as species diversity and a stable climate. Our entire infrastructure depends on energy. A secure energy supply we take for granted in our everyday lives. Where the market does not take full and complete responsibility, authorities should have the means to influence power generation and ensure supply to consumers. The role of the authorities is primarily related to the establishment of appropriate framework conditions and necessary market surveillance and monopoly control institutions. But with many actors in the power market, all of whom are responsible for their interests, the Christian People's Party believes that the legislation is not explicit enough on who is responsible and where the overall responsibility for the power supply is located. That is why I am pleased that an overall committee believes that an ongoing evaluation work on the Energy Act should look at the balance point between the market and political governance when the market does not take its responsibility. The Christian People's Party believes that the State should have a right and a duty to ensure that new production is started, and we therefore look forward to the evaluation report, where this should be addressed. I have to take a little tour of the representative Torbjørn Andersen's challenge to the Christian People's Party and his interpretation of our proposal. This interpretation is far from as the Christian People's Party sees it. This proposal does not open up to the major hydroelectric installations. It opens up, as today's legislation, for gas power plants, but then with CO2 management. And for the Christian People's Party, and I really believe in a total expansion, environmental and cultural considerations should continue to be given great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e889	In the opinion of the Left, the Energy Act has largely worked well. It has made good use of resources, and one of the results is that one has had sustained low prices — so low prices over time that it has not resulted in sinful new expansion, new production, nor has it been profitable enough to save. The left agrees that it is important to have new energy production. There are essentially two possibilities to trigger it. One is to use the pricing mechanism, the charging policy. There has been no great pressure in this House. The second option is aid schemes capable of triggering renewable energy production. There it is said very well, but we are left with a proposal from the Government that park more renewable projects than it puts into practice. In this area, there is no need to investigate anything in relation to the Energy Act; it is just to put in place a support regime that makes it attractive to deploy renewable energy. The left agrees that in a normal year Norway should be an exporter of energy, not an importer. There is also another factor that I am concerned with focusing on in connection with a discussion on security of supply, and that is the great potential for saving that exists. In the EU, an ambitious energy saving target has now been set. For example, it should. there is no major problem in Norway, if you would like, to lock up consumption at the current level for five years to come. It, combined with increased new renewable energy production, would provide a much larger space for action than it has today. As I said, it is not a difficult solution that has been explored in the context of the Energy Act. It is to facilitate a support regime, a policy approach, which makes saving more attractive, more attractive to trigger new renewable energy production. The security of supply issues addressed by proposers may provide a basis for consideration in the context of the review of the Energy Act. I do not expect any major changes from the review that the Government is currently having, even though many point to problems and seem to create a expectation that they will be met in the context of this review. But in some areas it may well be worth reflecting more closely on whether adjustments may be needed. One of these areas could be one of these in connection with the power failure in the municipality of Steigen, a problem that Ivar Kristiansen was also facing, where they were without electricity for many days. There may be a basis for reviewing the post-event experience to see whether there is a need to make operational changes that ensure the maintenance and stability of the network. Because there is a major challenge that there is a need for a major replacement of the supply network of Norwegian transmission system companies in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e904	I am pleased that there is a unanimous committee behind the Government's view of waiting for the evaluation of the issues dealt with here, until we get the evaluation of the Energy Act, an evaluation that will otherwise be quite much wider than just focusing on an evaluation of the Energy Act, but will address a number of other factors as well. I will take the Committee's request with me in the further work. The aim of ensuring new production is one of the themes that will be at the heart of the current work – new production and security of supply. Because I am concerned that we are going to reduce the vulnerability of the Norwegian power supply. This means that we have to make ourselves less dependent on the weather gods, on which Torbjørn Andersen was involved, by diversifying the energy supply and not bet as unilaterally on hydropower as we have done. We need to increase the production of renewable energy and of gas power with CO2 management. This is why the Government is spending considerable amounts both on developing CO2 management technologies, which we will be discussing next time, and on renewable energy production. In addition, energy conversion and the use of heat are an important field of activity, and not least that of Gunnar Kvassheim, namely energy saving and energy efficiency improvement, which is one of the areas where there is a high potential, and we have not least been documented by the work that Enova is doing, where relatively modest subsidies trigger great energy efficiency improvements, especially in industry. It is also necessary to provide for good capacity for exchanges with neighbouring countries, so that we also reduce the vulnerability of river basins in years to come. Then more people have been involved in the situation around the network. It's also one of the themes that concerns me. We have, through changes to the network tariff regime, provided incentives for investment in maintenance and reinvestment in networks. It is absolutely necessary not only to think about costs and competition in the network, but also to facilitate that we have the most secure energy supply and the most secure transmission system possible. In addition, there is a measure for the Government to avoid an unacceptable level of power prices. Several people have had to deal with both the situation in Steigen and the situation we had in the South. Of course, it is a great regret that you get situations where you stay as long without electricity as Værøy and Røst stayed last year, and as Steigen stayed this year. But I think we have to admit that we live in a hard country with long distances and long transfer connections, where we can never guard 100 pst. against the kind of thing happening. It's important to have a readiness to reduce the power cuts as much as it can at all, but to get completely out of it we can't. One of the steps taken by the Government is to amend the law on network charging, which is to ensure reinvestment, secure maintenance and secure preparedness in the best possible way. We will also receive a report on what happened in Steigen, and will – as has been asked here – go into the situation that arose there. Ivar Kristiansen also mentioned the situation on Røst, Værøy and Train. It is not primarily security of supply. There is an increased consumption that has led to the need for increased power supply to these island communities. In principle, it is the responsibility of the supplier to ensure that a society has access to the power requested, and in this case the local and regional e-works. Then we have seen – and this is a case that was also presented to the previous government, and as we know, the situation is the same today as it was under the previous government – that in some cases the cost of getting this out will be so great that it can be unmanageable for the small communities that it concerns. That's why we have an assessment of how we can set up arrangements to deal with exactly the kind of situations we're in here and how the state can help to solve these kinds of situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e929	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e932	I think I'm going to draw attention to the fact that in seven of the last eleven years, Norway has been totally dependent on having a net power import from mainly the Nordic power market, which we have been offered. So Norway is no longer self-sufficient in electrical energy, even in what we call a ‘normal year’ of rainfall. I would like the Council of State to be clear that the strategy and objective of Norwegian security of supply and balance of power should not be to add thicker cables to Europe and to the rest of the Nordic system, but it should be based on a sufficiently dimensioned national power generation in Norway that enables us to tackle, for example. dry year and year with a very cold climate that requires a high energy supply in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e937	The government's policy is based on being self-sufficient in electricity in a normal year. Therefore, it is an objective to increase production, reduce consumption and convert energy. As I also said in my main post, a major part of the strategy is to diversify energy supply, so that we become less dependent on rainfall than we have been, by using other energy sources, such as bioenergy for heating and gas power with CO2 management at the bottom load, thereby ensuring that the energy supply becomes less vulnerable than it has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e946	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e949	Energy policy engages. When the sun and the drought enter, when the cold bites, when the water reservoirs dry out, when the power line to the rest of the world fails, when the nuclear power plants abroad are shut down, then there is too little flow speculating, and the prices sink in the weather. Then, as politicians, we get phones from worried people who are afraid of power crisis and high power bills. And we meet the demand: now you have to make the flow cheaper, or now you have to produce more. I discover that I have to give the same answers as the Minister of Energy now, and we both seem perhaps a little paralysed and a little daring. For Stortingen, the system we have today cannot increase the power output or control the power prices. And the last thing – to make it absolutely clear – I don't think we should do either. But my voters require me to have a solution as a staging representative. In Norway, we're used to having enough cheap electric current. We use electricity for heating in the houses. It is a common and personal responsibility not to use unnecessary energy, but many have no other means of heating. They're in the power trap. I believe that it is also a political responsibility, that it is a Community responsibility to ensure the supply and adequate generation of electricity. In public debate, there are so many simple solutions, and a rhetoric is used that does not always hold. The most important tool we can have is a good energy law. In many ways, the Energy Act works well. But in the Christian People's Party, we have come to the conclusion that today's energy law is a substitute for the state power to intervene early enough to avoid doubt about security of supply. The law does not place the responsibility clearly enough on the Government today to ensure new power generation. Today's energy law does not have enough balance between political governance and market-based solutions to meet today's needs of our society to the power system. It is this recognition that lies behind the proposal of the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party will clarify the responsibility for security of supply and will give the State the right and duty to ensure that new generation of power will come about in cases where the market does not generate sufficient power generation. I am pleased that a joint committee asks the Government to review this proposal in the context of the evaluation of the Energy Act. Hopefully, this evaluation will give us politicians some better answers when our voters demand our action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e960	This has been a debate that has really brought little new into the world, and so it's probably just been wasted time, because most people express themselves as if they agree on what is happening. I want to grasp what Terje Aasland said in his post. He creates enemies where no enemies exist, just to make himself look better and the others like bad. But there is no party on the Stortinget that has ever argued that you should have an anarchy system within the power market. It is not true that all parties other than the Working Party or the Red-Greens believe that the power market should be complete without any laws or regulations to deal with. Then it's a little silly to keep an article where one of the closest future is that the other parts have finally seen the light. I remind Terje Aasland that in the last period the Progress Party has made more proposals to make it clear that the State is responsible for security of supply. So this is not a new theme presented by the Christian People's Party, although it is very important that we continue to discuss it. But then the Labour Party actually voted against. The Workers' Party has been a precursor to Norwegian energy policy, both when they are in government and when they are not in government. Among other things, Jens Stoltenberg's words that the time for the large hydroelectric expansions has passed have been seen as a premise for the energy policy that its governments have followed, including this one. We also see that the scrapping of the red-green batches made of green certificates will appear to be a premise for renewable investment for a long time to come. The problem in Norwegian energy supply has not been a lack of projects, but lack of political permission to expand the projects. 4 TWh with new hydropower is shredded. The first thing that the red-green government did was scrape 1.5 TWh with force from the tissue. When this project gets no, one can wonder where everyone who celebrates Document No. The 8 proposal that the state should be able to impose power build-up, then find the power projects, because we find hardly better power projects than exactly the Wefsna. So there's also a lot of talk about how great it's going to be with an evaluation of the Energy Act, and everyone is looking forward to it coming. Yeah, when's it coming? It's been used as an argument in a year and a half now from the red-greens that now we're going to evaluate the Energy Act and get the power system organized. Will that evaluation come during this period? No one says anything about it. When can we expect something to happen? The government now acts as a clean administration without will or ability to accelerate anything of solutions, and it's quite tragic. It's a little interesting when you talk about an evaluation of the energy law, that the representative Ola Borten Moe in the class struggle last year even said that there will finally be an evaluation of the energy law, it has existed for 15 years now. Has he already forgotten that the Bondevik II government evaluated the Energy Act and presented the evaluation in the revised budget in May 2005, i.e. just before the elections? The Labour Party and the Centre did not have a single comment on that evaluation. Where does one expect the new, great revolutions to come now? It would have been very nice if there were any comments on this from the red-green ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e977	First of all, I have to say that my purpose was not to create enemies where there are no enemies. On the contrary, my intention was to stress that in this room there is now a concerted majority of large-scale figures that actually see the importance of the evaluation to be carried out by the Energy Act, precisely in order to try to have it analysed and, if necessary, to make corrections in connection with a lack of triggered investment commitment from 1990 until now. That recognition is in this room, and it's actually a new confession, as I register it. I think that is a good signal for the further work and for the further assessments to be made. The evaluation notified by the Council of State shall be carried out and any changes shall be made during that period. Then we get back to what has to be done. There's no doubt that we have some challenges. Most of it works well, but we have some challenges in this area. I think the debate here has been good, but I think it is actually a little regrettable that the Progress Party is trying to create a confrontation in this debate. I recognise that the Progress Party uses strong words in the debate here. They make it – as usual – as if we are balancing on the brink of an energy crisis every year. In fact, in 2005 we exported 12 TWh, and in 2006 we balanced 0.7 TWh. If so per. definition is an energy crisis, I think the energy crisis actually exists in a stronger monn in the Progress Party than in the Norwegian society. But then it's created that image, and we're obviously vulnerable, and we have to do something about this. That is what the debate has been about, and I think that the evaluation will be a good tool. It's actually so that there's no political invulnerability in this room. Many, and many, concessions have been promoted, both for hydroelectric power development and for new gas power plants. The problem is that the investment willingness has not been present. One has not had a price level that has triggered investment. That's the main problem related to the situation we're up against. To call it political invulnerability must, of course, be in recognition of the fact that political skill actually arises by setting all the requirements for the environment, nature intervention, storage problems, etc. to the side. It is now politically viable in terms of energy issues, according to the definition and assessments of the Progress Party. I'm sorry about that attitude, and I actually didn't think it was there either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e991	It became a bit pathetic to hear the representative from the Workers' Party, Terje Aasland, stand here and present it as if the country were not balancing on the edge of a power crisis. That's actually what has been the reality both before this winter and some years earlier. In seven of the last 11 years, power imports/export accounts indicate that Norway has been a net importer of electrical energy from our neighbouring country. In my view, the Energy Act has been somewhat positive and correct. With regard to this evaluation, I have some problems seeing what major changes had to come out of it. As a result of the failure of the Energy Act to function according to its intentions, as was believed and hoped when it was adopted in 1990 and introduced in 1991, it is, of course, that one has not been able to generate enough new projects. So we can say that the market demand side has worked, but in terms of the supply side, politicians have – among other things. in this room – the blame for the failure of the 1990 Energy Act to function according to the intentions. Hydropower projects on the inside of 4 TWh have been shown to have been stopped or reduced by collapse and government. In terms of political intervention in the Energy Act, at least we from the Progress Party will blame the bulk of the blame for the fact that the Energy Act has not worked according to its purpose, precisely because large numbers and governments have not followed up on the intentions of the Energy Act. I'm sorry. I am also a little surprised by these hateful or harsh outbursts against the Energy Policy of the Progress Party. For my part, I can say that at least in the two years I have been on the Energy and Environment Committee, the Progress Party has made a number of proposals – for which we have not received support from the Workers' Party – precisely to improve the energy balance in Norway and to strengthen the security of electricity supply in Norway. It is just a pity that the Progress Party has not received support for all these good proposals. On this basis, I find it very strange that we are under attack by the Workers' Party, who have just agreed to vote on a number of proposals. We remember an additional protection plan a few years ago, where 7.5 TWh was actually protected – and the Labour Party was involved – against the votes of the Advance Party. We can refer to many hydropower projects that the Workers' Party has opposed, but for which the Progress Party has been. That is why it is strange that this is now coming from the representative of Aasland.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1002	I am very happy to hear from Terje Aasland that we have no supply problem in Norway, that the power crisis has been cancelled, that this is going to go bad, and that the government has full control. I'm glad to hear this. I hope that Terje Aasland will also send that message up to workers' party-driven Moors and Romsdals, South-Trundelags and North-Trundelags. The county politicians of Aasland are not as safe as he is, so they need to get the message. The industry in the same countries also needs to be informed that the power crisis has been cancelled and that the supply situation is quite straightforward. Terje Aasland also refers to a number of reservations that make it impossible to build gas power plants. These reservations did not show Stoltenberg when, in his May 1 speech in the Nord-Trøndelag, he told the residents there that now it was just to stick the spade in the ground, now it was time to start building a gas power plant. It could have done something about the security of supply in central Norway. But today there are many reservations from Aasland. I expect that he will explain why he has so many reservations, reservations that Stoltenberg did not take on 1 May last year. So the government's only act in this matter is to force a small municipality in Hordaland, the municipality of Austevoll, to accept the development of a wind farm. That's what the government is doing to resolve the power situation and remedy the power deficit in Central Norway and the West, and it's not a policy the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1011	I haven't called off any energy crisis. I've just tried to focus on the fact that in 2005 we exported 12 TWh, in 2006 we went roughly in balance, and that maybe the energy crisis is created more from this pulpit than out in real life. But I have also stressed that we have a strained energy situation, and that we need to look at the possibilities. We've also done a lot of things. These include: granted some gas power plant concessions that have not triggered investments, with the exception of Kårstø. Then you're on the move now in Mongstad, thanks to this government. Other concessions have also been granted, as mentioned above, which have not been followed up by investment measures. It's primarily about the price level. So I think it's a bad claim to say that the majority has not followed up on the intentions of the Energy Act. That's actually what we've done. The main intention of the Energy Act was to have a market that worked and to exploit the investments that were already there. That was the main intention. The main intention of the Energy Act is not what the Progress Party and Torbjørn Andersen are saying from this pulpit. The reason for the Energy Act was not to set aside any type of regulation in terms of protection or environmental considerations, etc. No, on the contrary, a system that would initially exploit investments already made and ensure that the market would trigger new investments. So now it turns out that it doesn't work properly in terms of security of supply. And then I'm glad that we're in agreement on the way that's going on, and that there are things that should possibly be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1020	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2149]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1056	Let me first clarify the starting point for this interpolation. It is not meant to fight against the development of a CO2 value chain, nor CO2 management in general. I would like to stress that the Progress Party in its 2007 Alternative State Budget actually proposed to allocate funds to get the projects going both on the Tjeldbergodden and on Mongstad. We record that no other parties added money to this, despite the fact that Mongstad is going to be the moon landing to the Government. The Progress Party has also proposed in Document No. Eight proposals for the state to be responsible for the CO2 value chain. That, too, was the vote of the Red-Green parties on the Stortinget. The Party welcomes the possibility of using CO2 for increased oil extraction. The Premise of the Advance Party has thus been put in place. The reason why we wanted a debate on the CO2 clean-up project at Kårstø is that, as the Government has put it, the project does not provide much benefit compared to the huge costs. Kårstø is not justified by arguments about technology development, CO2 reductions or cost-effectiveness. I record that many from the research environments and the energy industry have publicly stated that Kårstø is a blind lead in this work. So let's think about the reality first. Is Kårstø a significant climate action, as some say? At best, Kårstø clean-up will reduce CO2 emissions by 1 million tonnes, given that the gas power plant is running around 24 hours a year, and that the clean-up is quite efficient. The Institute of Energy Technology has now said that even with effective cleaning, there will be emissions of approx. 200000 tonnes. Given the global emissions of 31 billion tonnes of CO2 annually, the emissions from Kårstø are negligible in the global context. In addition, clean-up with the technology put up by the Government will produce around 3000 tonnes of problem waste in the form of amino compounds. So there's no climate action that matters. At least there is nothing that will satisfy anything in relation to the Kyoto agreement. Is it, then, a technology development project? If Kårstø was actually broken through, Mongstad wouldn't be described as the moon landing. Ergo: The government itself has realized that Kårstø is no breakthrough. In the Question Time on 18 October last year, the Minister for Energy, Mr Enoxsen, said that: ‘On Kårstø, the Government takes full and complete responsibility based on today’s expensive technology, which is a technology that will be used only in very few cases.’ Ergo: The government itself admits that the project will not be suitable for being copied very many places. The Director of the Institute of Energy Engineering stated to the Government during this consultation that full scale clean-up of today’s technology ‘will not bring significant innovation gains’. The technology put up on Kårstø has not been tested on this scale and has to be scaled up at least ten times in relation to the largest plants today. A normal procedure will then be a step-by-step approach, with pilots for demonstration and verification of technology — and then scaling up. The first two steps jump the government into the scheme they have presented. It is also a recognition that Norwegian suppliers are unable to deliver to a full cleaning facility at Kårstø in relation to the plans of the Government. It is doubtful whether they will be able to deliver anything at all before Mongstad in 2014. Reference is made to Aker Kværner's offer of a pilot project. There is therefore no Norwegian competence to cover the CO2 project on Kårstø, nor if a driver is driving it at all planned locations – Tjeldbergodden, Mongstad and Kårstø. Thus, the government’s policy will be a pure subsidy to foreign suppliers of CO2 clean technologies, for example: Fluor and Mitsubishi, who have also not built any full-scale facilities anywhere in the world. After what I have been told, Mitsubishi has some plants that are around 30 MWh, and it is quite far up to a plant of 420 MWh, which is planned at Kårstø. So technology development won't be particularly in place on Kårstø, as the government adds. Is that, then, a cost-effective climate action? Yes, with a project of 5 billion kroner plus/minus 40 p.p., with operating costs of 370 million. kr per year, one receives a cost of action per year. tonnes of CO2 purified at approximately 700 kroner per year. tonnes, given that the installation is in operation at 100 pst. of the year. On the other hand, if you reduce the operating time to 5,000 hours per year, you're up to 1000 kroner per year. tonnes. If you go down to 25 pst. Operating time in the year, which is very likely, depending on gas prices, is talking about a climate action with a price of NOK 2 200 per year. tonnes. Based on 700 kroner per day. However, tonnes, to be optimistic, are at least 10 times more expensive than alternative CO2 abatement measures. In addition, the CO2 treatment uses approx. 20 pst. of the production of energy. So you get a reduction in power from 420 to 350 MWh. It's an energy loss equivalent to the production of Smøla wind farm every year. Point Carbon, one of the companies involved in the quota trade, can guarantee that they can buy quality-secured climate allowances at a tenth of the price compared to what is planned at Kårstø. The price of Kårstø is therefore approx. 15 times today's allowance price. If one is to benefit from Kårstø technology, as a source of income by selling it to other countries, it must be expected that the other countries will say that this is a cost-effective technology. I think there are very few countries, at least per. today, which has said that they are willing to implement climate action at all costs. We are looking at how effective and comprehensive quota purchases are in some EU countries. There is no reason to believe that such countries as China will worry about cleaning their CO2 emissions until they have at least started to clean up the air in their big cities. A trip in Shanghai I think illustrates the problem. I think there are very few Chinese people who want to accept that you clean CO2 before cleaning sulphur emissions. Then there is no reason to believe that China and other countries that would need it would spend money buying a single copy of the Kårstø plant. Petoro investigated 12 current CO2 value chains in 2006. Kjell Pedersen in Petoro says to Stavanger Aftenblad on August 10, 2006: ‘Collection of CO2 on Kårstø by 2009 must not become a more important objective than to establish the first full value chain for CO2’. [[...]] This is supported by Brian Bjordal in Gassco. Hydro-shef Eivind Reiten spoke strongly critically about the focus on the deadline in the Norwegian CO2 debate. He says to Technical Weekly No. 36/06: ‘The perspective must be what Norway can contribute, instead of fighting about the dates for when cleaning can be in place.’ And to the Evening Post on September 11th, Reten says: ‘We must not paint ourselves into a corner where we are forced into solutions such as investing in non-sustainable sewage treatment plants, instead of making a thorough effort on the big technology leap I think we will get to.’ On 9 October 2006, Svein Sundsbø from Norsk Industrie stated that Kårstø cleaning should be iced and that the funds should be spent on the gas power project in Central Norway, where CO2 can be used as pressure support in the Draugen field and also solved the power crisis. In other words, the project is not convincingly good. In other cases where there are billions of investments, the Storting spends a long time getting into all the facts to know what the benefits are, what the costs are, and what the risks are. So at Stortinget, we have in a couple of hours, and with two-sided mentions in the expansion proposition of the Oil and Energy Department on the budget, initially allocated 720 million. kr for CO2 cleaning on Kårstø. Then the NVE came a little later and said that the price tag was 5 billion kroner. When we discussed the budget, the Progress Party asked a number of questions to the Minister for Oil and Energy: How much will this cost? What are the operating costs? What kind of technology are you going to use? How much CO2 do you expect to get cleaned? There was no clear answer to that. Nevertheless, the Storting went and granted so much money, without bearing in mind what the price tag will be at the end. This is bad craftsmanship from the Government, and it is bad craftsmanship from the Stortinget, which adopts such a big project, based on so little knowledge. It is not least irresponsible to use taxpayers' money. A project must be defended on the basis of dietary/benefit considerations, research and development etc. It's not an independent argument that it's written in the Soria Moria statement. Political compromise formulations in the Soria Moria Declaration do not bring technological solutions into place. In any case, the government should be grateful that they have now finally seen the challenges and have said that they will postpone clean-up from 2009 to 2011. Although SVs Hallgeir Langeland and others do not realize this, and say that CO2 cleaning is still going to take place in 2009, there is movement going on, and that is good. However, the link between the different CO2 projects is still lacking. Through Kårstø, many people in the research community fear that they can only forget about something that involves Norwegian competence, in Mongstad. It's when I hope to have a debate where the government shows that they're actually seeing the whole, that they're willing to postpone Kårstø so that they don't put the Tent Credits and Mongstad at risk, that they're looking at other possible projects, so that people who come up with the coal and gas power projects in the next few years, know what the framework conditions they have to deal with, that those like IFE, who are working on tying up CO2 gas with e.g. olivin or titanium-containing products, also enter the large research pot, and not to carry out Kårstø at any price.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1190	The government’s climate policy contains several elements and instruments, and is not based solely on CO2 capture. Regardless of the start-up of a full-scale CO2 treatment plant on Kårstø, the Government will ensure that Norway complies with its Kyoto obligations. As a significant energy nation, Norway has a unique opportunity and responsibility to ensure the cleanest possible energy production and to contribute to the reduction of global greenhouse gas emissions. This is an important background for the Government’s CO2 management objectives. By focusing on technology development and concentrating on reducing carbon capture costs, CO2 capture and storage could be a global climate action. The IEA estimates that CO2 capture and storage can be between 20 and 28 pst. of total global CO2 savings by 2050. The EU's energy package, which was presented on 10 January of this year, aims at achieving a full scale capture of CO2 from 2020. The EU is committed to increasing its commitment to research and construction of 10-to-12 demonstration installations for the capture of CO2 from coal and gas power plants before 2015. With Mongstad Step 1, Norway is thus several years ahead of the EU. The government's decision to cooperate with Statoil to implement two-step capture and storage of CO2 on Mongstad is a milestone. The State and a commercial company have never previously entered into such mutually committed cooperation. In the context of Step 1, a technology company will be set up to own and operate test facilities for the qualification and development of technologies and solutions for the capture of CO2. The aim is to develop solutions that can reduce costs and technical and economic risks associated with full scale CO2 capture. This allows us to contribute to a reduction in costs sufficient to make capture and storage an attractive global climate action. If we achieve this, Norway will have made a significant contribution to the fight against global climate change. There has been a significant development in CO2 management since the Soria Moria declaration was written. Statoil and Shell have launched the ‘Halten CO2 project’. Gassco, Gassnova and Petoro have submitted a report showing that it is difficult to identify positive-current CO2 chains, Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, NVE, has produced a report on CO2 management at Kårstø, and, as mentioned, the Government has cooperated with Statoil on the full-scale capture of CO2 in two steps at Mongstad. As a follow-up to the objective of the Soria Moria declaration, I commissioned the NVE in 2006 to start the pre-projecting of a CO2 management plant on Kårstø. The NVE’s report on the project was delivered in December 2006. This report showed, among other things: – as has already been said – start-up in 2009 is not realistic, even if a very high level of risk and a shy economic environment is required. The start-up of the installation may be possible at the earliest by the end of 2011/2012. The costs of a full-scale capture facility, transport and storage included will be in the order of DKK 5 billion in investment and SEK 370 million. kr in annual operating costs. The cost of action depends, of course, on – and varies greatly with – the operating time of the power plant and the capture plant. The decisions of Soria Moria were based on the information you had at that time, and reflect the Government's objectives. The target was 2009. Unfortunately, the NVE's thorough planning shows that this is possible at the earliest by the end of 2011/2012. In the light of the NVE report, the Government invited a consultation to be held on 26 January 2007. I take with me the recordings from the consultation in the further work on the establishment of a fishing facility on Kårstø. All input from this consultation is available on the Ministry of Oil and Energy’s website. The government insists that the CO2 emissions from the gas power plant at Kårstø are to be cleaned, but we need to have a degree of humility in order for a full scale capture plant not to have been built in the past. There is a high risk and high cost of being first. Good project management and good processes are therefore essential for success. The government is now working to get this in place. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is concluding a contract with a project manager for the establishment of the fishing facility. The project manager will follow up NVE's work on the pre-projecting of a catchment facility on Kårstø. The government will later appropriately report back to Stortinget on further plans and progress for CO2 management at Kårstø. An updated budget allocation for the current year will be presented in the revised national budget. In 2006, the Ministry of Oil and Energy commissioned Gassco, Gassnova, NVE and the Oil Directorate to assess possible transport and disposal solutions in which CO2 from Kårstø and Mongstad are seen in the context. The project will run until 1 March 2008 and shall form the basis for the decision of the authorities on the choice of the means of transport and disposal. Timetables and cost estimates will be submitted according to the progress plan in June 2007. It's set at $30 million. for this work in 2007. So Kårstø and Mongstad are seen in context. Work planning is based on the preliminary assumption that 100 000 tonnes of CO2 from Mongstad will be handled in October 2010 and that the volume of CO2 from Kårstø will be able to be transported from the end of 2011/2012. The Government will also, in an appropriate manner, report back to the Storting on further plans and progress for the transport and disposal of CO2. Three CO2 management projects are currently planned in Norway: Mongstad steps 1 and 2, Halten CO2 and Kårstø. I refer you to St.prp. No 49 for 2006-2007, which was submitted last Friday. The Government commits to establish a State undertaking to protect the interests of the State in CO2 management projects. The State enterprise will maintain technology development in Mongstad, a full-scale plant on Kårstø and transport and disposal of CO2 from both Mongstad and Kårstø. It is a clear wish that Norwegian CO2 management efforts should contribute to Norwegian industry building up the necessary skills and becoming competitive with regard to low-carbon technologies. Today, there are too few suppliers of CO2 handling facilities to find real competition in the market. A key instrument for reducing fishing costs is effective competition. If Norwegian industry is prepared to compete in this competition, large market opportunities will also open up internationally. There is another issue that needs to be addressed – the issue of State aid to Mongstad and Kårstø. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is in dialogue with ESA and various EU Directorates on this matter. Finally, being first out costs. Being first out of full-scale cleaning involves economic risk in the form of exceedances. But it is not that full-scale cleaning on Kårstø does not have a learning effect on future projects. It's been fixed in the NVE's report. It was clearly also established in the consultation that the Kårstø facility will have a learning effect. Installations of this magnitude have never been established in the past. It is quite obvious that the establishment of a full-scale sewage treatment plant on Kårstø will give us a learning effect that we will also be able to have with us in the technology development work done on Mongstad. The government sees the two projects in the context of the transport and landfill of CO2 and also of the technology development to take place, which will reduce costs. We will develop a competitive technology that will be applied far wider than a few gas power projects in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1324	I am impressed by how gallant the Minister of Energy manages to refer to 2011/2012 as a target for Kårstø – despite what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. Camel pissing has obviously become common in the government quarter. It's a straightforward historical review given by the Council of State. There are many objectives mentioned that have not been challenged by the undersigned in any way — nor by others. The question I tried to raise is whether the government's proposal for implementation makes sense. The Council of State mentions a lot about Mongstad, but the question is, will one still add up to a full-scale facility worth NOK 5 billion, plus/minus – with operating costs of SEK 370 million. kr in the year – to be put in place, regardless of whether Kårstø becomes a base load facility or not? I hope the Council of State can confirm it very clearly, so that Hallgeir Langeland also understands the answer. The Minister of Energy points out that a lot has happened with regard to CO2 since the Soria Moria statement was written. There's no doubt about it. And it's great if the Minister of Energy adjusts the course afterwards – and gets the whole government involved. The question concerning Kårstø is: Will a full-scale plant be implemented in 2011/2012 – if that is what the Council of State said – even if it means that no Norwegian company will be able to deliver a full-scale plant? Ergo, should a company subsidise foreign suppliers? It will mean a competitor of Mongstad technology if it is realised in 2014 – a competitor who has been on the world market for at least two years before Mongstad comes into operation. And how will other gas and coal projects be treated? Will they have the same framework conditions as Mongstad and the same support from the State? Or has the government agreed that Kårstø and Mongstad will be realized at almost any cost, while all others who come with the project will be required to clean up CO2 from day one, but not one crown in support? The Council of State said that at the government consultation it was unequivocally established that Kårstø would have a learning effect. For God's sake, I hope a teacher does a little bit when one spends NOK 5 billion on a plant. However, Kjell Bendiksen of the Institute of Energy Technology clearly states that a full-scale Kårstø sewage treatment plant based on current technology will not provide a significant innovation gain, that technology is very energy-intensive and results in a significant reduction in the efficiency of the power plant. That was his input according to a note he handed out. Then it is not unambiguous, as the Council of State said. When you talk about a whole here, it's not just to see Mongstad and Kårstø in context, and also the Tent Credit, but it's to show all the other good CO2 projects that exist. I mentioned IFE's investment in olive oil and perfume, but I also want to mention EnPro, who is working on converting seawater into agricultural water. The oil company Shell was recently out in the media and said they were researching how to get CO2 gas into bricks. Such things can be at least as interesting as CO2 cleaning on Kårstø to NOK 5 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1358	The first and most important prerequisite for the industrial use of CO2, for which we have received several examples, is that CO2 is actually available. Purifying CO2 from gas power plants will mean industrial opportunities that we will of course be able to look at and hopefully put into practice. It's too early to say what kind of applications there are. The project to e.g. Industrial power More related to Hustad Marble is just such an industrial project aimed at using CO2 for industrial purposes. However, it is not possible without first being willing to take the costs of developing CO2 management facilities, and so getting CO2, which can be used for such purposes in the next round. Kårstø won't be a competitor to Mongstad. As I have said, in the government's work, these two facilities are set up to complement each other, have transfer value, and where transport/deposit is to be seen in the context. We also include this in the same organization in order to get spin-off as far as possible, and in order to get cost reduction measures both places as far as it can be done. We assess from the Government's side how we can best contribute to the development of Norwegian technology. Suppliers have built CO2 treatment plants for many years on a much smaller scale than those on Kårstø, Mongstad and Tjeldbergodden. But Norwegian companies don't have qualified technology. Aker Kværner has come quite far in his Just Catch project. Of course, it is a goal for the Government to contribute to the competitiveness of Norwegian technology to have a place internationally in future clean-up projects. So Ketil Solvik-Olsen asked how the Government will handle other projects that had to come up, both in terms of gas power and coal power. The answer to this is primarily in the Soria Moria declaration. What we've said in the Soria Moria statement is that for the concessions that are already given, we won't change the assumption. In fact, that also applies to Forest, as opposed to what was tried to give the impression in the previous debate. The concession at Skogn stands firm. We will contribute to CO2 management there as well. In the case of new concessions, they shall be based on CO2 management. What financial support, if any, will be given to new projects, we will take from project to project, and we will see what can be possible under State aid legislation. We'll get back to that when the concrete projects show up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1397	Norway is in a serious climate change situation. There's no doubt about it. It takes this government over. We're assuming that we want to get out approx. 60 million. tonnes of CO2 in 2010. If we look at the Kyoto agreement, to which all parties, except the Progress Party, have joined, emissions will exceed the 1990 level plus 1 pst, which is our starting point, that is. 50.3 million. tonnes. That's almost 10 million. tons more than what it's added up to there. Natural power plants on Kårstø will release approx. 1.25 million. tonnes of CO2 with 8,000 hours of operation. Obviously, we have a formidable task ahead of us when we see this in connection with other emissions on the base. This we have to take seriously, this we have to take over. We can't do like the Progress Party, and ignore that we have great challenges here. In our assessments, we focus on the advice of different experts in this context, not just advice from a one-sided expert group. We also address what the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has emphatically stated, namely the challenges ahead of us. We fully support the global international agreements, and the Kyoto agreement is just such an agreement. The world needs more agreements, not fewer, to meet the major challenges. We need to have international driving rules. We can't buy ourselves one-sidedly by buying allowances out. We have to take a considerable amount of domestic, and this obliges. I say this initially in connection with the interpellation of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, which concerns cleaning on Kårstø, because when I hear this representative of the largest opposition party, I get confused to those degrees – and I don't think it's just me. But I can't get a hold of it. Where will the Progress Party? Ketil Solvik-Olsen argues unilaterally for an economic case on Kårstø. Then he goes on to say that they don't intend to go to the fight against the CO2 chain. No, no, no, no, no, He goes on to say that Kårstø is a dead end. All right. They are the trailers of the Kyoto Agreement. All right. What did the government of the Advance Party do? Where will the Progress Party? Therefore, this is in many ways an economic calculation made by Ketil Solvik-Olsen of the Kårstø project. Yeah, we're going to have that with us. But the government has invested almost $1 billion this year to seize the opportunity to create a value chain, which is completely new in Norway and the world. Then, as a nation, we must also use public funds to get this going and to meet the major challenge, namely the pollution problem for future generations. But I notice that the largest opposition party has no policy in this area, for one day they say one thing, the next day they say something else. I also have to refer to the excellent interpellant, which says the following: ‘The Kyoto Agreement regulates greenhouse gas emissions during the 2008-2012 contract period. Norway is unlikely to meet its obligations without significant purchases of allowances from the rest of the world.» When did the Progress Party join the Kyoto Agreement to guide Norway? It is an industrially political great promise that we are now taking. It must also be seen in the context of Mongstad, the Tent Goods etc. It has an industrial potential in itself that is formidable, not only for the nation, but also internationally. The landfill systems shall be viewed in a context. Then Kårstø will be there too. We're taking the step here, we're doing a job on behalf of the nation to actually meet the big challenges. It must be done in interaction by the state and the builder.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1424	There is no doubt that this issue is also about how we will be able to meet our Kyoto commitments in the future, how we can facilitate meeting perhaps the greatest challenge of our time, not least because global climate change is going to meet us – perhaps first, and most brutally and most intensely. Interpellanten, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, said that the cost of action would be at least 700 kroner per person. tonnes of CO2 that it is up to 10 times higher than the price level of international climate action permitted by the Kyoto Agreement, and that the Kårstø funds ‘will provide far greater benefits on the use of environmental measures abroad or technology development in Norway’. I understand the reasoning, but I very much disagree with the conclusions. At the same time, I just want to say, when the interpellant refers to expert opinions, that it is, as I have seen it, a little selective when the Progress Party chooses to listen to experts. It is clear that this will be expensive, and there is no one here in this room who has been authorised to issue blank cheques – nor in this area. Let me just say that I understand the interpellant in one area, and that is that if the best possible solution conflicts with the fastest possible solution for full-scale CO2 capture, we have to choose the best possible solution. But Norway, as a nation, has earned a search warrant. Without comparison with any other country in the world, we have served our search for oil and gas production. We've become a power of export. We are one of the largest oil exporters and also among the largest gas exporters in the world. Who else is better technologically? And anyway, who is better able to develop economic technology in this field than just Norway? I think it's a cardinal neglect if we fail in this area. Knowing that there are worse and more serious examples out there in the world – in China, for example, where one opens a coal-fired power plant every week – we have a commitment hanging over us that we must not turn our gaze away from. And I think we're making a mistake in relation to the reputation we're going to have as an environmental nation, as a technology nation, etc., if we're looking to ask ourselves the question: what can little Norway, please, contribute in this context? Well, if we're equiping ourselves to be able to develop a pilot in this area, we've done what we might be best able to do technologically and economically. I think in the future we will blame ourselves brutally if we turn away from this area. We can afford this. We have become hungry because of our oil and gas exports, and we also probably have technology nationally to develop what is needed to deal with and be at the forefront in order to manage the full-scale capture facilities for natural gas production. That is why this is an important matter. I don't want to be in this context primarily criticizing the Government for setting goals. But if it ends so that it stands in contrast to each other, to reach the best possible solution versus a fastest possible solution, I would think the government is able to navigate towards the best possible solution. The moon landing was used as an example, but I'm not sure the United States set a time target. And if you were in the vicinity of a time target, you didn't choose an Apollo solution to buy a Sputnik solution that could save time. We have to be in front here. We need to develop Norwegian technology, but we also need to assume the international commitment that we are at least economically best equipped and robust enough to assume.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1443	Let me first say with pleasure that the party of progress is the only party in opposition that has this position. We are delighted to see how the opposition can stand together as an alternative to this government when they do not agree on such an important field as climate and environment are. On 2 February 2007, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change presented its fourth main report. It removes any doubt that the climate turmoil is man-made. Norway’s high revenues based on oil and gas extraction give us a special responsibility to go ahead and implement climate-reducing measures. If we are to solve the climate problems, we need to implement measures in all sectors of society, both public, industrial and private. Norway needs to take responsibility for helping to reduce emissions in poor countries, and we need to implement measures nationally. I have noticed that the Progress Party will still not support the Kyoto agreement, the only international agreement that regulates global greenhouse gas emissions. I am therefore not surprised that the same party is now proposing to scrape the cleaning of the gas power plant at Kårstø. The Soria Moria Declaration states the following about sewage treatment plants on Kårstø: ‘The government will ensure that work is started on establishing a full scale CO2 removal plant on Kårstø and will contribute financially to this. The objective is to remove CO2 by 2009». The NVE has now submitted a comprehensive report which unfortunately shows that it is not possible to carry out clean-up before 2011/2012. The government had a separate consultation where this report was presented on 26 January 2007. The NVE Director who presented the report during the consultation underlined that the construction of a full scale sewage treatment plant on Kårstø would make a significant contribution to the development of new CO2 cleaning technologies and that this project could well be carried out in parallel with the Mongstad clean-up facility. SV believes that further development of CO2 clean-up technologies is one of the most important contributions Norway can make to greenhouse gas cuts, both in Norway and internationally. The scaling up of existing clean-up technologies to the size planned for Kårstø will be of great importance in this context. In this context, it would be totally wrong to compare the costs of technological development with current quota prices. The government has already set aside 200 million. kr for the purchase of CO2 allowances, and Norway will continue to participate in this international trading of allowances. At the same time, it is important that we spend money on the development of new technologies that will in the long term contribute to major climate change reductions. The threat of climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. It's the rich part of the world that's created the climate problems. We must accept that the greatest growth in emissions will follow in developing countries. If we are to expect these countries to assume reduction obligations, then countries such as Norway must go ahead and show that it is possible to implement comprehensive measures. My main argument for climate change reduction tends to be as follows: Reducing CO2 emissions and cleaning and landfilling can be the biggest project of solidarity and peace in our time globally, a project in which we think globally and act locally. Our actions locally will primarily benefit ourselves, locally at home, but at the same time they will contribute to the consequences of climate emissions, such as drought, floods, crop destruction, hunger, lack of water and war because of this, refugee flows, etc. gets smaller. Reducing greenhouse gases at home can become a cheek egg – we increase our own quality of life, we show solidarity with the Third World in practice, and we ease the pressure on our own borders. Purification of the gas power plant at Kårstø is an important climate action in this context. I ask the Council of State to immediately set up a project team so that the work can be intensified.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1483	This interpellation is felt to me as a repetition of the budgetary procedure before Christmas. The Progress Party then presented the views of the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, today. This is how the Progress Party continues its review practice here in Stortinget – they repeat their own negative proposals as soon as the report has dried up. It is hardly a political new crime. But it's a new and important moment that's come since the last time. The NVE report has changed the timetable of the Government. The report says that the Soria Moria statement is unrealistic at this point. This implies that government parties must break the declaration at the point mentioned as one of the most important environmental victories. What will be the consequence if the Government postpones the CO2 cleaning on Kårstø? Well, the consequence will be that one will continue new years with large CO2 emissions from a new gaseous power plant. The Kårstø plant will, as you know, release approx. 1.3 million tonnes of CO2 per year, or emissions equivalent to over 400000 Subaru cars per year. Thus, the Workers' Party and the Advance Party will have an impact on their gas energy policy from the previous ageing period. For the Christian People's Party, it has always been important to develop technology for CO2 management. It was so important that the Christian People's Party rejected continued government responsibility as the majority of the population did not confirm that the pollution law would continue to apply to gas power plants. Now this law has not been amended, but the workers' party government gave concession to gas power plants without CO2 management, and Kårstø was one of them. Now, natural power builds its gas power plant, and in October this year it can start up. Before Christmas, the Christian People's Party supported the government's proposal to grant 700 million. kr for CO2 handling solutions on Kårstø. We did that because we felt the urgency to get CO2 management. The government has spent almost a year and a half in this work, which has resulted in a proposal for a postponement. The Progress Party uses the argument that CO2 management at Kårstø is poor use of money. Buy allowances abroad and wait for Mongstad and the Tent Goods! Mongstad will give us the opportunity to discuss later, but the Christian People's Party does not accept that this technology development project is a lunar course that no one has done before us. The technology is shelf-ware, and the solutions are used elsewhere. But I don't want to underestimate the challenge of adapting it to specific oil fields. The Christian People's Party believes that choosing different solutions is an advantage for all the plans. Only in this way can we try out different solutions and drive technology development on a larger scale. The experience from Kårstø can also be used in Mongstad and elsewhere, and this has been confirmed by the Council of State today. Costly? Yes, it costs to create new solutions that take into account the environment. But the alternatives are so much worse: CO2 emissions are increasing, climate change is speeding up, and Norway is not becoming a leading country either in terms of environmental policy or technology. If there is something the Norwegian gas power debate has taught me, it is that the power industry and industry need a political pressure to come up with more environmentally friendly solutions. The State should be an active party in technology development. Christian People's Party believes we can afford it. That is why we supported the 2007 proposal for funding, and we are prepared to continue with government funding to generate environmentally friendly technologies for the management of gas power plants. We also need such solutions in order to reduce CO2 emissions from the oil sector, and we are positive in our cooperation with the sector in order to achieve this. It will always be a drag on how much money the state will spend on this, but the Christian People's Party also believes the industry itself must be involved and take its share. It is possible to reduce Norwegian CO2 emissions. It says the low-emission sample pretty clearly. A few weeks ago, I asked the Council of State, Enoksen, whether a possible suspension of Kårstø would lead to lower climate emissions. It is rather strange that it is not possible to answer this simple question unambiguously, as Odd Roger Enoxen writes to me in his answer. If we can't clean up and become emissions, yes, climate emissions are rising. It makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1538	Interpellant asks the State Councils to help stop the work on cleaning up the gas power plant at Kårstø. He has a long way on the way to having his wish fulfilled – if not completely, then at least a bit on the way. If the cleaning project is not iced, at least it's shot into the blue. The Soria Moria Declaration unequivocally stated that the gas power plant at Kårstø was to be cleaned by 2009. Most thought it meant before 2009. Then we were told that within means during the course of the year, and a year later we are told that the latest possible time this promise can be fulfilled is 2011–2012. Whether the Government is going to go for the fastest possible solution remains to be seen. There have been very different signals from representatives of government parties. Someone will wait even longer, because then we'll get a smarter and more Norwegian solution. I recorded that while the debate was going at its worst, a press release was sent out in which the head of the Central Party and the Minister of Oil and Energy assured that the Central Party wanted to clean up in 2011 and 2012. It could have been interesting if the Council of State today could confirm that he can also state on behalf of the Government that a go for 2011–2012, which now appears to be the fastest possible time to be cleansed. We see that also at this point the promises in the Soria Moria declaration were very poor quality assurance. This was no minor matter during the negotiations on the Soria Moria declaration. It was said to be the most complicated one to find a solution, and where an external help was collected to ensure the quality of the decision you made. Today, the Minister of Oil and Energy says that with such a unique project, one must show a certain humility. When the victory for SV was celebrated at Soria Moria, Kristin Halvorsen said that what was stated in the Soria Moria statement meant that the gas power struggle was now over in Norway. Now there would be cleaning at Kårstø by 2009, and all new gas power plants would be cleaned from day one. Now we know it's not going to be like this. The left was against the construction of gas power plants on Kårstø without one at the same time leaving for cleaning. And we took part in a government that went off because we were voted down by the Labour Party, the Advance Party and the Right, which in this kind of question has historically and in recent times worked well together. It was the Stoltenberg doctrine that won. It's based on: we're building now, and then we'll clean it up when it becomes technologically possible. Left's objection to that doctrine is, among other things, that there will always be a discussion about what is possible and what is the best technological solution. We now see that in relation to Kårstø, and we will clearly see that in relation to Mongstad. I believe that when a decision is to be made in 2012 on Mongstad, some will argue for further postponement to get a better solution. In the view of the Left, we must now start to clean up Kårstø as quickly as possible, because it is necessary to achieve the objectives set out in the Kyoto Agreement on which Norway is obliged. The interpellant said that the Kårstø emissions are ‘minor’. For Norway, they are significant in our efforts to meet the Kyoto commitments. And then it's important that someone show the way and start cleaning the emission sources you have. For Norway, which has the ambition to be a leading nation in international climate work, it is absolutely essential for our credibility that we do the job at home, and we only do that if we ensure that the emissions from our gas power plants are cleaned. Stoltenberg's tumultuous New Year's speech about the lunar landing project at Mongstad was, in effect, a cover-up of the fact that the Government opens the way for the postponement of purification on a project that one had made a clear commitment to. It was said that the government had a vision of CO2 cleaning within seven years. Now one knows that the Mongstad project is not unique. Not least one series of articles has been documented in the Official Journal of Bergen. I'm recording that in St.prp. No 49 for 2006-2007 is a completely different language use from that of the Prime Minister. There's one talking about one of several projects, etc., and that's a much more correct approach. I hope that during the debate today we can get a confirmation from the Council of State that the Kårstø plant will be cleaned as soon as possible. That would be a good news in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1564	I choose to start by saying that I think the interpellant raises an interesting question. It is doubtful that the Government, through its CO2 ambition, has now focused on and concreteises important projects related to CO2 clean-up. This applies to both Kårstø, Mongstad, Tjeldbergodden, Hustad Marble, which is already mentioned. The important thing is the reductions in emissions and the improvements in our own climate accounts. However, the entire project has an additional dimension that is not irrelevant, because we have said and are in the process of contributing to technology development and industrial opportunities in Norway. There is no doubt that much is happening in that field, and that a number of exciting projects have now been launched to get CO2 clean-up. It's important, and that's good. It is necessary that all forces are put in place to address the climate challenges. It has been mentioned many times earlier today. A lot's going on. The Mongstad project can make Norway go all the way ahead in putting in place technologies that can make cleaning profitable on a large-scale plant. That's the ambition. It is only when it becomes cheaper to clean CO2 emissions than to buy allowances that we will have the breakthrough needed to bring down greenhouse gas emissions globally. That's where the challenge actually lies. The government has a vision that the Mongstad plant should be an important contribution to achieving such objectives and to achieving a breakthrough. The plan for CO2 management at Norwegian gas power plants is among the most ambitious projects in the world. In terms of time, we are well placed, and we have a good chance of winning the technology race that goes parallel to the environmental race. The agreement between the State and Statoil on CO2 management in Mongstad provides the basis for a targeted organised development of technological and commercial solutions for CO2 management. I think we can confirm that. But if we are to be on the front line, it is absolutely necessary that we also succeed in technology development. Now there is a case for the Stortinget about Mongstad, and Mongstad will undoubtedly be the big technology race. Looking at the technology cycle in an extended perspective from Mongstad's side in connection with Kårstø, I think it's relevant, but it's under the brightest assumption that climate accounting is being maintained in a positive and good way, and that overall we're getting a better run for Norwegian technology development, where we can imagine the outlines that we're actually solving both the technology issue and the cost question in such a way that it can be profitable to phase in CO2 cleaning even in a global perspective. Such a race may not contribute negatively to our own climate accounting. Until then, it's too early to conclude. I think it's important to consider it further in an overall perspective. The potential for improvement in both climate accounting and environmental accounts should be highlighted. I feel that this is what the Council of State and the Government underpin this interpellation debate and through the management they have put up to date.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1598	It's almost like I want Terje Aasland to be the Energy Minister of the next Progress Party government – a very good contribution. He is the only one who has so far understood the point of this interpellation, in my opinion. After all, there is no disagreement that CO2 cleaning plants need to be developed before building them, and everyone agrees that this costs money. That is not what the debate has been about, at least not from my side. It will cost a terrible amount of money. The point of the Progress Party is that we must not waste our money in this process by building technological dinosaurs that are out of date before they are finished, because on death and life we must be able to achieve the goal of a full-scale facility by a certain date, based on a political compromise rather than a review with technologists and industry. In Mongstad, which the Progress Party fully supports, it has been added to this race. On Kårstø, you didn't do it. There was a result of a political compromise, where the information was obviously too poor. Unfortunately, the debate here today shows how symbolism policy has become a governing force in climate policy, and it is incomprehensiblely sad. Then I can't help but be a little surprised that the Christian People's Party and the Left are sitting and crying their brave tears because a demand that they themselves did not get through in their government is not met by the sitting government. Tore Nordtun was inside a lot of climate wool, I just want to call it. It's obvious that we need to have a longer conversation, so I'm not going into it right now. Let me just still establish a few facts. Cleaning on Kårstø will have no impact on Norwegian commitments during this Kyoto period, as the Government has outlined its policy. In St. prp. No 1 underlines the Government itself that Kårstø will not be part of a value chain. Several draw their own reality and later as if the Progress Party is against everything called CO2 cleaning. That's not the point. Our point is that the Kårstø project is not good. Another point that I made very clear is that technology development was not the central element of the Government initially. It also confirmed the Minister of Energy in the Question Time on 18 October last year. When SV talks about Kårstø being a technology development project, they have misunderstood what the Government itself has said. If this debate underlines and points out that the government has now turned around, that they say OK, we push on dates to get the best possible project and see it in connection with Mongstad, and what happens first, is one fat, as long as it gets good and cheap, so cheap that others want to buy it, yes, my point with the interpellation is achieved. What's important here is, what can we do for the future? Let's do a quick calculation: if you're postponing Kårstø, for example. for seven years and estimate that the allowance price at that time is DKK 100 per year. tonnes and one must clean 1 million. tonnes, that means that if you postpone it, it'll cost 700 million. kr in quota purchases. If you want to clean this up to 700 kroner per month. tonne, spends $4.9 billion at the same time. If one then says OK, we're putting it off, it's getting too expensive, so one has $4.2 billion to do research and development for. And if, for example: Buying twice as much allowances as one actually has to, has a further DKK 3.5 billion to drive technology development, and one has exactly the same global CO2 accounting. This has nothing to do with reducing in Norway or not, but it has to do with making good use of the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1622	In 1985 I bought my first PC. It was slow, it was not energy efficient and it was fighting something cruel. It had a bad screen, and it almost had no storage space. Should I have waited to get the perfect PC, I still had not been a PC user today. And had everyone else done the same thing, waiting for the perfect PC, the world had still had to deal with typewriters. It's actually so that someone has to dry up to take the first step. It costs, it involves risk, but someone actually has to do it. I note that the Progress Party is alone in this matter. I actually want to thank the Right for a very constructive article. On the other hand, I must say that I never stop wondering about the Left and Christian People's Party in this matter. Both of these parties had every opportunity to do something in government for four years. Yes, it is true that it was the government of Stoltenberg who gave the concession to Kårstø, Kollsnes and Skogn, but it was the government of Bondevik II that four years later had the opportunity to start a work to identify the value chain to clean up these facilities. It was the same government that had the opportunity to make demands for CO2 management on Melkoya when a gas power concession was granted in connection with Snow White. Nothing was done. And when these two parties behave the way they do today, I have to say that I never stop to be amazed at the attitudes of these two parties. It is definitely not that Kårstø is shot into the blue. As I said in my main post, we are, first of all, in the process of contracting with the project manager for the establishment of the fishing facility. This means that work is to be done. The planning of transport work is therefore based on the following, as I said: 100 000 tonnes of CO2 from Mongstad should be handled in October 2010, and the volume of CO2 from Kårstø should be transported from the end of 2011/2012. So planning is based on what is underlying in the NVE report in all of these areas. Line Henriette Holten Heimdal said that sewage treatment plants of this format are shelf products around the world. That's definitely not the case. There are never built sewage treatment plants the size we're talking about here. It's built sewage treatment plants that have a tenth of this size, but that's what we're going to do to qualify a project like what we're talking about here. Then I was also asked whether a postponement from 2009 to 2011/2012 – which has not been made on the basis that the Government wants to postpone this, but because it is not possible to have it earlier – will lead to higher emissions. No, the Government intends to purchase allowances for a similar emission to that of the gas power plant in this period. This will not lead to increased emissions, precisely because we also intend to use the Kyoto mechanisms to keep emissions at a low level and meet the promises we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1644	That is when the debate is on case No. Four over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1658	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1667	The proposal of the representative of the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik, Bård Hoksrud, Vigdis Giltun and Jan-Henrik Fredriksen is about establishing a separate ombudsman system for mentally retarded persons and that the ombudsman system should have real influence and the necessary sanctions against the service provider. So it's a two-part proposal: to set up an agent, and that this ombudsman should have an authority in addition to the other ombudsman has today. The Committee has divided itself into a majority and a minority – the majority consists of the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Left, while the minority consists of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. An overall committee stresses that it is unacceptable if people with a mental retardation are not provided with a municipal service that meets the individual’s needs in a good and satisfactory way. The 1991 Responsibilities Reform, for people with mental retardation, gave the municipalities full responsibility for services to people with developmental disabilities, in accordance with the current division of tasks between municipality, county and state, and a necessary quality improvement for this group of people started. The quality of services was absolutely essential. The majority oppose the creation of a separate representative for mentally retarded people. We stress that the services provided following individual decisions are made on the basis of assistance needs and not on the basis of special diagnosis. That is why we believe that the Government's proposal in St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, extending the patient Ombudsman scheme to users of municipal health and care services, will ensure that people with mental retardation will have a spokesman who can take care of the individual’s interests. At the same time, we call on the Department of the Enlargement of the Patient Ombudsman System to also address users of municipal health and care services, to pay particular attention to groups of people who are unable to provide their own services. At the same time, we ask the Government to evaluate the scheme after three years. At the same time, the majority opposes the fact that an ombudsman should have sanctions, because that is what we consider to be outside the ombudsman's mind, namely being a spokesperson, one who can lead a case for another. The majority propose that the recommendation be annexed to the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1686	An overall committee agrees that it is unacceptable if people with a mental retardation do not receive a service offer in municipalities that properly care for individual needs. In 1991, the reform of people with mental retardation started to increase the quality required, where special care was discontinued and municipalities were given full responsibility for the services of people with developmental disabilities. It was about seeing the whole human being. Like everyone else, people with developmental disabilities should also receive help where they are and where they live — in their own municipality. Everyone has the right to living conditions that facilitate development, self-employment and participation under as normalized conditions as possible on the basis of each individual’s assumptions. There are several instruments that can help people with mental retardation to obtain a good service, including: individual level and responsibilities around the individual. Development of competence, cross-institutional cooperation, good internal control, documentation and reporting procedures and supervision of municipalities could ensure both the scope and quality of the services provided by the individual recipient. The majority of the Committee, including the government parties, stresses – as the rapporteur explained – that the services provided by a single decision are based on the need for assistance and not on diagnosis. That is why we are not in favour of creating a separate representative for a special diagnostic group. In the care notification, the Government proposes to extend the patient Ombudsman scheme to users of municipal health and care services. The majority of the Committee believes that this will ensure that people with a mental retardation will also have a spokesman who can take care of the individual’s interests when one feels that the municipal service provision is not good enough. The new agents must assist everyone in caring for their health and care interests, irrespective of the reason for the need for assistance. However, it is important that the ombudsmen work actively to assist those who do not have the resources themselves to contact the ombudsman, including some people with mental retardation and their families. Psychiatric retardants shall be treated as equivalent citizens and granted the rights conferred by Norwegian law and policy decisions, including access to justice. The County Council and the Ombudsman. By virtue of being a supervisory body, the County Council and the National Health Authority have the power to oblige municipalities to rectify breaches of legislation and to amend individual decisions. I understand that the term ‘patient ombudsman scheme’ may seem exclusive. This should not be the case and perhaps a change of name should be considered after the extension of the scheme. At the same time, the patient ombudsman is an established name that many people know. Finally, I would like to stress that the majority of the Committee is asking the Department of the Enlargement of the Patient Ombudsman System to pay particular attention to groups of people who are unable to express their own service needs, and we are asking the Government to evaluate the scheme after three years and report back to the Stortinget appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1712	Rarely have I been so disappointed not to get an impact on a proposal in this room as what I am today, simply because here we could have tackled a problem that is important. Many people with mental retardation and relatives face daily problems in their meeting with the public. This is true on the front floor, in school everyday life, in connection with leisure and other things that you want and need to have an organized offer. This is not a thoughtful situation. This is the everyday life of a lot of people out there, and it's the everyday life of a group of people who initially have it hard. The last thing we need then is to classify these people as patients, but that's what you actually do in the debate here today. Patients also become these people because they get a disease that causes them to get help from the health care system. That's when you become a patient. I had hopes that you could now take one step further to help this group of people, because I think you've met with opposition for a long enough time. Yes, it has actually become that if you have resource-intensive relatives, you can fight and fight for perhaps finally getting a real setup. But what do we do with all those who don't have resource-powerful relatives? Of course, they can complain about the individual decisions, complain to the county council about the decisions taken in the municipality. Very often, the county review the municipality’s decision to just try to meet the needs there. But the county has no sanction authority over the municipality, so if the municipality does not want to rectify the decision, it is precisely the mentally retarded and their offer that is being made. Furthermore, the majority point out that the current patient ombudsman system should be extended to municipal services. Yeah, that's good. But unfortunately, we're once again going to see that this particular group is going to be the losers in the system again, because this isn't one of the big patient groups that have their big organizations to fight their case. This is a group that has worn out for a number of years and needs a new and special scheme, and then a separate ombudsman system that can intervene where there is a manifest violation of the rights of the relief measures to be taken by this group. Then it does not have to be called upon to be incorporated into the large system that is now to be developed. I don't think there are many people in this room who think that when we're going to expand the system, there's going to be a lot of new people in the system that's going to work on these issues, and that can then go into the individual issues, into the issues of each one that's being hit. No, it's going to be a responsibility that all those who work with those things today, with a certain extension, of course, will work with. But it comes very often – at least I fear it – to be such that those who have the big, heavy organizations in their backs are the ones who are going to be the winners again. There's still an opportunity for this hall to turn around. It is still possible to vote in favour of this proposal, which could help a lot of people to improve their daily lives, to secure their housing, school, cultural and other leisure activities. I take up that proposal from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party which has been included in the vote. So I sincerely hope that this hall can turn and vote for it, so that it becomes a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1729	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1732	There is no doubt that many people with developmental disabilities and their closest relatives experience violations of legal rights in health and social legislation. At the latest yesterday, the Health Inspectorate pointed out that there is an illegal use of coercion and power against people with developmental disabilities in many municipalities. This is one of the most integrity-affecting things a human can experience, and it is reassuring that this affects some of the most vulnerable people in our society. Right went to the Budget-inner. S. No 11 for 2006-2007, in order to implement specific competence measures in the care service in order to limit the use of coercion and power. When we now re-approve of this in the context of the notification of care, I expect a unanimous and unreserved support for this action from the Committee. Violation of statutory rights is a recurring problem for many who need health and care services. But the question is not whether you want to improve legal certainty for people with developmental disabilities and others, but whether you think special agents are the right way to do this. Many people need special assistance to assert their interests. Many rightly claim that both drug addicts, mentally ill, disabled people and others need their own representations to take care of their very interests. However, it is not certain that such fragmentation in different specialised agencies provides a better offer. It may also be a matter of concern to establish your own representatives based on diagnosis, because it helps put people in a booth based on an assumption that they are the same. In its proposal, the Party of Progress states that it is degrading to refer patients with developmental disabilities to the patient representatives. However, all the time when the proposal is based on the need to improve legal certainty in relation to health and social services, it is natural to refer to the patient representatives who have this role in relation to all others who need such services, regardless of diagnosis and level of function. I note that the Landsförbundet voor Entwicklungsbædet believes that the rights of persons with disabilities should be the same as those of others, and that they therefore do not support the proposal for a separate representative for the group they represent. As the Right sees it, it is very positive that the role of patients’ representatives is extended to municipal health and care services. In the municipality of Oslo, there has been a long-standing social ombudsman, who has done an important job of assisting people who depend on municipal health and social services. We believe that a strengthened system of patient representatives will help to improve the assistance of those with developmental disabilities and their relatives to take care of their interests with public authorities. At the same time, we want the system to be evaluated after three years, and here I want to challenge the Council of State to comment on just this. It is already the case that supervisory authorities may require municipalities to remedy breaches of legislation, both in individual cases and through system monitoring. In addition, it is a fundamental principle that elected representatives in the municipality are responsible for the provision of services through elections. It is therefore fundamentally undemocratic, as we see it, that an agent who cannot be appointed or dismissed by the people should be able to review the decisions of the elected representatives. On the right, we cannot agree with the Progress Party on, for example, that. Oslo's patient representative, Peter Hjort, who is an excellent representative, should be able to instruct Oslo's elected social agency, Sylvi Listhaug, to implement a political decision. The role of the Ombudsman must be to assist people in individual cases and to focus attention on general problems of the system. The elected representatives have and must take responsibility for the provision of services. We should all encourage our party traps around in all municipalities to put the search light on the legal certainty of people who need public assistance in their everyday lives. The aim must be that the representatives, together with the supervisory authorities and elected representatives in the municipalities, ensure that all receive the necessary assistance, support and relief needed to cope with everyday life and to live a meaningful life together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1752	I want to start by commending the proposers because they help put the spotlight on a group of people who are both vulnerable and vulnerable. FO, the Joint Organisation for Child Protection Educators, Sosionomers and Protective Caregivers, says in a new congress opinion that 15 years after the reform of responsibility, there is reason to be concerned about the quality of the services of this group. They are particularly concerned that many people with developmental disabilities live in inaction and solitude, and they claim that many have lost or changed their daily supply due to savings in municipalities. Under the previous government, the municipalities were the big losers. We've turned this around. But that doesn't automatically mean that exactly this group will get the offer they're going to have. That is why we need to do a job on the part of Stortinget, and the Council of State needs to do what she can to shed light on the situation of people with developmental disabilities. As an overall committee points out, there are several instruments that can help people with mental retardation to obtain a good service, including: individual plan and groups of responsibilities. Development of competences, cross-institutional cooperation, good internal control, documentation and reporting procedures and supervision of municipalities could ensure both the scope and quality of well-being. With regard to the specific proposal to set up a separate representative for mental retardation, we have assessed that it makes more sense to place this responsibility under the extended patient ombudsman scheme, which the Government will propose in the near future. We will ask the Ministry in its work on this expansion to pay particular attention to groups of people who are unable to express their own service needs. We also want the Government to evaluate the expanded patient ombudsman scheme after three years and report back to the Stortinget. However, we do not support a proposal where the ombudsman system has sanctions, and we do not want our own representatives based on diagnosis or condition. The new agents must assist everyone in caring for their health and care interests, regardless of the reasons for the need for assistance. However, it is important that the ombudsmen work actively to assist those who do not have the resources to contact the ombudsman, among others. individuals with mental retardation and their families. Then the county and the health department in the county, by virtue of being a supervisory body, have the opportunity to oblige the municipalities to rectify matters that are in breach of the law and to amend individual decisions. We have a responsibility ahead of us all, all the parties, to make the new representatives work well for this group as well. I think the committee is going to be active in elucidating the conditions for people with mental retardation, who need this in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1771	Every year, the State Health Authority selects some specific areas to be monitored in particular, because it is of great importance for the legal certainty of individuals, where the likelihood of failure is high, where the consequences for the failure of users and patients are serious, or where users cannot be expected to attend to their own interests. In both 2005 and 2006, government health surveillance focused on the use of coercion and power against people with mental retardation. Reports of these inspections show that services for people with mental retardation are not good enough. There is a care failure and a crime. In 2006, as we heard yesterday, several municipalities did not provide services at a proper level. The supervision was particularly targeted at municipalities that had not taken decisions and/or sent notices of the use of coercion and power against mentally retarded persons. The use of coercion and power was found against several users without the municipality having taken a decision on the use of coercion and power. In some cases, alternative measures had not been tried before a used measure involving just the use of coercion and power. Furthermore, despite decisions on contact with aid, it was found that the decision was not implemented. If a user got an increase in his offer, others were reduced without it being considered that he needed less help. Adequate training was not ensured for all those who would work with people with mental retardation. Among other things, there was a lack of knowledge about when coercion is allowed, and they lacked guidance on how to help the individual user. Furthermore, we know, and we have heard that before, that related complaints to the county council, and that the county council obliges the municipalities to clean up without anything happening, because, as the representative Nesvik was inside, the county council has no sanctioning options. Fifteen years after the closure of mental retardation institutions, there is a need to raise awareness of legal certainty and living conditions. A broad and thorough review of all aspects of life is needed for those with developmental disabilities. What is the quality of the services provided when we know that half of those who work with mentally retarded people are actually unskilled? The Christian People's Party wants to improve the quality of the services with more skilled people, and we want to see greater multidisciplinaryism in the municipalities, among others. with several protective caregivers. We have been in doubt about where we should end up in relation to this proposal by the Progress Party, but we have come to the conclusion that we want to support the proposal. The reports of the State Health Inspectorate show that, despite supervision for several years, insufficient efforts have been made to ensure adequate services. That is also why we support the proposal to set up an ombudsman. Before we were to decide on this, the Christian People's Party and I would primarily have wanted a review of the legal security and living conditions of the mentally retarded to find out which ombudsman system should be set up for people with a mental retardation, because we have more representatives today. Some actually have sanctions and others don't. So there are variations in the sanctioning options you have, and when we have a situation where the county doesn't have the opportunity to do this, I'm deeply concerned. We don't get this kind of mapping, which also the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen says she would want. She says that we have to illuminate the situation more strongly. That's what the state council said no. Therefore, when this does not come, I feel strongly that the only thing right now is immediately ensuring this group of sound services through its own representative. It is important that there is a body that focuses in particular on safeguarding their rights. We know that many relatives are very tired after fighting for their children to be safe and sound. For them too, there will be an extra security right now with a separate agent fighting for valuable services. I would like to refer to the resoundingly fresh supervisory report of the State Health Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1794	The left will point out, on a principle basis, that there must be no inflation in the creation of government mandates. Taking into account the different interests of society and individuals is a fundamental political issue and not least a political responsibility. We believe that politicians should be the people and individuals of their lives, and they must take this responsibility, especially for people who need to watch their communities more than most, and administrations must have responsibility and duty to follow up their policies. We in the Left believe that it is not necessarily an advantage to red tape or to regulate the role of red tape. Rather, it can help to deceive both political and administrative responsibility for all people and the division of roles between public and civil society. Psychiatric retardation is not a single group either, and it is not certain that everyone will think that their interests are placed with a state-sponsored figure. State intervention cannot or should not replace policy. Without a principal and restrictive attitude, an unlimited number of traffickers between civil society and the state may be at risk in an unspeakable and unlucky way, in our opinion. We can simply risk that the Umboda will be a sleep cushion for the politicians, and that we – the politicians – will be able to shift responsibility to others, that is, from ourselves, who must have absolute responsibility. The left is concerned that mental retardation should be given a stronger and more dignified position in society. However, we do not believe that an own order is the right way to go. Finally, I would like to refer to the questions raised by the Norwegian Association for the Developmentally Impaired of 7 December 2006, and I agree with the fact that mental retardation is to be treated as equivalent citizens and given the rights conferred by Norwegian law and political decisions, and of course this includes the possibility of complaining to the county councillor, the Civilombudsman with more.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1813	I would like to make it as clear as I can, stress that it is totally unacceptable when the service offered to people with developmental disabilities fails, and when legal certainty is not ensured. Ombudsman arrangements may be one of several important measures to address such failures. I am therefore pleased that the Storting is concerned about the issue of representativeship. As is well known, in 1987 the Stortinget decided to abolish the special health protection for the mentally retarded. We all know that the liquidation meant that services for people with mental retardation should be provided by the ordinary auxiliary and that services and measures should be provided in relation to the local environment. Localisation was seen as an important prerequisite for people with a developmental disability to be seen as full members of society, and for them to see themselves as full-fledged members of society, which they are of course. We stand by these principles. The majority of the Committee is committed to ensuring that people with disabilities are given a strengthened and worthy position in society but do not believe that their own representative is the way to go. I agree. However, I believe it is very important to put in place ombudsman arrangements covering the health and care services in the municipalities, as several speakers have pointed out. In the care message presented in the autumn, the government has announced, as you know, that our work on expanding the patient ombudsman scheme, which currently only applies in the specialist health service, will soon be implemented. We will ensure that the ombudsman system also covers users of municipal health and care services. I have also previously explained this in a letter to the Christian People's Party big group. An extended patient ombudsman system will also be responsible for people with developmental disabilities. This shall apply to both healthcare and practical assistance in municipalities. The extended patient ombudsman system should be broadly embraced. It shall include health services where developmental as well as other residents of the municipality are included as patients, but the ombudsman scheme shall also include users of social services such as: relief, home help, user-driven personal assistance and care pay. In this context, we all know that we are not talking about patients. If the Stortinge joins this proposal, I will first send out a consultation note recommending that the patient ombudsman scheme be extended to the municipal health service and the social services section of the Social Services Act. In this case, I would like to emphasise that the ombudsmen should pay particular attention to groups that are unable to express their own service needs. This applies, for example: some people with developmental disabilities. I would also like to stress that it is not enough in itself to extend the ombudsman regime. Of course, the best thing is that users and patients do not need to go to the Ombudsman with a case. By doing so, I believe that we should put great emphasis on – and that is the most important thing – developing both the scale and quality of the services in the municipalities. We have also described this in the care message. In the national health plan, we have set the framework for further work on developing a good service. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health will soon produce a report summarising knowledge about the provision of services, legal certainty and the living conditions of people with developmental disabilities. I look forward to receiving this report. I expect that it will be useful for the government's work in a number of areas. We would like to use the results of the report in the further process of expanding the patient ombudsman system. Of course, we will also use it in the government's follow-up to the study on defence, which came in 2004. It's a job led by the Minister of Justice. In the autumn, the State Council for the Disabled will organise a hearing in which we will discuss the report of the Social and Health Directorate. I would also like to focus on following up the supervisory report that has recently come from the State Health Authority. I feel that we all have a common goal of ensuring good and safe health and care services for people with a mental retardation and of strengthening their position in our society. I believe that the most important thing is to strengthen what we offer, but that the best solution for an ombudsman system is to extend the patient ombudsman system. In that case, we will have an ombudsman system that includes the health and care services in the municipalities and covers all the inhabitants. I would, as I said, like to stress that the new ombudsman system pays particular attention to groups that sail might not always be able to express their needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1832	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1835	I do not doubt the intention of the Council of State and the desire to make everyday life the best possible. That's not what this case is about, because I'm convinced that the Council of State is thinking about this every single day. The issue is how best to ensure that this group also receives the help it needs. The majority are concerned that this group should be included in the extension of the current patient ombudsman scheme. Then my questions to the Council of State are: How wide has it been thought that the scheme should be embraced? What is the size of the scheme in relation to resources and the number of annual works? How many municipalities should this apply? Should there be a system in each municipality? Should there be cooperation between several municipalities? What level are we talking about? In this context, the need to extend the current patient ombudsman system to the health and care services in municipalities is being defended. Then we have to know to what extent this will be, and when we can expect the scheme to be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1842	If the Storting joins the proposal, the Government proposes that the scheme should cover all users of municipal health and social services — both patients and, as I said, this group and a number of other groups on the issue of practical assistance. How this is to be organised in the municipalities, whether there is going to be a scheme in each municipality, or whether any of the smallest municipalities should have a common, I will not be completely bastful of it, but the government's wish is to make sure that it embraces wider than today. If the Storting joins in this through the treatment of the care notification, as I know The Storting is in the final phase of, the Government intends to send this to the hearing as soon as possible to hear what people think about this before we promote a final proposal. But we should not delay that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1849	I want to refer again to the recent supervisory report that we heard about in the media yesterday. I think it shows a very negative development, and that we really should have taken a take-off immediately. Once again, I am very sorry that the government will not carry out a screening, where one had really looked at legal certainty, among other things. for mentally impaired persons. My question to the Council of State is subject to sanctions. We know that many municipalities make decisions that may be incomplete. We hear that many municipalities do not make decisions at all. In fact, many people with mental retardation have received support in their complaints via the county. Now that we are moving towards getting an ombudsman for everyone, is my question: can the Council of State consider a sanctioning option for the new ombudsman in relation to some mental retardation measures, possibly extending its sanctioning powers to this group in some cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1856	I take the Health Inspectorate report very seriously. That means that I fully agree with both the representative Davøy and others who have pointed out that we can read about some unacceptable things in that report. There's no doubt about it. That's what I'm trying to do. Now, when we get the report, we're going to go through it in a proper way and propose how we're going to follow it up, to try to prevent this from happening so much in the future. I would also like to inform the Storting that this year the enforcement of mental retardation under the Social Services Act will be evaluated. There is one response to what the supervisory report also reveals. The fact that we are also open to evaluating the ombudsman system after a while is another answer. I don't want to be over the table here in the Chamber to respond specifically to what the representative is dealing with in terms of penalties, but I am determined that we need to do what we can to improve the situation. We are now sending our proposal to extend the patient ombudsman system to the hearing, and then we'll hear what input is coming, before the government finally concludes. But I hear what's being said.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1863	As I was in my post, we are positive that the role of patient representatives is extended to municipal health and care services. I had a small question about evaluation in my post. When this system comes into place, I think it's very important for us who have been in doubt about what scheme to put on, that it will be a thorough evaluation of the new system. I'd like to ask the Council to comment on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1870	I can confirm that I have nothing against evaluating this scheme. Rather, on the contrary: I think it's very right to do it after a certain time – preferably three years, if it's wanted from Stortinget. Because we always have to make sure that the things we do actually work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1875	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1880	It is not often the Stortinge gets the opportunity to discuss the issues of mental retardation. Like the representative of Thorkildsen, I think it's very good that we get it on the political agenda in between, and it might be relevant to discuss ombudsmen. I hope we have several opportunities to discuss care for mentally retarded people in the future. I think there is reason to remind each other that mental retardation is not a uniform group, but a very complex group of children, with young people, with adults and with some old ones, with complex needs and various disorders, such as us without mental retardation. Of course, infringements of the legal provisions of the social services law, including those with mental retardation, are totally unacceptable. But I have no faith that it is an ombudsman who decides whether the mentally retarded person will get a good and worthy offer. It is very much about respect and the willingness to follow up the good intentions that were once put in the care reform, when the special care was terminated. Then it's very important, and perhaps quite crucial, that we have a good municipal economy, in order to give mentally retarded people the good life out in the municipality they live in. Not everyone has. There are quite considerable inequalities in municipalities, and it is also a major issue of political priorities. I'm afraid of stigmatisation, I'm afraid of visualization more than inclusion. That was not what was in the reform that we were to do, that was not what was in Stortinget's intentions when the reform was adopted. That's why, at least, I'm very concerned that mental retarders have to be referred to the patient's representative, like other patients, because, as many people have been involved, they're affected by the same somatic disorders as the rest of us. I feel very confident that the Council of State will now follow that development closely, and I am quite satisfied with what the Council of State has expressed in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1891	I think we have to take some history with us in relation to why we are actually discussing this matter in Stortinget today. The whole reason we have a debate on that is that we have had a service offer that has clearly failed. Why are we discussing an ombudsman arrangement today? Well, it's just because of a service offer that hasn't kept a target, and it's been a run-up among the relatives of the mentally retarded, who's demanded a better everyday life. That's after all the weakest things we're talking about in this case. Of course, it is not that an ombudsman scheme alone will address all problems related to mental retardation. Everyone knows that's not the case, but we also know that this could have helped a step or two along the way. I don't think it makes sense to use individual plans as an excuse for today's system, when you know that in the years that individual plans have been passed as law, this has almost not worked in a single municipality. When you choose a course further where no one should have sanctions when there is clearly a breach of the service offer, you are sitting with a tool that you cannot use. When it comes to the fact that an ombudsman arrangement can become a sleep cushion for politicians, I would rather say the opposite: it is today's system that has become a sleep cushion, for today's system does not work. If today's system had worked, we wouldn't have had this discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1901	This proposal is based on strong concern and a desire from relatives to people with mental retardation. It's a family that sees every day how services fail. They're worried. They're worried on behalf of their children. Many of these children have strong relatives who have followed them throughout their lives and who want to follow them even to the end of their lives. But it's not all the relatives who will make it because of their own health. They're particularly worried, they're worried about who's going to take care of these kids on the day they don't even make it anymore. Today's system is not working. There are representatives in the municipalities, representatives who each year submit reports to the local authorities with a lot of concerns messages, with individual cases that are not addressed. The following year, a new year's report is coming, and many of the same things are going on again. There's nothing happening. The local government has looked at it, took it for information, and finished it! This is also the case with an ombudsman system that does not have sanctions; it becomes an agent that has a lot to do, but has no ability to correct the errors. When you talk about politics and elected people's decisions, it's going to count strongly in a case like this, yes, I'm going to be completely exhausted, simply. They say you can pick someone else in four years. What kind of attitude is it to such serious problems? We must take seriously that we have had a reform that leads to many now living in their own homes and not getting what they need in everyday life – it's care, it's help to live an aged life and not just exist, and it's being cared for as a human being. They need help, and they need someone to see when they don't get the help they need. We need an agent who can be more out-of-office, an agent who can see when something is wrong, an agent who can handle it and order the municipalities to do something about it. Getting a lot of worry messages when nothing happens doesn't help. These are people who suffer from day to day, and who are unable to care for the elementary needs of others that we care for ourselves. I am very disappointed today that you can't now go in to give a group of this ombudsman for whom there is a clear need. It's not without reason that the relatives strongly want to protect their children, so they can get a good life on. I don't think that's the last time we have this case up. At least we're going to follow very closely what's going on. We hope we're wrong, but we're afraid there won't be much better relationships for those we're talking about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1914	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2149]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1930	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1939	The proposal of the representatives of Nesvik, Giltun and Fredriksen deals with measures to increase organ donor capacity in Norway, including: registration, suspension of competence and DRG coding. There is a cross-political consensus in the Committee that there is an important area to focus on and that it is necessary to focus on how best to do this. The Committee points out that a good number of measures have been put in place to improve the situation, such as: that, from 1 January 2006, a record has been established of all deaths in intensive care units to detect potential donors and that a national coordinator has been employed to follow them up. A working group has also been set up to strengthen the development of competences and communication processes in healthcare professionals, where a new training programme is to be developed. The theme is difficult to address to those involved, and personnel must be guaranteed a good competence to meet the relatives in the difficult situations as they are. It is in the 2007 state budget earmarked 10.4 million. kr for organ donation and all RHFs have received their share. This has also been followed up in the mission document, following up on relevant actions. It is important that in our 28 donor hospitals, resources are allocated to the donor-responsible doctors, and it is now important that we also follow this further up and see what kind of effect the money has been allocated. The Committee also mentions this in trafficking in human beings, which newspapers have focused on the sale of organs on the illegal market. This needs to be followed up in particular by the Government’s action plan, which has also been presented in line with this. The specific measures in place are necessary to increase awareness of organ transplantation. Generalising this and getting people to take their stand before crisis situations arise is the best thing. How best to solve it, we don't know exactly. There have been many good ideas on how this can be done, but the Committee awaits the EU's efforts, among other things. electronic health cards, to see if this is one thing we can do in Norway to increase access. The question of organ donation is a difficult one, which is given to the individual in an already under pressure and difficult time. That the donor himself has taken this up in advance may be helpful, but often it is the relatives who have to make the decision. It is therefore important that personnel have the competence to make the conversation, both in order to follow up the relatives afterwards, and in order to make more bodies available. The Committee therefore agrees that the Government must ensure that healthcare professionals have this competence, as required. proposal No 1 in the settings. In the case of organs from the living donor, such as the kidney, it is worrying that the cows are growing. We also heard this when we had a hearing on the matter. It says, after we're informed by the Foundation Organ Donation, about 200 on the waiting list, which is a big challenge. Most people live with dialysis and a daily routine with frequent treatment, and the focus should also be on how to get living donors of the kidney. The Ministry of Health and Welfare now has a report on the topic, on the number of dialysis patients, and this needs to be followed up to see how we can best meet this in the coming years. What the committee disagrees on is costs related to transplantation. There is today a separate DRG code for the procurement of organs, and the Council of State, by letter to the Committee on 16 November 2006, has informed that the Directorate of Social and Health has been given a mandate to review the financial environment around it. The minority in the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, awaits this report, which is coming soon, and will see if it reveals any deviations. I believe that the majority of the committee, consisting of the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party, will justify their proposal in the specific case of the DRG code. The disagreement is not so big. That's the time aspect here. There were several organisations in the hearings. Everyone was equally concerned about increasing access to organs. Organizations such as the Foundation Organ Donation do a very important job of generalising and generalising transplantation. Because what we know is that the more people know, and the more people dare to talk about difficult issues, the easier it is to get action. Attitude campaigns and awareness raising are important things to include further, which the Foundation and the Committee are also concerned about. Since this is a matter on which we agree, and the proposal of the Storting Committee has quite a number of aspects that we can take into account in the further work to increase access to organs, we want to attach the proposal to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1965	The Rikshospitalet has a nationwide responsibility and carries out all organ transplants in Norway. There is good cooperation with our Nordic neighbouring countries on the exchange of organs, but unfortunately it is a fact that the Rikshospital has had to send organs out of the country for time because of lack of capacity and for the same reason on some occasions has refused to offer organs from our neighbouring countries, and patients die on a waiting list pending life-giving organs. In 2004, a working group was set up to investigate matters with a view to improving access to bodies and, where appropriate, the establishment of a national register. The working group opposed the establishment of an organ donation register, as experience from other countries shows that registers do not help to increase access to organs. It is also expensive to establish and operate and difficult to liquidate. Since 1997, the Foundation Organ Donation has provided the public with good and accurate information on what organ donation is, and the donor card introduced in 2002 has proved to be a good way of promoting organ donation in relation to the public. The Progress Party will therefore provide in the budgets annual operational contributions enabling the Foundation to continue its information work. However, the working group’s investigation provided many answers on how to improve hospital conditions, and the undersigned, Nesvik and Fredriksen have therefore, in the light of this investigation, made proposals for three concrete actions, which have been supported both by the patient organisations and those responsible at the hospitals. Organ transplantation is currently the only treatment that can provide long-term survival in the event of a terminal failure of the heart, lungs and liver. For patients with renal impairment, which we can unfortunately expect to increase in number, dialysis is an option that sustains life, but the quality of life is getting worse, and the cost of long-term dialysis is many times higher than in transplantation. I now see that the number waiting for the kidney has actually increased by 30 pst. last year. At the same time, I have recorded that the number of transplants went down, although it can also be used with live donors. This was not what I expected after following the problem and discussions at conferences in the last year. It is a difficult task for healthcare professionals to talk to relatives about donation, especially if the victim himself has not taken a decision on the question. The relatives, who are characterized by deep sorrow and despair, may have difficulty accepting that their loved one really is dead, as the usual signs that death has occurred are not present. This places great demands on the doctor’s ability to communicate, empathize and engage, and even then, in many cases, the result will be a refusal to donate. There will also be cases where the bodies are not suitable or where a suitable recipient is not found at short notice. It is not obvious that any body is appropriate and the condition for a successful operation is that the body is not rejected. When a patient dies in circumstances that allow organ donation in a donor hospital, caregivers are obliged to address the question of organ donation with the relatives, and to ensure that this happens, we suggest that hospitals should be required to keep statistics on all deaths in intensive care units, where it is clear whether donations have been evaluated. The much higher donation rate in Spain is due significantly to the identification and follow-up of potential donors and the questioning of relatives. It is confirmed by the hospitals that it does not work this way with us today. In case of a positive response from the family, the Rikshospitalet is notified. The National Hospital donor team travels immediately to the donor hospital, where they take out organs, so quickly to return to the Rikshospital to perform transplants, up to seven at the same time. This requires very large resources, and activities must have a 24-hour standby throughout the year. A DRG code should be established as soon as possible, which will be triggered by each donation. For the calculation of such a code, all direct and indirect current costs must be taken into account. The DRG must not be set too low. It is also necessary to devote the necessary time to the tasks, as well as to self-relevance and training for both the donor-responsible doctor and his/her staff. It is necessary to ensure that hospitals have sufficient intensive capacity at all times to carry out organ donation tasks. It will be a paradox if measures are taken and means are used to increase the number of organs and the Rikshospital does not have sufficient capacity at the same time to use the bodies provided. We therefore hope that we will now receive support for the proposals of the Progress Party, which will be re-examined. There is an urgent need to introduce measures that have been shown to be effective in countries such as the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. Spain, and our goal is to be the best at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1988	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e1991	Organ donation is a matter of life and death for many patients in transplant queues. There is reason to commend the Progress Party for the initiative to increase the number of organ donations, thus saving more lives. At the same time, it is gratifying that some of the measures proposed have already been implemented, in whole or in part. There is no doubt that both the competence for organ donation and communication with its relatives are essential for increasing the number of organ donations. It is therefore positive that work is in progress on developing skills in these areas. It is also essential that hospital activities are designed to fully exploit the potential for donations. I myself contributed to promoting proposals for concrete measures to increase donor capacity as early as 2001. The Co-operation Board followed up this initiative, including: through the establishment of a national organ transplantation coordinator. This was an action that had already proved to be effective in Spain, which has succeeded in significantly increasing the number of donations. Regional health firms were already instructed by the Minister of Health and Care to facilitate the activities of the coordinators in 2005 and to ensure that there were separate posts for donor doctors in hospitals. The right has also supported the positive proposal of the Government Parties for increased appropriations for this purpose for the current year. We now support the proposal of the Progress Party to introduce a DRG code to ensure that health businesses are covered by their real costs of organ donation. The co-operation administration launched the donor card scheme, which allows individuals to decide on the issue of donation before entering a critical and urgent situation. As I see it, this information work itself is key to increasing the number of donations and thus giving more people the opportunity to live on despite a serious illness. However, organ transplantation is more than a biological process. For some, it is a great privilege to be able to help save another human being – as a potential donor said to the Haugesunds Avis on 7 October 2000: ‘For me, the choice to give bodies is an expression of love and love for life. It's about giving of yourself, giving a life after death." It must be stressed that this is of course not a simple choice, for – as he said further: ‘The decision requires time, care and thorough thought.’ The choice is often left to the relatives, and this is a difficult choice to make on behalf of others. At the same time, most people are in a critical life situation when the question becomes relevant, and it is very understandable that the idea of donation may be difficult in such situations. There is reason to believe that this choice can be easier if the potential donor has already taken an active decision on the issue and informed his closest to it. In this way, the donor card scheme and the information work carried out in this context are crucial for increasing the number of donations. This work should be intensified to ensure that the issue of organ donation has been discussed as far as possible and reflected on its own position on the matter. Here I want to draw some parallels to the important work of cancer-causing Bengt Eidem – who most people probably know as a former political advisor in the Ministry of Defence – and his colleagues did to increase the number of donors and bone marrow transplants. This campaign shows that it is beneficial, and that very many people are willing to sacrifice something to stand up for fellow people who are affected by disease. However, it is also important to respect the choice of not wanting to be a donor or that the question is too difficult to address. This, as I see it, is essential to ensure the legitimacy and openness of the organ donation system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2016	With effect from 1 January of this year, a record has been made of all deaths in intensive care units with a view to detecting potential organ donors. This registration is made in the Norwegian Intensive Register, which is a quality register operated by Health Vest RHF/Health Bergen. Data from this work will reveal the potential for organ donation in the individual hospital, thus targeting measures where the potential has not been sufficiently exploited. It is the Social and Health Directorate, through the National Organ Donation Coordinator, who is responsible for monitoring this. In 2006, a working group was set up to strengthen the development of competences and communication processes of health professionals in donor hospitals. In cooperation with NOROD — Norwegian Organ Donation Resource Group — a new training programme shall be developed with the aim of integrating the training of health professionals in this field into regular hospital training programmes. This is very important, because communication with relatives needs to be done – as many have been involved – in a way that guarantees both dignity and respect and at the same time provides an understanding of the importance of this issue to society as well. The Foundation Organ Donation has a particularly important role to play in providing information to the public about the possibility of donating organs, and they do a very important job. The brochure with donor cards, which is distributed to all the country’s pharmacies – such as: I have sails in my wallet, and probably many others are going around in their wallets – is an important contribution to generalising the donating of organs before difficult situations arise. For my part, I think it's just a point to be able to fill out the card in a situation where I sail expect that there won't be a situation where my relatives have to make a choice. It is important that I have thought through this in advance. The fact that we can disseminate information about this to other people is an important role that politicians also have. The 2007 mission documents for regional health enterprises include: to the effect that access to organs to transplants should be increased and that appropriate measures must therefore be taken. So it is said that all potential organ donors need to be identified and that healthcare professionals should address the question of donation. The regional health undertaking shall be responsible for allocating sufficient resources to the function of donor-responsible physician in the hospitals approved for organ donation. The regional health undertaking shall cooperate with the national organ donation coordinator of the Social and Health Directorate in order to increase the number of available bodies. Attention and information on organ donation are important in order for us to be able to maintain a high level of transplantation activity for the future and keep the waiting lists down. I also believe that it will be exciting to follow the EU's testing of electronic health cards, which are under testing in some countries, and to see if this can be relevant for Norway in the future. There's a lot happening on that area from the government side now. The need to increase the number of organ donations in Norway is high. Every year many families experience that one of their closest relatives is seriously injured in an accident, or is hit by brain bleeding or blood clots. If life is not about to be saved, there may be questions about donation. The doctor will then ask the relatives if they know the deceased's attitude to donation, and ask permission to use his or her organs to save others. The entire Committee believes that it is very understandable that relatives have difficulties dealing with this issue. In many cases, relatives have received a tragic message, a terrible message, that one of their loved ones has been exposed to an accident — or acutely fatal disease — and they are natural enough to be in shock. In such a situation, it goes without saying that those who are going to ask if the relatives are willing to make such a donation so close to a tragic event must be very well equipped to take this conversation in the middle of a grieving process. It demands a lot of money. Therefore, it is important that the question be asked by health professionals with competence in this area, but also with characteristics that make them the right one. The entire Committee has therefore agreed to ask the Government to provide health professionals with professional training on what is happening around an organ donation, and in particular on how to communicate with relatives. Since proposals are being made to establish a DRG code for organ donation, the majority need to point out that there is already a DRG code for organ procurement but that there are no registrations. In addition, the Directorate for Social and Health shall carry out a financial review of the organ donation activity. Brustad County Council has opened up additional reimbursement for organ donation if the report reveals major deviations, and we await this. I think this is an area where there is a lot of pressure, and there are many in the committee who are very involved in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2033	The Christian People's Party is concerned that sick people receive treatment as soon as possible to avoid unnecessary suffering. For many people who are in organ queues, getting a new organ quickly is vital – as many people have been in it. Sufficient number of organs is essential to perform lifesaving transplants. In addition, waiting for a new organ is a great psychological sensation. I therefore want to pay tribute to the representatives of the Progress Party for putting this important theme on the agenda in order to raise awareness of this, both among politicians, in the media and among health institutions and organisations concerned. There's a need for people to think through a situation where even as a relative, they have to make a decision about donating a dead person's heart, lungs, liver, pancreas or kidneys to save another life. I am very pleased that the Committee asks the Government to ensure that health professionals receive professional training on what is happening around an organ donation and on how to communicate with relatives. We know that on average, three people are saved by one person donating away their organs. It is therefore a very, very important matter that we are debating here today. There's just the prospect of saving lives that are so valuable. A lot of people are waiting to get organs. At any time, 250 people are on the waiting list for organ transplantation. We know that in 2004 28 patients died waiting for new organs. It's a great burden to wait, both physically and mentally. Often these people are plagued by large and life-threatening plagues just because of the serious disease that causes them to have to undergo a transplant. It is also burdensome to wait for a notice of when to do so. In 2004, 90 donations were made, and 352 patients were treated with organ transplantation. 25 pst. by the relatives said no when they were asked if they wanted the organs of the deceased to be donated. The relatives are often insecure, very insecure, at what the deceased themselves would have wanted. So it is important to discuss the subject with others. Furthermore, it is important that there are sufficient staff in the 28 donor hospitals in Norway to ask the related question when patients are current donors. Finally, I would like to highlight in particular the importance of the fact that hospitals prioritise enough resources for a donor-responsible doctor. Spain is at the top of Europe with most donors measured against the population, and a significant reason for this is very good organisation in Spanish donor hospitals. The Christian People's Party also supports the proposal to ensure that hospitals are paid for the job they do in terms of organ donation by establishing their own DRG code.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2050	I would also like to thank the proposers, who have made it possible for us to see the search light on organ donation. I think an open debate will lead to a demystation of this very important topic. This, in turn, will help to make more people positive about organ donation. We all know that there is a need to increase the number of organs for donation. We have also got that right in this debate. We know, for example. that the number of dialysis patients in Norway has now passed a thousand and that the number is growing quite rapidly. We know that half of these patients belong to transplants, and those who receive transplants will have a far greater chance of getting a better life, where they can participate in society in a good way. They cannot at least be at work. And we know that if you want to have dialysis three times a week, for example, with long transports and other disadvantages, it gives people a poor quality of life. It's also an economic aspect by finding organs and transplanting them to people, for example. as an alternative to dialysis. It will simply be a good solution for the economy. I've been told that calculations show that a dialysis patient costs society a million dollars a year in public spending, while a transplant may cost society less than a hundred thousand dollars, plus that he or she may be in full employment. Another aspect that some people have been dealing with is that if we see this in an international perspective, it's important to make sure that we have our own and good access to organs in Norway. Unfortunately, we know that illegal trade in organs, which are a form of trafficking in human beings, is on the rise. By ensuring our citizens a good supply, we can at least help to eliminate Norwegian demand in an illegal market. In order to improve this situation, decisions will be taken today on better training of health professionals. It's an important page. Economic incentives are probably important, too. This is the left hand side. Better organisation and better cooperation among all involved are at the heart of — and not least of — learning from others. Spain has been mentioned before in the debate by several speakers, and this is a country that has succeeded much better than Norway in getting the number of transplants and organ supply. So I'm assuming that the Council of State will look into e.g. Spain — ‘look to Spain’ — to resolve this better in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2065	I've noticed the commitment in the hall, and I'm happy for it. A lot has been said. Like those who have spoken in this debate so far – and certainly in the rest of the debate – the Government's desire is also to strengthen efforts to increase the number of donors and bodies. There is no doubt, as several speakers have already pointed out, that more people need organ transplantation and that the waiting lists have been increasing. In 2005, as has been said here, a separate national coordinator was appointed in the Social and Health Directorate. This person has the primary task of getting more attention and not least strengthening organ donation training in the 28 hospitals authorised to do this. It is important, as many have pointed out, that health professionals have competence in how to communicate with relatives when the question of organ donation comes up. The Norwegian organ donation resource group, NOROD, which is well known and was established in 1992, is making considerable efforts, especially in the case of training for health professionals, including: in communication with relatives, as we know, is difficult. As you know, over 10 million were set aside for this year's budget. for tasks in the donor hospitals, including: for training. This I believe will also be of good help. In 2006, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health set up a working group to strengthen the development of competences and the communication processes among health professionals in donor hospitals, and also to develop a new training programme. There is reimbursement in input-driven funding for different types of transplants. Reimbursements cover part of the costs of transplants to regional health establishments. The remaining expenditure shall normally be covered by the basic appropriations. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has been given a mandate to assess whether the current ISF system adequately performs organ donation. A report shall be drawn up documenting the real resource use related to organ donation, including the process up to the organ harvesting and to the organ harvesting itself. This will be compared with what today's ISF system actually covers. If major deviations are identified, different instruments may be considered, such as: additional refund or higher DRG refund. I will return to this once we have received the recommendation of the Social and Health Directorate. The mission documents of regional health establishments aim to increase access to organs to transplants. It is clarified that the regional health undertaking is responsible for allocating sufficient resources to the task of donor-responsible doctor in the hospitals approved for this purpose. I am pleased that there is broad political agreement on this difficult but very important issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2084	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2088	I'm going to start the line in a strange way: I'm actually going to start by thanking the Council of State for taking the issue seriously. Things have begun to be caught since the fall. The Progress Party promoted this proposal in June 2006. It's been a fairly long time, but things have happened – fortunately – along the way. The problem is, we're not on target. We probably have a long way to go. That's why it's important that we follow this with the arctic eyes in the future, and that we like to say, follow the money, and you also see how things work. It is quite clear that the funding system related to the DRG is extremely important, including the registration system. My question to the Council of State is: to what extent will she follow up on the financial and registration related to the deaths of donor hospitals, just in order to do the job? The debate out there is very important in order to increase the excitement about this, and then the question is: What will the Council of State do in this area to get the debate going – and so that it continues?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2099	Like the representatives who have spoken in this debate, and as I know they have a broad commitment to the matter, I want to follow the developments in the eyes of the arctic on what is now actually happening in the hospitals, and what is happening in relation to the training of health professionals. I think it's also important that we have debates like this, and that we also talk loud about it in public space. That in itself I think is a contribution to more people taking a stand on such difficult questions and perhaps sitting down and talking about this before the crisis is there. That's an answer. As far as the funding system is concerned, I'm going to follow this up as soon as I get the report from the directorate. I have a very open view that if it turns out that the system we have today is not working well enough to get what we all want, namely that more people get what they need, I'm open to changing the funding system. There should be no delay on our part, and I can assure the representative that I am following this development with the Argus eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2106	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2111	The Health and Welfare Committee has long been concerned with this issue. It became, among other things, in our budgetary position for 2007, and we were there on many of the same measures that we are discussing today. But it is useful to go further – deepen and discuss further follow-up. I want to get into six points related to that. The first concerns the question of funding, in particular the work of donor hospitals. That's where we went into this year's budget to distribute 10.4 million. kr for the extra work around donations – training, learning to conduct the conversations that many have talked about, the transport of organs, teaming, free time for donor doctors, etc. We distributed the 10.4 million based on experience this time. But if we now get a reasonable way to capture the extra costs in terms of a DRG code, it's clear we're positive to it, if it can give us better efforts. But this year it is also very important to see what is going to happen to the money – that there is pressure on hospitals to use it in a sensible way for the purposes I have mentioned. In the amount allocated is approx. NOK 80,000 per year. Donation, if you'd come up in a measure like 130 this year. It is a high target compared to the approximately 76 it was in 2005 – and also, I heard recently, in 2006. So the first point is to get a better funding, see how the money this year turns out. My second point is that we need to get all parts of the healthcare system into the work on donations, because there will also be opportunities to capture donors outside the 28 donor hospitals – if there are drowning accidents, traffic accidents, brain bleeding elsewhere in the health system. There must also be the ability to conduct these conversations, and there are methods to either use telemedicine or other means to obtain donations when situations arise in other parts of our system. I would also like to say, as a third point, that the national coordinator appointed must become more a brush in the system, must have a stronger role to play, must have greater opportunity to hustle around in order to get things to happen when this work is not going well enough. There is a need to investigate what the population really has problems with when they say no, so that we can get the information more focused on the reasons why people say no, and not just general information. There is a need to do something better in international cooperation. The European Commission has now started work on improving the efficiency and integration of organ donation in Europe. Norway should participate very actively there and ensure that the Rikshospital has the capacity to participate fully in international cooperation. The last thing I want to say is that in terms of organ trafficking, as we have seen examples in the media and on international websites, Norway should ensure that a UN Commission is set up that can create a clean cooperation and not a negative cooperation around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2126	Unlike the previous case, I am not disappointed in this case. I'm very happy. Then you get hope that things have settled completely. Perhaps the most important thing is that we have the debate, that we focus on a very important topic, which is very important for those who are in a donor queue. It is also important because it demystifies a little of the debate. The fact that we, as elected representatives in this Chamber, can take this debate is very important. I would also like to pay tribute to TV 2 which in many ways started a new debate on this topic a year ago, when the search light was set on all those who are in line, the suffering associated with this, and that we have an actual challenge that we can do with. Therefore, it is important that we constantly focus on the issue, that when we are done with this matter today – when we have dealt with it, we have made some decisions – we do not leave it lying down and see how it goes. We can't have it like that, because then we lose focus. What we have to do is keep this theme warm. We have to make sure that we now look at the funding system and actually do something about it. We must ensure that, when this decision is taken in relation to the build-up of competences and training in hospitals, we actually ensure that this very difficult conversation can be made – with the relatives in a very difficult situation. Furthermore, it would have been desirable – and I take the opportunity – to invite the Council of State to work together on what we can now do to bring about changes in attitudes out there. What can we do to get the debate on? It would have been desirable if perhaps you had made a wide range of efforts both politically, from the Ministry and the Council of State, from the side of the Storting – at least from my side I am fully open to it – and hopefully could also be able to get the media with us, even if they are reasonably absent today, with one exception, in order to get a very good and objective campaign. Let's go out and get this conversation started, so it'll be easier to access donors. Let's keep quiet with open cards and say, yeah, we have a hell of a lot to learn from. Let's reap the experiences that others can give us. At least we're open to it, because this is a field of infinite importance. One thing is that it can reduce the cost to society of treatment. But think how much joy it can give both those who can contribute to saving a life, and not least those who can receive an organ, which makes everyday life infinitely much easier. I hereby invite you to this cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2139	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2149]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2155	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2164	Today we are going to consider a Document No. 8 proposals, from representatives of the Progress Party, to establish so-called OPS projects related to future hospitalisations. The proposers argue that completed hospital investment plans have not been implemented as a result of state acquisition of hospitals in 2002. Never before has so much been invested in new buildings and equipment as after the introduction of the health enterprise reform in 2002. It is invested for about 30 billion dollars in new, modern hospitals throughout the country. OPS projects based on private financing through private loans will be more expensive than public funding, which will have a lower interest rate. A private developer shall also have a profit on its investments and operations, on which a public developer would not rely. OPS projects will result in less flexibility, as the public authority cannot cancel the lease without charging it financially. Less flexibility will lead to lower efficiency and thus higher cost. In addition, we can see that private operators are going bankrupt. Thus, the public authority would not be able to require the remaining part of the benefit, such as: completion and follow-up of operations and maintenance. Transformations and developments in the health sector are increasing. The OPS projects, where there are long contracts, will result in reduced flexibility, poorer adaptation to changed assumptions and not least the need for repeated renegotiations with private developers. The majority of the Health and Welfare Committee believes that future investment must also be a public responsibility, and that no hospital projects can ‘shut in line’ – thus binding on the future operating budgets of the different health regions. In the State budget for 2007, the government of Stoltenberg announced an increase in depreciation from 60 p.m. to 80 pst. in the period 2008-2010, which means that one can invest for DKK 1 billion more per year in the hospital sector in the years to come. This will enable one to realise more than foreseen many of the new development projects reported by the RHFs. In addition, Sylvia Brustad, Minister of Health and Health, has been given the advantage that Health South and Health East should be merged into one regional health enterprise and that economies of scale should return to operations/possible investments in the new health region Health South-East. This will also help one to realize a new hospital in Eastfold faster than would have been the case with two regions, which we have today. The proposers also show that one has not managed to finance new investments in the Molde hospital. Health Mid-Norway is promised 140 million. kr for a permanent increase in income in the basic appropriations. The amount shall be escalated between 2008 and 2010 and, within the current limits, EUR 15 million. NOK for the planning of a new hospital in Molde. The government of Stoltenberg is increasing not only the resources of the health care system but also the investment rate in the years to come, in order to achieve the objectives set by health businesses. The majority of the Committee considers that the increased disadvantages of more expensive financing, such as a deterioration in budgetary management, complex contracts, increased costs of private profit and supervision and control, the possibility for the builder to go bankrupt and the long duration of such contracts must necessarily have, do not balance the possible positive aspects of such financing. We therefore propose that the proposal in the document should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06.ana.ud392e2190	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is immediately running. The President will propose that the meeting now be cancelled, and that a new meeting be set at 5 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
