ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e37	The representatives Olav Gunnar Ballo and Petter Løvik, who have been authorized, have taken the seat again. The formerly suspended alternate of the State of Oppland, Johannes Rindal, has taken the seat again. It summons the deputy representative of the Buskerud County, Beate Heieren Hundhammer, has a teke seat. From the representative Borghild Tenden there is an application for welfare leave from 16 January to 22 January. The President proposes that this application be dealt with immediately and accepted – and sees it as agreed. The first alternate for Akershus County, Inge Hallgeir Solli, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinget. Other alternates, Lisbeth Bøhler, are proposed to meet during the leave period. – It’s to look at as affirmative. Lisbeth Bøhler is present and wants to take a seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e78	The President will propose that a seat president be elected for the Stortinget meeting today and for the rest of the week – and see it as agreed. The President will propose Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not in line, and Solveig Horne is elected by consensus as the seat president of Stortinget’s meeting in the present week. The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e85	On behalf of Martin Engeset, Kari Lise Holmberg, Bent Höie and myself, I would like to put forward proposals for measures to ensure the necessary labour immigration and thus better access to labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e90	The representative of Arne Sortevik will present two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e93	On behalf of the representatives Per Sandberg, Bård Hoksrud, Tord Lien and myself, I have the pleasure of making two proposals – one to restore the main depot for oil protection on Fedje and the other to remove mercury in wrecks after submarine U864.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e98	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e116	When I promote this interpellation today, it is based on a heartfelt desire that we should be able to launch a national policy that can set a standard for how to create accessibility for all in Norway. How can we create physical availability, and how can we ensure that this is reflected in all public planning and proceedings? We have come sadly short here in the country in creating a universal design that affects transport and accessibility. It is necessary to carry out a policy change which results in products, buildings, means of transport and the anthropogenic environment being designed to be used as widely as possible by all citizens. I believe that the ideal in Norway must be that the physical environment is designed to take into account the entire population, including people with disabilities, regardless of the cause of disability. I am currently the leader of the Nordic Council's disability policy selection. Until I started working on this field in many ways, it has been an unknown world for me, but this work has given me the opportunity to gain insight into a political sector that has revealed shadow pages that I was not familiar with, and where I record that the concept of «imperty» particularly affects the many hundreds of thousands in Norway who have impaired their ability to function. Norway has an impressive degree of professional participation. That's 75 pst. of the adult population in Norway is at work, and it puts us almost entirely at the top of the international techsicht. But at the same time, we have between 700,000 and 800,000 working-age Nordics who are out of work. It is a serious problem for those involved, but it is also a major challenge for Norwegian society. According to the Central Statistical Office, there are about 455,000 people with disabilities in pre-employment in Norway. It is estimated that approx. 15 pst. Of the Norwegian population aged between 16 and 66, some form of disability — that is, a very high number. Although luckily in Norway we can adorn ourselves with a very high degree of professional participation and low unemployment, we have great darknesses and many hundreds of thousands of Northmen living in the shadow of success. Only 46 pst. of the disabled at pre-employment age are in work, and very many of them work, naturally enough, part-time. The number of the fresh ones, as I mentioned earlier, is 75 pst. and increasing, while it is too downward with regard to the participation of people with disabilities — I repeat: it is too downward. The modest unemployment rate in Norway today is a small problem measured against the many hundreds of thousands of people in pre-employment who are on the outside of work every day and who have their origins from social security or social assistance. Even with an abundance of safety networks and systems for the Nordics most in place, the integration of disabled people into the labour market is not particularly successful. Perhaps the word "failed" is more comprehensive for the situation. What can this get off of? Otherwise, we are so good here in the country as to focus on the concept of ‘integration’. We simply need to find more and better solutions that give people on the outside, or who are on the way out of the defined success, an opportunity to participate in the world of work. We have to give these another chance. The number of non-working-age Nordics, and the number of disabled people who do not find a solution to getting to work or school, is so great that this should cause great concern and a violent political debate in Norway. However, this debate is taking place in disciplined and calm forms within the political environment and to some extent among those who are particularly interested. This is a very bad thing. The wealth of money we have in Norway must not make us think that it is okay that so many hundreds of thousands do not find an entry into the world of work, and that so many are simply forced to live by social security or social benefits. There is still ‘a long way to go before people with disabilities are assimilated to others in Norwegian society’, says Professor Jan Tøssebro at NTNU, who has been working on the report ‘Full participation for all? [[...]] These sectors are characterised by a lack of organisation. For example, only 7 pst. of the Norwegian housing stock fully accessible to wheelchair users. In the public sector, it is often only exceptional that today’s organisation, in 2007, is a fact. Of course, although this is not the case, disabled people face several exclusions, especially in the transport sector. More points to the need for an anti-discrimination law for people with disabilities in Norway that will prevent new barriers and break down existing ones. I am not going to answer whether a new law is the way to go, but we must at least, as a minimum, be able to set some norms that open up in order to realise the concept of 'accessibility for all', and which also have a greater impact on public procurement policy. If people with disabilities are to have the chance to reach a job, accessibility needs to be required. For example, we must no longer let the monopoly company NSB, which provides billions of services for the state, escape. It is necessary to require equipment to facilitate, for example, wheelchair users, in the same way as a coach carrier in its calls for tenders must provide services requiring facilities. My question to the Council of State is natural enough if he is willing to follow up in these areas. Let me give you an example: in the 2005 competition to run the Gjøvik track, such demands for accessibility for disabled people were made, and these were met. On the other routes for which responsibility is given to the NSB, such requirements are not imposed. This picture shows that political Norway needs to engage in better dialogue with the organisations of the disabled, which they themselves also ask for in order to gain greater influence and better results in these areas. Of course, it is expensive to make the terms ‘accessibility for all’ and ‘universal design’ a reality that includes wheelchair users and hearing or vision impaired. There's little doubt about that. However, estimates in this area are very uncertain. I have seen that State Building has calculations that illustrate significant costs in this area. Others operate with completely different and lower numbers. In any case, it is deplorable to note that the public sector can hardly be said to be a driver of this policy of organisation. In view of the current labour market situation, an accessibility policy, a public organisation policy, will provide a significant labour force resource from the ranks of the disabled. Such organisation could have the added effect of bringing thousands out of the social welfare system and into the Norwegian labour force. If Norway does not succeed in a new policy in this area by giving this group a new chance, we know what happens to people who do not get to participate in the work and who feel that society's message is that we do not need them. In the broadest sense, there is an outsidership this is about. If we do not succeed in facilitating and integrating the hundreds of thousands of disabled people, this is simply a major defeat for the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e142	Let me start by saying that I fully agree with the interpellant that it is an important topic that is put on the agenda, and I am pleased with an interpellation that gives us the opportunity to discuss an important topic in Stortinget. In the fall, the government issued a big message about work, well-being and inclusion. The notification addresses the policy of strengthening employment and includes people who have fallen out of or are at risk of falling out of the labour market. Disabled persons are an important target group for the single payment notification and the Government promotes in the notification several measures that could contribute to increasing the participation of disabled people in the labour market. As part of increasing professional participation among disabled people and ensuring that people with disabilities can participate in society in line with the rest of the population, I agree with the representative of Kristiansen that increased availability of transport and construction is important. The government is also working on several measures to contribute to increased accessibility in the disability community. I see it as very important that the universal design principle be applied when new products are designed or purchased, buildings are listed, etc. Universal design is based on the goal of equality through equal opportunities for all. Every day, decisions are taken that have a significant impact on the daily lives of disabled persons. Universal design shall ensure solutions that meet important quality requirements and are designed for all, including disabled persons. The design shall be inclusive and take into account different user assumptions. The concept of ‘accessibility’, which is also used in this context, has a somewhat narrower definition than ‘universal design’. The aim is to ensure that disabled persons can participate in different activities, often based on specific solutions for specific groups. The Syse Committee, in NOU 2005:8, has promoted equality and accessibility, proposing new disability-related discrimination and accessibility laws. I am currently following up on the bill and will promote an odelstingsproposition on this. Getting a law in place is important to prevent discrimination against people with disabilities. Among the Syse Committee's proposals is the introduction of universal design requirements for all new buildings, facilities and outdoor areas aimed at the general public. The Syse Committee also proposed that existing buildings, facilities and outdoor areas targeted at the public should be upgraded to universal design by 2019. The proposal covers not only public construction measures aimed at the general public but all types of measures which, according to their function, are public-oriented. This part of the bill is now being assessed by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs with a view to strengthening the building and implementing rules of the Building and Building Act. The costs of introducing requirements for universal design deadlines for existing buildings, etc. is under investigation. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of the Environment are also working on other proposals to ensure universal design and accessibility in planning and building legislation, and assesses, inter alia, proposals from the Syse Committee and the Committee on Building Law to include universal design in the purpose of the Law on Planning and Building. According to the plan, the proposal to this effect shall be promoted during the year for the Storting. Current planning and building law requires accessibility in public buildings. The rules are expressed in technical regulations. According to the general rule of this Regulation, the design of construction shall provide good facilities for the use of orientated persons and persons with reduced mobility. It further requires access, technical means, means of communication, etc. shall be designed in such a way that they can be used by persons with reduced mobility and orientation. For the elderly and immature constructions owned by the State, state buildings have developed a plan of universal design with rapid progress. This plan is systematically followed. A minority of the Syse Committee also proposed the introduction of deadlines for the universal design of new and existing transport and ICT. In the context of the follow-up to the legislative proposals of the Syse Committee, the Government also investigates the possibility of imposing universal design/availability deadlines in these areas, too, in or in connection with the new Discrimination and Availability Act. In the case of passenger transport services, the Ministry of Transport today buys passenger services by train and aircraft, as well as maritime transport services with Hurtigruten and the national road transport operators. Tenders are used for the purchase of air and maritime transport services, while the purchase of passenger services by train is based on framework agreements with the NSB supplemented by annual purchasing agreements. When purchasing these services, accessibility is required as far as possible. In this context, I can mention the EU bus directive, which requires that all newly registered buses of class 1, so-called urban buses, be accessible to people with reduced mobility, including wheelchair users. The Directive was incorporated into the Norwegian vehicle regulations in 2004. I am pleased that we, among other things, Here in the city begins to see the results of this requirement. More and more of the buses are now available to everyone. The Labour Environment Act provides for the organisation of workers with disabilities who, as far as possible, require the employer to take the necessary measures to enable disabled workers to obtain or maintain work, carry out and progress in the work, etc. This increases the opportunities for people with disabilities in working life. Public procurement legislation was amended in 2006 and entered into force on 1 January of this year. Both the law and the regulation impose a requirement on State, municipal and county authorities and bodies governed by public law that universal design be taken into account in the planning of procurement. Whereas it is up to each undertaking to decide for itself which needs to be met by an acquisition and which product best meets the need; whereas the consideration of universal design must now be part of this assessment; The Government will therefore ensure that the legislation contributes to the dismantling of the physical barriers faced by disabled persons in society. At the same time, we will have more labour-oriented measures and services to reduce the threshold into the labour market through the general use of tools and adapted actions for the group. The changes we are now implementing will therefore produce visible results. The government has great ambitions to ensure greater accessibility for disabled people. This is the case in society in general and in the labour market in particular. Equivalence and non-discrimination are important values for this government. It's also a paradox that we haven't been able to include more disabled people in our working life. It's a problem for the individual, but it's also a problem for society. We can and shall not sit and watch. The government will therefore meet this first and foremost with the aim of promoting, during the year, its own anti-discrimination law for disabled people who will have as their theme the universal design requirements of both construction and construction, transport and ICT, while at the same time having strong ambitions to increase the participation of disabled people in the work, well-being and inclusion process through the NAV reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e185	I thank the Council of State Hanssen for a thorough answer, and it is probably also right to say that it was an offensive answer. I am aware that the responsibility for the terms ‘accessibility’ and ‘includement’ lies with several departments. It is also interesting that the Council of State refers to St.meld. No 9 for 2006-2007, Work, well-being and inclusion. I have a great deal of understanding for that. So this is a rather thick and comprehensive book on hundreds of pages. This illustrates that the Council of State has a considerable and broad responsibility. This call for proposals addresses unemployment issues, sick leave in general, rehabilitation schemes, skills requirements, responsibilities of the doctor, integration, immigration issues or challenges, the drug sector – i.e. very many and heavy responsibilities. What is my starting point when I am addressing this is that I think it is a problem in Norwegian administration and Norwegian policy that the challenge with regard to disabled people and people outside the labour market is politically linked to many other heavy challenges in Norwegian policy that are so heavy, whether we are talking about somatic hospitals, health companies and all those areas, that much indicates that people with disabilities as such are at risk of being at the bottom of the political ladder in solving all these political challenges. I think the main challenge is that you have to be able to follow up some of the laws and regulations that have already been passed. Follow-up to the Law on Planning and Buildings must be taken into account. There is no lack of previous constructive and positive decisions, including: during the treatment of St.meld. No 40 for 2002-2003, which was well discussed in April 2004, the current Government Party proposed that all new concessions in the transport sector should require accessibility for disabled persons. I am not sure whether the proposal that was put forward then has been followed up. But I'm recording that you have an ambition, and that's positive. As long as professional participation is too downward, and there is such a large group of people in Norway, in all our success, which falls outside, that means that there is a long way to go. The goal must be to get the arrow pointing down, at least to flatten out and point upwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e196	I think the representative Kristiansen has a very important point when he points to the fact that for many years we in this room have had the best ambitions and the best intentions. There is no doubt that there have been relatively many debates in different contexts here in the main hall where there is expressed very good will. Then the representative Kristiansen has a solid point when he claims that despite this good will and the good ambitions, progress is not going in the right direction. Of course, this is a problem primarily for disabled people, but in many ways it is also a problem for political Norway, the political system, that ambitions cannot be translated into active action and results. That's why I think this year we're going to challenge ourselves by raising a discussion and the question of whether we're going to use the most powerful instrument of all we have, namely the law as an instrument to get results out of our ambitions. That is why there will be a demanding debate for me and the Government, but also in the next round for Odelstinget, in dealing with the proposal for an anti-discrimination law. Because then it's a question of having to set a deadline in which we not only have ambitions that purchases and investments from some point in time should be universally designed, but where we use our most powerful instrument, the law, to ban and possibly impose penalties relating to investments from a certain point in time that is not universally designed. I think we should do that, because I think it has to end – I don't know if it's a parliamentary expression, President – what I called the investment of madness, that is, that we spend a lot of money investing in things that are not universally designed and that will not cost more if we do it right from day one. We just have to man and woman up and set a date – and say that from now on it is over. The challenge is far greater when we also decide whether to set a date, that is. from a given point in time, all existing buildings, installations, means of transport, etc. shall also be provided. be universally designed. I think I would say that in this regard, I have to think more about – I have to get back to it – because there is a lot of investment related to this. But the year we've started is going to be a big and important year for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e205	Since the late 1960s, accessibility has been discussed. In 1976, more than 30 years ago, rules on accessibility were introduced in the Law on Planning and Building. Since then, shocks have taken place, including: St.meld. No 40 for 2002-2003, Destruction of disability barriers, and the Universal Design Action Plan, 2004; In 2005, the Nordic Council approved ‘Design for all – a Nordic action programme’, and in April 2006 the Council of Europe approved ‘Action plan to promote the rights and participation of people with disabilities: improving the quality of life of people with disabilities in Europe 2006–2015’. The UN has also taken decisions on accessibility. On my trips abroad, I have discovered that this is largely a topic on the political agenda – to a greater or lesser extent. Many countries have come much further than us, and I am constantly learning something new. Last week I was in London with the committee. The hotel elevator buttons had Braille. I always like to know these little buttons, and I wonder just as much every time: how is it possible to know the difference? For me, the buttons are just generally knotted. Anyway, when the elevator stopped, it was announced which floor we were in. Only then did I think that it is actually not enough to know which button to press. If the elevator is full of people, it will stop many times, and as blind or feeble you will still be dependent on help, as long as the elevator does not tell you which floor you are actually in. Such thoughts are unnatural to me, who do not have the problems. I need someone to put me on the idea. But we have all these ideas clear: a number of laws and regulations have been adopted that deal with the subject. National Transport Plan 2006–2015 contains an accessibility programme. The education sector and kindergartens have been given a general obligation to organise. Development agreements provide for universal design requirements. Universal design should now be included in the planning of new public sector jobs. In addition, there are laws of their own, e.g.: work environment law – to mention something. Why is it so slow? How was it possible in the year 2000 to build a train station or a cinema that is not accessible to everyone? My experience as a municipal politician is that the politicians – at least in my municipality – are concerned about this, but we are more concerned about it than what the administration is. For us, it has been absolutely necessary in every construction case in which the municipality has been involved to include the council of disabled persons and the elderly. The Municipal Council has adopted this. Nevertheless, time and again we experience that when a sample, Presidency or local authority is to deal with a construction matter, there is no consultation input from the council for disabled persons or from the Board of Senior Officials. The administration gives different explanations as to why it doesn't. And we are warned against postponing the case, as it can delay the construction process and degrade the project. In my municipality we have had ice in our stomachs: we have consistently sent the matter back, with notice that the advice should have dealt with it before it comes to final political treatment. What we as a whole political environment have gained from this is, first of all, that clear guidelines for consultations have now been incorporated into both councils, and that this is largely done without explicitly telling us about it. But the most important thing we've achieved is enough that the new nursing home, the new school and the newly rehabilitated swimming pool are made available to all of our inhabitants. In fact, these buildings would not have been available to everyone if we had not used the advice as a hearing body. We know what we need to know, and we have a lot of people out there who are experienced experts -- who like to share their experiences with us. If we as politicians are careful to use them, there's no reason we shouldn't be able to have a society that's accessible to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e222	This is a very important topic, and I have to say that the Council of State's last article was encouraging in terms of the willingness to cut through. As others have pointed out, there is nothing wrong with the political decisions and the political ambitions, but unfortunately the instruments you have chosen do not seem to reach them. Universal design is really about placing responsibility for the lack of accessibility where it belongs, namely in society – not in humans. We're all going to meet physical fences in the course of our lives in some way, which means that we're being hindered in our movements. Therefore, universal design is not just a matter of facilitating people with disabilities today, but of facilitating a society that more includes everyone. However, once again, even if objectives have been adopted, although this has now become a fifth objective of the national transport plan, one sees that decisions are taken every day that go in the opposite direction. The latest example is that the Flytrain ordered 16 new cars for half a billion kroner, without remembering the criticism given when the Flytrain ordered today's fleet. This was the big thing that I don't think any of us have forgotten, at least not those of us who take the plane train almost every day, and who themselves experience – even with a little suitcase – how hopeless today's carriage equipment is. Those sitting in a wheelchair must have the help of a conductor with special tools and tools to get on the train. Nevertheless, the Flytrain is ordering 16 new vehicles that are exactly the same as they now have. It makes me think of State Building, which built a pavilion with wood from the rainforest, and Minister Meyer, for once, did not do what was usual, to say that this was stupid, this was contrary to the political decisions, this we shall follow up next time, but he actually asked them to tear and build new ones. It might seem pointless, but I think it had a powerful signal effect on future decisions in that organization. Therefore, perhaps the Minister of Transport should say to the Fly train that this is contrary to the guidelines for communication, and let the Fly train AS take the financial burden by cancelling the ordered wagon trains and getting hold of new ones. The same applies in relation to the development of stations. In the case of Lysaker Station, it was even marketed as a station with good accessibility for the disabled, without the disabled themselves being involved in the process. So it turned out that the station, which is one of Norway's most trafficked, after billions of investments, had major problems with availability, among other things. a large gap between train and platform, which is not only a problem for disabled persons, but it is directly dangerous for other passengers as well. The same applies in relation to Asker station, which was produced as a precursor station. It was done very well, but the disabled themselves were not enough in the process. This led to visual impairment markers leading straight into a walkway. Fortunately, the disabled are involved in the design of the Ski Station. Probably one will thus avoid such losses. This weekend there was a travel life fair at Lillestrøm. The Handicap Association was present. Only 20 out of 800 exhibitors had an offer that was arranged and available to disabled people. Therefore, the last articles of the Council of State should lead the Government’s action in these kinds of cases. I think one of these is going to have to make some examples. For those who do not follow up fully elementary knowledge, it shall be strongly condemned, not least if one does not involve the disabled in order to obtain advice from those who are the foremost experts in these matters – in the same way as the local authorities, as the previous representative pointed out. There should also be a clue for the Government in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e241	I would also like to thank the Council of State for a very offensive response. Norwegian society is not equal. The group that is perhaps the most discriminated against is people with disabilities. I have asked myself many times: how would it have been if, for example. only 70 pst. by the suburbs of this city had let in other people's groups? Then it had become bumpy. I believe that one of the reasons why the disabled are in this situation is that the sea of all is in agreement with the heart, is that it is politically harmless to discriminate against them. I don't know what to do with us – if they're going to run over us with the wheelchair, beat us with white capes, or refuse to receive the social security. They have few political means to put in anything but a political view of value that says treating the inhabitants of society equally, and we have to construct the whole society after that. There's a lot missing. This isn't about a new chance, but about equal opportunities. This is equality policy, not primarily discrimination policy. Social policy should only support it. So for this with the purchase regulations, which have been taken up here. I agree with the views of the representative, Höie. A new public sector procurement legislation has now been put in place which has a universal design as a requirement. But the question is whether this legislation is, in fact, strong enough. It remains to be seen. The example of the Flytrain may be a test piece. I fully agree that here you have to use much stronger lye. When you buy something that does not meet these requirements, you must be told to do it again, just as you did in the case of rainforests. There has been some criticism of the absence of anti-discrimination requirements in this legislation as well. You have that in other countries. They've kind of realized that buying as much discrimination as we do, even in the public sector, is stupid. The United States is a leading country in this area. They have realized that the market can be used for something positive. I have to admit that in the last period I was very surprised by the previous government, which was very strongly dominated by parties who believed very much in the market, because when SV suggested that we should stop buying discrimination and use the purchasing power of the state and the public to leave it alone, it was not taken into account – but enough about it. In order to have a claim for anti-discrimination – that the buyers should have an ethical standard in relation to anti-discrimination – there is a need to measure it against. It leads me to working with the new law and the laws we have otherwise in terms of discrimination in society. It is an opportunity to introduce what is called an activity obligation in the laws, which means that one somehow has to prove that one has a non-discriminatory practice in its activities. If you introduce such an obligation, you have something to measure it against. Then you can also add that kind of requirement to the purchasing rules. I think there is reason to say that the public also as the employer has to use stronger lye than we have done up to today. That is why the report on enlargement which the Committee is now discussing is very important. However, although we clearly signal and want other employers to view the disabled as an attractive workforce, the state must do so too. The state has set up a trainee program to look for the good, newly-trained heads that may have wheelchairs or need Braille, and are in the process of doing so. Telenor has been running with this for a long time. I want to challenge the State and the Council of State to be even tougher when it comes to using tools in employers' policies to really show that this is attractive labour. In fact, they're no more sick than the rest of us. They have a reduced function in some area that can be overcome. So finally, information: In the information area, there are very large gaps. The representative, Kjönnaas Kjos, mentioned the lift and, to put it that way, simple information there. But this is also about having access to all the public information that we others have. It's actually something as serious as being an assimilated individual, with the same democratic rights as others. If one does not get that information, one actually does not have the opportunity to be equal in these areas of society – perhaps in the political debate, perhaps to get work, perhaps to participate in other arenas. So equality and universal design in relation to information are just as important as trains and buses.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e260	The interpellant discusses a very important topic, namely how we, as a society, are building down the barriers to the disabled, so that they can participate in society in the same way as others of us. The IA agreement should have been a good tool to increase the number of people with disabilities. The results so far are discouraging. We are pleased that the Government has extended the IA agreement, so that disabled people get a more independent life, and in the workplace they get a frequently expanded circle of friends and their social life. The new welfare Communication has several measures that will enable more people to participate in the professional life. The organisation grant is an important tool, and often it is such that only a small change can lead to doing a very common job. The trainee programme to be launched, I also have great expectations. But it doesn't help much with work, if you can't get there. I think the Council's response was very positive and offensive. It is now time for the common good will to be put into active action. The interpellant has a good point when he expects demands to be made, among other things. to NSB. The new station at Lysaker shows how short one more has been. I am asking the Council of State to note the contribution from the representative Bent Höie, and ask him to see if it is possible that it is not too late to do anything about the purchases of the 16 new wagons. I think it is positive that the EU bus directive is now being implemented in Norway and that it is at least starting to work in Oslo. It shows the important principle that what is good for people with disabilities is usually good for all of us. Accessibility for disabled people leads, for example: to make small children’s parents with baby carriages easily on and off the bus, which makes everyday life easier for them as well. I also want to underline what the representative Karin Andersen said about the need for better information. Here it is a great potential for improvement. The Christian People's Party supports the work of a new anti-discrimination law and looks forward to its coming. When I got into the Storting almost ten years ago, it wasn't easy for a disabled person to get into the building here. Even worse, it was coming up to the pulpit. Often the Riksantikvaren was used as a good excuse for not doing anything. But I think it's been political will to make small changes. It's starting to go in the right direction, and I'm very happy with the changes that have been made here on the Storting. I think it is important for the state itself to take the lead in setting good examples. We have to sweep even better at our own door. I am also happy, on behalf of all disabled people, that we are so united today. It promises good for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e279	After this debate, I can also record the broad consensus on the need for a stronger legislative and regulatory framework to ensure universal design. And it's important that we can stick together on this, because it'll probably also help us show a degree of action when we move on. Better accessibility for people with disabilities for transport and construction is a benefit to society as a whole, through increased labour participation and greater opportunities for participation in society for the whole population. In fact, there are also cost reductions for society in creating accessibility. Although the measures needed must be implemented by municipalities, counties and workplaces as well as at home, it is our responsibility as national politicians to facilitate the national framework through legislation and legislation that ensures the implementation of all responsible parties. The interpellant is quite right in that, and as the Council of State pointed out in its response to the interpellant, we are already on the move. Later today, in Stortinget, we have a hearing on the communication of work, inclusion and welfare. That's where we're going, among other things. meeting a number of organisations that are just going to make representations about whether we have properly complied with our ambitions in terms of access to the labour market, above all, for disabled people in that context. There are several points to the fact that the public has by no means been a good lead actor in the provision of disabled work. One thing is the state, another thing is the municipalities. There's every reason to look at how we can do a better job of getting more people out of work, and it's important that the public go ahead, and that it's not, as one now often might get the impression, that there's someone who's depending on contributing to inclusion. When it comes to responding to interpellant questions about accessibility to transport and construction, it will come first when we get the Anti-Discrimination Act and the follow-up to the Syse Committee's position in place here. I record that the Council of State indicates that we will receive a follow-up to this already in the autumn. In my first year in the United Kingdom and as a member of the Labour and Social Committee, I have met many times with people who have pointed out with great seriousness that the good words are not followed up by actual action to contribute to accessibility – in public transport, in public space, in working life – to disabled people. It's a problem that we have to do something more with. The Syse committee has given us an excellent basis to follow it up. As a representative from Akershus, it is also natural for me to look at what we have done, for example. on the public transport side of Oslo and Akershus. In this region, we are totally dependent on a well-functioning collective service to be able to take part in employment, participate in social life and take advantage of the leisure facilities available. Then it is sad to note that the planning of the Lysaker station does not in any way meet the requirements that all of us today have to meet, that we have to order new trains for the Fly train that do not meet the requirements, which I only now register, and that we recently opened a new great cinema on Lillestrom with which we were all delighted, but where disabled people had to use the goods elevator and the entrance and have the help of the staff at the cinema to have access. There is so much to be done in this area that we look forward to the follow-up that the Council of State has so offensively announced today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e304	The starting point for the Left's policy is a fundamental respect for the individual's freedom of choice and dignity in all phases of life and situations. We are committed to combating discrimination in all arenas regardless of the basis of discrimination. But this is not enough. As a society, we must facilitate full equality, regardless of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation or disability, and ensure equal opportunities for participation in all areas of society. The Syse Committee, mentioned here today, handed over its position ‘Equality and Availability’ in May 2005 to the then Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum, who quickly sent the proposal to the hearing. Since then, little has happened, and the Government has postponed the follow-up to this very important document until the autumn of 2007. In the meantime, we have, among other things: has been refurbished by Karl Johan, who needs to be refurbished, we have got Lysaker station, which will not have a satisfactory accessibility solution without the Government intervening, and we have got new cars for the Fly train that do not work for them with wheelchairs. As the interpellant points out, this concerns a lot of people. In order to underline the point, I can mention that when the Ministry of the Environment had an offensive against the municipalities in 1999, called Planning for All, it was calculated that everyone in Norway has on average had to expect to live with disabilities for 14.6 years of our lives. Now the population is as left sees it, not by average people, but the number is nevertheless well suited to stress that this is a matter that concerns us all. The point is that when we plan to make it easier for a wheelchair user to get there, it also makes it easier for most people. When information is communicated in such a way that it also reaches those with impaired vision and hearing ability, it also makes it easier for people most. It is this understanding that underlies the concept of universal design, which is defined by the Syse Committee as the design or organisation of the main solution in the physical conditions so that the general function of the activity can be used as much as possible. Most jobs in this country are not in public buildings. Fortunately, most people, whether disabled or not, go to cafes, cinemas or football matches more often than in public offices. Therefore, the Left considers it very important to follow up the Syse Committee’s proposal that it is not just public buildings, facilities and up-to-date outdoor areas that should be universally designed. It is also necessary to require the main solution in all constructions, facilities and up-to-date outdoor areas, whether in public or private, as long as they have a general function and are aimed at the public in general. In particular, it is important to follow up the proposal on clear deadlines. At the same time, universal design needs to be required in terms of transport and information and communication technologies. There must also be a general requirement for universal design in public procurement, both of goods and services. Today, it is a paradox that technology, such as the enable computers to use for those with impaired vision, are available and are widespread, inter alia. in the United States, while machinery sold here in the country does not have the necessary components because there is no universal design requirement in Norway today. In the opinion of the Left, the position of the Syse Committee meant two very important main messages. The first is that the issue of the exclusion of people with disabilities is a matter of discrimination and thus a violation of human rights. The second is that it is established that non-availability is discrimination and therefore also a violation of human rights. Thus, a long and steep staircase without an associated ramp or lift, a theatre or cinema hall without a telescopic loop or a mini-bank that is not possible for the use of faint eyes is discrimination on the same lines as a place of outdoors not letting in homosexuals or people with a different ethnic background. In the past, the Council of State has said that it takes time to present legislative proposals that prohibit discrimination and impose universal design, including: because it is necessary to assess whether existing construction requirements are problematic because they have retroactive effect. In view of the fact that it is possible – which we all agree on – to strengthen the requirements within, for example: environmental and fire safety also for existing constructions and activities, it is difficult for the Left to understand that the Government should consider this principle as more important than removing the main barriers to people with disabilities who want to study, work, live and live in harmony with others. However, today's response by the Council of State carries out a stronger offensive, in the form of law. We look forward to a new and tightened planning and building law, new regulations and new regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e328	First of all, I would like to thank my co-representatives for their participation in the debate and the ambitions of all of them in this participation. I think, as many people have said, that there may not be a lack of regulations, regulations and laws, nor a lack of information, which is the main problem. I think that's more than enough of decisions, rules and information. At least nothing can be used as a special excuse for the examples mentioned here by the representatives of Kjos, Höie and Woie Duesund. How is it possible that today we still see the most serious examples in the public domain of adding to the objectives that have been adopted in this area? The Council of State must simply give an instruction to all public institutions in the practice of the Planning and Building Act. The hearing opinion of disabled people’s organisations shall be held in place before a decision is taken. I also believe that the Council of State must – as the example given in the demolition of building materials from the Red List, i.e. from the rainforest – provide some examples of horror and warning, so that in the future we will release such examples as mentioned here from cinema, train station, air trains, etc. This is finally going to be a kind of democratic problem. We have so many hundreds of thousands out of work. We have 455,000 disabled people in pre-age employment in the country today. Less than half of them participate in the professional life. How, in the name of democracy, is it possible that we are tacitly able to set such strong limits that it simply goes beyond participation in the most important of all, namely working life, for all of these? We have to do something about this. With background in St.meld. No 40 for 2002-2003 a follow-up list of 120 concrete actions was adopted. I just register that there is nothing missing. There is nothing wrong with the decision, but there is a lack of follow-up. Then this is about our ability, and perhaps most of our will, to give these many hundreds of thousands of people a new chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e339	I also think that the debate I have listened to has been interesting. I take with me the signals that have come in the direction that more people in Stortinget are concerned that the competent expert councils around should look into investments that have occurred recently. I'm going to make sure to convey those points of view without that I, who is not the responsible Council of State in those areas, can give some answer as to how it will be assessed. I just want to comment on a few questions at the end. The interpellant asks me to design an instruction. Well, as a state council, you might sometimes think that the country could be governed that way, but it's probably a little bit more complicated than that. The background to and analysis in the Syse Committee's investigation is that legislation and regulations are too weak, especially in situations where there is a great need for strong enough legislation. That is why the conclusion of the Syse Committee, which we in the Government agree with, is that there is a need to use the law. There is a need for a separate anti-discrimination law. Then, of course, I agree with the interpellant that we can do more, not least in the form of the state as an employer, the state that buys, etc. There's probably no doubt that we don't have to sit and wait for the law. We can start doing things faster. So some comments on the post from the Left's representative. Well, I can take responsibility for a lot, but that Lysaker station has become as it has become, I think it is demanding for me and this government to take responsibility for. The lighting station is fully planned under the previous government. The left should know it very well, not least about the person who was responsible for the whole plan, because it was the Minister of Transport of the Left. There I find it unreasonable that criticism is raised against me and this government for the consequences of what the previous government and the Left's own Council of State stood for. So that it takes a long time: the hearings on the NOU were concluded by the new year 2005/2006. It is a fact that in the NOU there is no question of universal design related to ICT and transport, because there were minority proposals in the Syse Committee. That is why we are now in the process of investigating it, and we aim to present a legislative proposal during 2007. It is a rather rapid follow-up to a comprehensive and demanding issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e352	The interpellant debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e370	In September 2006, I sent a written question to the Minister of Health that we are constantly hearing about disabled people who are not getting enough help, and about the huge differences that still exist in relief measures in the different municipalities and health businesses. Some of the background to the question was related to the results of the nationwide supervision of the paediatric habilitation service by the State Health Authority. The supervisory reports from the country's municipalities and hospitals showed many deviations. In particular, these were related to the lack of coordination locally and to the lack of interaction between the first and second line services. Deficit relief measures and shortcomings related to individual levels were also identified. In response, the Council of State shows that work is in progress on reviewing the strategy plan for families with children with disabilities. It's positive that this is done. She's pointing to a continuation of the Tact program. This includes, inter alia: a competence-enhancing action aimed at case handlers concerned with the follow-up of the possibilities under legislative and regulatory frameworks for integrated and individualised offers. Furthermore, the Council of State refers to a strengthened local economy, the provision of care and care services to be increased by 10000 annual works compared to the 2004 level, and it refers to the further development of the competence and quality of services, as mentioned in the Storing Communication on the care services we have received for consideration in the Committee. Finally, the Council of State refers to projects under way in the field of specialist health, including: child rehabilitation, and health care businesses have been asked through the order documents to give priority to and strengthen the provision of habilitation and rehabilitation in general, and to pay particular attention, inter alia. child rehabilitation. I refer to this answer because it has no comments or solutions related to the many deviations that the State Health Authority has pointed out, which relate to local coordination, lack of interaction and lack of relief measures, etc. It is precisely the offerings in everyday life, where families live and live, that are essential for a family to be able to create a worthwhile and good life for the whole family. A small example from an e-mail I received recently: Twenty years ago, a boy was born in South Africa. Three months later, the boy is dying, but he's being saved to a life like a disability. The parents wanted all the resources to be deployed to save the boy. Little did they understand the extent of the fight they've fought since. In the South there is an offer for children with disabilities. Here's the age limit 18 years. In most cases, the problem of children older than this is solved by itself. Few disabled children have lived longer than this. When this boy was eighteen years old, the mother was told that he was too big to stay at the relief centre he lives on while the parents are at work. There was no offer for her son. Now he's moved to a temporary institution for disabled children. This is a transitional offer for the boy to be moved to a new institution to be completed in 1.5 years. The mother did not want him to get used to a new place to be moved again a year and a half later. What was positive was that the municipality was willing to pay to have him at the institution where he was, where he was known. But the health company said no. In her struggle, codetermination was gone. I would add that there must then be a total lack of cooperation between the first and second line services. I will also quote from a letter I received from a man with ALS. He writes the following: «From the diagnosis to the present day, there has been an unnecessary struggle every day with the rigidity of the municipality, county and social security office with the paralysis and total lack of seeing the human being with the deadly disease ALS, and its family. We have been in the basement many times physically and mentally because of this when you get a 2-5 year diagnosis to live again, you don't have enough time to wait up to 4 months for answers from the public, or for answers to applications for aids." [[...]] I would like to address today in particular the area of coordination of services with the Council of State. I have recently been in contact with several families, such as my family. have been told that the woman carries a child with disability or illness. The shock is, of course, big and the questions are many. None of those I've talked to were given particular information about the condition the child in his mother's life would have after birth, possible development, relief measures, etc. The Internet became the main source. But it is not at all that the Internet is suitable for providing good information or for relieving parents with minimal knowledge of a state of illness or disability. So how can this be solved in a simple and good way? Some time ago, I myself called for the establishment of an advisory position at the hospitals. As far as I know, only Ullevål has a similar position, where a protective caretaker has such a function. She advises and informs the families immediately after they have been informed that they will have a disabled or sick child – preferably already while the child is in Mother’s life. She answers questions and prepares for repatriation, including: by contacting and meeting with community assistance services with their parents. On the municipal side, I would like to suggest that the municipalities establish a coordinating position, which will be the natural contact with the hospital counsellor, and that takes a coordinating responsibility for the family when mother and child come home. The coordinator can pull in threads, follow the family over some time. Many will probably need close follow-up for perhaps 1-2 years before they feel that all the wheels are running, and then if necessary. Many tears and frustrations will be avoided. The parents have more than enough to take care of the child and possibly other children, if they do not have to run from place to place, as they do today. There are many examples of a family with disabled children today having to deal with dozens of instances, and they are totally uncoordinated. My question to the Council of State is also today whether she would like to consider such proposals and facilitate their implementation, because in some way some political action is needed to put this in place. I can also mention that, as the rapporteur-in-Office of the Council for, and strongly involved in, the provision of care, this will be proposed in the vote. Finally, for me, work has been done to facilitate a better everyday life for disabled people with dignity, and it also has to do with human dignity. We must never give up the struggle for the strengthening of human dignity. It's about standing on the side of the weakest. At the same time, people who have extra challenges are some of the strongest people I know about. They deal with life situations that many people don't think are possible. Often, they have no choice at all – life requires it. We need to improve the conditions in our society in order not to increase the burden of service provision, pain relief and other conditions in an already burdened everyday life. On the contrary, we should facilitate that life may become more -- let's say -- viable, actually good for these people as well, for these families. It's primarily about being met as whole people, and with respect, because every single person has an infinite value, regardless of age, health or function.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e405	The government is working to ensure the quality of life of disabled people and their families in line with the rest of the population. This applies not least to disabled children and their families. As Minister of Health and Welfare, I am responsible for a sector that has a major impact on the quality of life of these young people and their families. Of course, I have a responsibility to ensure that the health and care services of this user group are well coordinated and organised. I can immediately say that I am aware that this is not the case in all situations. As you know, I am not responsible for coordinating the overall policy of the Government for people with disabilities. It is the Minister of Labour and Inclusion who has. The Minister for Labour and Inclusion coordinates the follow-up to the Strategy Plan for Families with Children with Disabilities – from Bondevik II in 2005 – that the representative Davøy naturally knows very well. A number of actions related to this plan are now being implemented, under the auspices of several ministries. There are measures aimed at helping disabled children and their families to have the same opportunity as others to live as maritime and active a life as possible and to participate in working and social life. We know that these families often need assistance from different parts of the public. This concerns health and care services, where medical investigations and treatment are to be provided, not least information and training — an important point, as I see there is a need to strengthen some places — and psychosocial support and relief when necessary. In addition, for many, multidisciplinary rehabilitation services, technical aids, social services, special pedagogical assistance, childcare and school services, leave schemes, financial support schemes and assistance to solve housing problems are important. I know, of course, that families with children with disabilities often have extra major challenges in their everyday lives, and it is also important that the child is investigated as early as possible, so that follow-up and cooperation with parents can be well planned. I believe that then the parents are a resource to be used. It shall not be such that they are not listened to in such situations. A woman who waits for a young person with disabilities must be sure that she as well as the child will receive individual follow-up, both during pregnancy, at birth and during maternity, if desired and necessary. In cases where the diagnosis is made in pregnancy, the pregnancy is regularly followed up until birth. The need for personnel and competences at birth needs to be clarified as early as possible and needs need to be assessed in each individual situation. Then, of course, it is important to listen to the woman and her family. The Social and Health Directorate points out that one type of standard follow-up or national guidelines would not be appropriate, but that it is important to provide a good offer for each woman, tailored to the need. Some young people will need examination and treatment of a specialist shortly after birth, and this needs to be facilitated. Furthermore, the paediatric clinic or paediatric surgery department will be responsible for establishing contact with the habilitation service. Young people needing long-term and coordinated services have the right to develop individual plans. It shall ensure cooperation between the relevant services and service providers. The parents and, where appropriate, the young seafarer have the right to participate in the levelling work. The health company and the municipality must ensure that there is one person – I stress one person – who is responsible for coordination and progress in the work on an individual level. But I'm aware that this doesn't always work like that in real life. We're going to follow that up! The Social and Health Directorate has now revised the guide to the regulation on individual levels. It came in 2005, and the target group is primarily those employed by health enterprises and the community’s health and social services. But it can also be most useful for recipients, relatives and stakeholder organisations. The supervisor also underlines the need to cooperate with non-governmental health and social services. I think, like the interpellant, that the Health Authority's reports and investigations show that we have some way to go before everyone who has the right to an individual level, and who wants it, actually gets it. I'm taking this very seriously. We have to make sure that we get it into place. I also believe that families with children with disabilities or chronic diseases need guidance and information, and not least they may need to meet others in similar situations. At the National Centre of Competence for Learning and Mastering at Aker University Hospital, a family project is established in which families can meet in similar situations. The family project also offers families with a minority language background. User involvement is the whole starting point of this work. As part of this family project, a website shall also be established where parents and close relatives can find information and contact other families in the same situation. This website shall be opened at the end of March of this year. Otherwise, as you know, the Kindergarten Act has a provision that gives children with disabilities the right to priority admission to kindergartens. This preference applies in both municipal and private kindergartens, but there has to be expert judgement. I have been informed by the Ministry of Knowledge that this seems to work well. Pre- and post-school school leave schemes shall be available to municipalities, as is known, for the first to fourth years of age, and for young people with special needs, provision shall be extended up to and including the seventh year. It shall facilitate play, cultural and leisure activities adapted to the age, level of function and interests of young people. The school leisure arrangements shall also provide care and supervision, and the law specifies in particular that children with disabilities ‘should be given good development conditions’. It is important that this is followed up. Municipalities have a very high responsibility to ensure the creation of well-coordinated and well-organised measures and services for disabled children and their families. Therefore, as the interpellant was also involved, we have continued the training offer to the municipalities in 2007 through the TaKT programme. The programme shall provide case handlers and other enhanced competence and insight into the family situation. It places great emphasis on user involvement and a holistic and multidisciplinary approach to families. I believe this is very important in order to avoid additional burdens on these families in relation to health and social services and other sectors. I do not think that there is any good situation in which many parents who are already in a rather difficult situation have to spend time and effort to find out in the system, and that many long-distance shipping have to coordinate the offer, which the public utility really has to do. The government will contribute to better coordination, in cooperation with the municipalities. The government will contribute to the actual achievement of the necessary relief and assistance for families with complex needs for help. I believe that through the Tact bet, we also have the opportunity to strengthen the work on an individual plan. I'll follow up this bet, and we'll get it evaluated in the course of the year. As I have previously informed Stortinget, the Ministry is considering changes in the strategy plan for families with disabled children, and the TaKT programme will also be assessed in this context. I also, of course, fully agree with the interpellant that it is important to have good assistance and support arrangements for young people and their families in this situation. We have also said something about this in the care message, for which the interpellant is the case rapporteur. There's a lot for the elderly, but also for disabled children and their families. This applies, for example: in the housing market, too, where municipalities have a responsibility to ensure that housing is provided where it is desirable and necessary and that such planning takes place in such a good time that relocation can take place when the time is right. We also have a working group that looks at leave arrangements. Many people contact me and say that it is difficult to make life go up. That is why we, together with the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Employment and Inclusion, consider whether we can do something about these leave arrangements. I think that's an important point. This work also includes issues related to how families can be secured with an economic basis that can enable them to care for young people and help them to maintain their link with the labour market at the same time. In the end, a few weeks before Christmas, I met someone from the film «Jenta fra Oz», which was shown on NRK TV just before. They felt, like quite a few others, that the offer had failed, and they wanted us to listen to their experiences. I do, and so do many others. I agree that parents and the family are a resource in such situations. They are a resource that must also be used in meeting the auxiliaries. We're going to try to contribute to it being done in practice as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e445	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I really feel like the Council of State wants to grasp this in a good and holistic way. I agree that parents are a resource, but what's my concern today is to make parents manage to be able to be a resource on a permanent basis. It's those who know best about the child, and we have to listen to the parents and their situation in a much better way than today. I would first of all like to say that, in terms of the fact that the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Inclusion coordinates the overall responsibility, that is probably the right thing. At the same time, we have major challenges only in the health sector. Coordination within municipalities and between the first and second line services is poor. I'm talking primarily maybe right in my post for the sickest sick, those who really have multifunctional disabilities. What's also happening, which makes it incredibly important that you look across each other's borders, is that many parents have to search again and again. A letter I received was about a person who had to apply every six months for technical assistance and for relief measures. I have even heard that some municipalities have fallen to two-month relief decisions. And then you often get a rejection at the social security office. It is completely incomprehensible that you should both have to apply again and again, that you have to complain again and again. The coordinator I'm talking about is going to be a person who can help these parents with all this paperwork, and maybe also be one that understands. I will not say that they do not understand the social security office, but it is in some way not health and care workers sitting there. Often there will be paperwork. And then it could be that you may not have written the application just as it says in the law, and then you get a rejection. I get letters by letter. Some parents do not even have the power to write letters, but they call and ask for meetings because this is so tiring. If we had someone who came in and met the parents of disabled children and took control with them for the very first few years, as the parents wanted it to be done, we could have laid the foundation for a really good life with a good quality of life, which the council was also concerned that families with disabled children should also have in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e458	I fully agree that there are challenges in health care, not least in the cooperation between specialist health services and municipalities. I also tried to say in my main post that that is not all that works well, and I take that very seriously. There is a great deal to coordinate, that public coordination is needed, and that they are involved, not to operate and fly from place to place and to submit an application for assistance. I note what was said here about the developments in the length of time it takes to take some decisions, and I will pass that on to the Minister of Municipal Affairs. Now the municipalities are responsible for how to do it. But there are signals that we have to take seriously, because everyone understands that it puts them in the right place, in a rather difficult and hopeless situation. Time should be spent on things other than running and sending applications or flying from office to office to make sure they get what they often legitimately need, so we're going to follow that up. When it comes to the question that it is important that it is followed up from the start, I fully agree with that. That is why the work on individual levels is so important, both that there should be one person to deal with, that an individual plan should be created, and that it should be followed up in close consultation and cooperation with the people involved, of course. In the case of the proposal for a coordinator in the municipalities, at least the Government may not adopt it in relation to the municipalities. Whether it is through NAV or it is done in other ways, I will not take a decision on that. But that in many municipalities there may be a need for one person to coordinate, I agree. So we agree to try to find schemes that make the situation better through better coordination. I also take with me the proposal that the representative has on the advisory position at the hospital. I'll assess that. Obviously, there are variations in how many we talk about, and in how much need will be in the different hospitals around the country, but I promise to take it with me, and I'll see if it's possible to set up some more such posts where there's a greater need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e471	First of all, I'll be allowed to give the interpellant some credit for raising this interpellant debate. It is an important debate. There is a debate that is going on and must be going on all the time, because here we are dealing with many unresolved issues. But what we should perhaps begin to conclude with -- I think everyone in this room agrees on -- is that every human being is as much worth, regardless of function. If we have it as a starting point for this debate and what we're going to work on, I think it might be a good start. I must also say that I had of course hoped that there were more people in the room and took part in the debate, but I believe that all the representatives at Stortinget have the focus that they want to do the best for individuals and their everyday lives. Actually, it's not enough just planning. One thing is the provision of health care, and as you grow up and move into your own home, you are given housing, and you are also taught. But the thing is, this is about so much more. It's about our everyday life. It's about how we can participate in other arenas than just living, getting a health offer and possibly an education. Both the Councils of State and the undersigned are young children's parents. We know that already for us who have been so lucky to have healthy children, it's hard to participate in all of those arenas where we would like to participate with our children. Then we can actually also get into that situation and think: what about those who have to do so infinitely much more to make sure that you can be more at home with their children to try to follow them up? They must make sure that the municipality has an organized offer and that it has the means to do so. They will have that in addition at all times. On these arenas, it's very important that we put a lot of effort into the time that's coming. You can only imagine the situation related to pay for care. We have a system today for all municipalities to provide care pay, but we do not say anything about the level of care pay. It's up to each municipality how much they spend in their municipal budgets. You talk about a supervisor. But the supervisor is primarily meant to be a guide to those who are working on this. Maybe we're going to put even more emphasis on developing better information material for parents and relatives in such a situation? It gives out information material, but maybe we should try to think a little bit more completely based on what might arise. It is also about how to get in touch with other parents who are in the same situation, i.e. both user involvement and other things. It's also about how we're going to get better into, among other things. the planning of the municipalities. It goes to schools and construction. We have clear rules that are related to it, but it could be the small solutions as well that can do so much better every day. Then there's one thing that's quite obvious -- the Council of State was in on it in its answer here -- and that's that it's the Council of State in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion that's the overwhelming one. But when we start looking at this, we see how many sectors this is really about. We've already been into health, we've been into the work and inclusion part, i.e. the NAV offices, we've been into the municipalities, and there are so many other sectors as well. So maybe we should think a little bit more about just the cross-sectoral, and we have to try to do even more there. That's what I think I can be part of the key here to move on, because I'd like to go along with my own supervisor for parents who can just get in this situation. I also think the piece of advice attached to hospitals is a very good idea, also for the municipalities. I'm not sure you should have your own year's work. I think we need to build skills, among other things. towards the NAV offices. It will be the NAV office that will be the superintendent that will have to come in. I think we have to look at what has to do with the piece of competence there. Finally, there is so much I had wanted to say in this case, but I have to try to conclude a little: The ombudsman scheme related to mental retardation is something that has been requested by many. The parents of the Oz film girl, who also had a meeting with members of the Committee, have just mentioned this. The matter solved well for those parents. Finally, they wrote to us that the municipality has actually managed to get it. This is what we're going to take with us. It's doing very well, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e490	I would also like to thank the interpellant for bringing up a very important topic. We've just had an interpellation debate about universal design and accessibility, which is very close to being able to construct a society that allows these children to use society like ourselves, and not least their families, so that they can act like a family, take the bus, go to cinema, do all the other things that we take for granted. It's a very important piece of it. These families are very different. They have different needs, ranging from children being able to go to kindergarten in the community and at school near home to the most complex medical follow-up. It is demanding for them and it is also demanding for the auxiliaries to assist them. That's why I understand very well the need that many people say they have for a coordinator function, whether it should be a person or what it should be. In the previous growing-up period, there were also contacts with Stortinget that showed that there were individuals, i.e. parents, who had this experience, who made programs and actually sold them to other parents with disabled children, because they did not receive the necessary help in the municipality to coordinate. They became experts, and they sold this product to parents who felt so helpless and poorly cared for that they chose to buy a perm with such a scheme. It tells us a little bit about the great need that is. This applies to many different areas. I've had a lot of contact with Frambu, which is a center for special, rare disabilities, i.e. they're just a few cases of, and where the knowledge of the different communities is small. It's kind of impossible to expect everyone to know everything about these cases, so it's necessary. But one of the things they put very much emphasis on when we talked to them was the big difference from the municipality to the municipality. They called for more rights and equality in this work across the country. In addition to that, they were, of course, also concerned about what the interpellant had to do, namely, this with the length of proceedings. A lot of people experience that they have to appeal and appeal. And then they finally get a pass. But it's about taking these families seriously. I think there is also a need to have some kind of tightening in the whole apparatus, from the granting of care allowances to services. It seems that the system is a little giraffe at keeping as much back as possible instead of having an attitude that says that our task here is actually to make the lives of these families and these children as equal as possible to the lives of those who are functionally healthy, and it is our job to make sure that they get what is available, not to limit it as much as possible. There are also problems related to the rules on care allowance. Some changes have been made by this government. But it's clear that there are some transitions here, for example. That when you pass 18 years, the court falls away. Some of these children, especially those with what is called – it’s such a difficult word that I almost can’t help saying it: progressive disease, that is, getting worse and worse and then every door – live longer now than they did before, but they die. Some of them are now 18 years old. The situation of the family changes dramatically, but not in practice. There are some of these crack points that we have to look at. The same applies to the transition to secondary school for some, where the school leave system may not work well. Linked to secondary education, this may not work well enough either. This government has also made some changes to the Working Environment Act which allow the use of special turns for part of, for example: user-controlled personal assistant related to the needs of these families. It has also made this scheme available to children. I think that's incredibly important. It is also incredibly important to limit to the extent that you do it the number of people who are supposed to be involved in personal life – come home and almost participate in family life. Therefore, the changes that have now been made to the Working Environment Act, which allow such special tours, are very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e507	The provision of school leave for older children with disabilities is perceived to be inadequate in many places. § 13–7 of the Training Act states that municipalities should offer a school leave plan before and after school for 1–4. years and for children with special needs from 1st to 7th stages. The provision of SFOs for disabled children and young people is very different from municipality to municipality. There is no legal right to the SFO for children who have completed high school. However, for many people with disabilities, the need for SFOs remains as important and equally important when going to high school or high school as they are in childhood. The municipalities that have a financial opportunity to offer a good offer to children and young people even after the seventh grade do so. The municipalities that have a tight financial framework choose this option because they are not required to make an offer to this group. Some experience that good offers are taken from them in connection with the budget work in the municipality. This is an unsustainable situation. There is an unnecessary demanding situation for parents, and, most importantly, there is an unsustainable situation for disabled children and young people. I would like to point out three points: firstly, many parents of disabled children are active. Families must be guaranteed the right to supervision of the child, with a level and quality compatible with today’s career pattern. This is because many of these children and young people are unable to go home and live alone after school, but require adult supervision. It is not right for parents to be forced to work reduced because the situation makes it practically impossible for them to be able to participate fully in the labour market. The situation of single-parents with disabled children becomes completely impossible. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring parents freedom of choice; the opportunity to choose a combination of professional life and work in the home. This also applies to the maximum extent to this group. Parents with disabled children have pointed out that an extended school leave system is essential for combining work and family life. We must take that seriously! Secondly, the school leisure system is the starting point for the smallest children — from 1st to 4th class. At the same time as the parent payment has increased in recent years, the share of 3rd and 4th - classifications using the SFO have been lowered. This means that the number of children in the SFO is getting younger, and the age difference between the disabled and older children with disabilities is increasing. Disabled children should not go to SFO with students from 1st to 4th grade when they themselves have become young people. It'll be an extra load for them. Thirdly, the Training Act states: ‘The school leisure arrangements shall facilitate play, cultural and leisure activities based on age, functional level and children’s interests.The school leisure arrangements shall provide care and supervision to children. Children with disabilities shall be given good development conditions. Areala, both outdoors and indoors, shall be suitable for that purpose.» Good enough growth coverage to ensure the safety of children is not enough for disabled children and young people. They need supervision far beyond normal age. There should be a manning standard that ensures adequate growth coverage and well-qualified personnel. For families with disabled children, the SFO is not a voluntary offer, as it is for families with children without disabilities. The need for SFO is persistent for many entire training courses. Parents of children with disabilities do not have the same opportunity to give priority to this arena. This, in turn, means that families of disabled children have expenses that other families can give priority to. Children with disabilities must be guaranteed the right to a social arena where they experience acceptance, community and friendship. The SFO may be such an arena. These are children who have little friends in the community. The offer must apply from 1st grade and out of high school, and meet the needs of normal school time and all days of school holidays. I encourage the Council of State to focus in particular on the SFO for disabled children, and in particular to focus on quality, reduced price and that the offer in some form must apply throughout the school cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e536	It is very positive that interpellanten Davøy focuses on families with disabled children and their everyday lives. These families have to experience that they get organized offers in everyday life, so that their lives go up both economically and in time. Public care services shall provide security when the individual is affected by illness or disability. Society must facilitate the best possible care for its dependants. At the same time, it is important to be responsive when families report the need for public assistance. Unfortunately, today it is often such that the auxiliaries can operate both impermeable and insensitive. A few years ago, the Rikstrøgdeverket – I think it was – had a survey among this parent group, where half of them replied that the fight against the auxiliary equipment was the greatest burden. We can't have it like that! The left considers that the municipal relief, holiday and care pay schemes are not good enough for this group. Help is often small for the individual family. If the need for care is so extensive that one of the parents sees a need to quit paid work, he loses not only salary but also the possibility of pension points, holiday pay and other rights. Therefore, it was with great interest that I heard the Council of State mention this working group that was set up to look at precisely these things regarding parents who are in a job situation. If the family receives a weekend’s relief, it can often cost more than a month’s care allowance. It's not in a reasonable proportion to what the effort is worth, and what to save the public for if the option had been to throw the cards and ask society to take over. For some, there is a solution when the child has reached the age of authority, and the public has to deal with adapted housing and considerable care responsibilities. Perhaps many people could have been able to postpone this if they had received more support and help in a previous phase – before they were exhausted. Social security offices also often experience a lack of competence and sufficient knowledge of different disabilities to make good decisions. At the last big shot, the Left had four main slogans. One said, "More to those who need it the most." Families with disabled children are obviously in this category, and need increased support for new welfare benefits for all of us who have paid work and are doing us well in everyday life. The left is the party of local democracy over something, but in this area we are discussing whether the state should take greater direct responsibility. We should all admit that, regardless of the government and whatever the political colours of the local governments, we have come to terms with many of them. For this ageing period, the left has committed itself to an extension of the care pay system for families with disabled family members, and is pleased that we are not alone in this. More specifically, it should be possible to make good decisions for more than half a year at a time. This is also mentioned by several who have spoken here today in this matter. Many people experience applying every six months as stressful and exhausting. Instead, disclosure obligations could be required if circumstances changed. If a child has Down's syndrome or spinal cord, it won't pass! The major challenge in many municipalities is that they are too small to possess the necessary skills and financial resources to provide adequate assistance to resource-intensive users. Intermunicipal cooperation can be an opportunity to get to relief centres that become good enough, have enough competence and good enough economy to run in the long term. However, short-term operating arrangements mean that many do not dare bet. Private parental relief offers can also provide good solutions, and it is important that the public can facilitate such cooperation. It's about accepting, meeting, seeing and walking along with parents and children in often extreme situations of life. Obstacles must in this way be broken down. The individual family needs to be focused. Public and voluntary solutions, as well as private ones, must be opened up for the benefit of the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e575	This is an important interpellation affecting a good number of families, who face a number of challenges each day to get their everyday lives together. The municipalities around our country have very varied offers for these families. There are a number of tools, support schemes and relief services. Based on the contacts I receive as a member of the Labour and Social Committee, the problems seem to be: 1st@item: inlistbox It is difficult to get involved in rights and offers.2. Finding the right place for each measure is arduous and challenging.3. It takes too much time between the application for action or assistance being sent until it is actually launched.4. Too often a refusal is made, and a family has to appeal decisions through several rounds, while time goes by.5. Measures may be changed along the way in line with the finances and priorities of the municipalities. The infancy can be quite as weary for someone and everyone. Therefore, families with disabled children must receive the necessary help. This is important for parents to be able to work. It's important for the sibling to avoid that the disabled person always gets left with a feeling that things don't get the way it should be because of me. It goes without saying that this is important for the disabled person. The most normal life with the greatest self-esteem possible must be our goal. Just before Christmas, the Labour and Social Committee received a letter from a mother with a disabled daughter of 22 years. Her daughter had a day's offer, which enabled her mother to be in work. The daughter was quite ill, and then the mother had to be home to look after her daughter. There was a problem here that I had not thought about. You can't be home with sick children without getting paid when your child is 22. The municipality saved a lot of money for the mother to steal for her daughter, but the mother had to take the cost of drawing a salary. We have a lot of good offers for families with disabled children. What we need is to look at the individual family in isolation and make an offer that is tailored for the individual family. These families deserve to spend their energy on the child rather than on the bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e605	I would like to thank thedebateants for their good contributions and commitment, as well as the Council of State for the contribution she has made. With regard to the last post of the Council of State, I am very pleased with the clear view that the public has a responsibility and must coordinate, and that the Council of State says that she wants this, and that she should follow this up. I agree that this with an individual plan is very crucial, but it must be made, it must be followed up, and it must be done in cooperation with the parents. It must also be meaningful, but unfortunately we see that this does not work well enough. Now I hear there's going to be a review from the Council of State. It will be exciting to follow this work. When it comes to my proposal for an advisory position in the hospital, I thank the Council of State for so offensively wanting to look into this. I'm not really talking about the extent to which such a position is going to take place – it's going to depend on the size of the institution we're talking about – but I'm thinking where it's the maternity ward, and where it's the children's ward. I am talking about when parents have a disabled child, i.e. when the child is born – a little before maybe – or at least in the transition to the helper in the municipalities. It's really a strong need, and you don't get enough information. I'm just concerned that the offer as such should be given, whether you add it to a position you already have, or if you create a new one. The same applies in so far as the coordinator position in the municipalities is concerned. The Council of State then says that this cannot be decided by the Government. Well, it doesn't work today. There are regulations for example. nursing home designated as a nurse in each nursing home. That's one way to do it. You can also introduce a right for a patient or a person with disabilities, but this right can be difficult to realise if you don't have sanctions. There are a lot of rights today, like the right to rehabilitation and other things, that we also have discussions about, that are actually not being realised, even if the law is legal. We also see that in cases where there are sometimes penalties, it does not help with penalties for the person who did not receive rehabilitation, or for the person who did not receive a coordinated service. So I'm looking for some sort of creative way in the department, along with other departments, to find a solution that actually implements it, that the public actually coordinates, that they do the job that is not done today. I look forward to the work of the Council of State on this, and if I can somehow use my brain to be creative, I'd like to do it. I know that we are having discussions on this in the future in the context of the care notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e618	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. It seems like there's quite a broad consensus that a lot can get better in this area. I will try to take care of what I am responsible for. There is no doubt that what I am responsible for is, among other things, anything related to the social services law, except economic social assistance. Then there are some other things that are also very important, and that many have been about. I will pass that on to my government colleagues who are responsible for the various matters. Let me start by saying, as the interpellant, the representative, Nesvik and others, that the whole basis for what we had to do in this area, is that of course all people are equally valuable. It's at the bottom of everything. To what the representative Nesvik said about a parent’s supervisor, I can tell you that there is a very good factsheet created by the Social and Health Directorate, called ‘Good Solutions — What Is It?’. It's a pretty good book, but that might indicate that it might not be well known. Then we'll try to help make it better known, but that's probably what part of the representative Nesvik was concerned about. So that's what the representative Karin Andersen and others were into. Obviously, there's a lot of different needs here. That makes making standard solutions that you think fit everyone, I don't think is the solution. But I don't feel that anyone in the debate has mentioned it either. The representative Tørresdal and others were at the SFO, what an important role SFO plays. I agree. I think there's a reason to look at the quality of that offer in some places. I'm taking with me the signals that Tørresdal came up with, whether SFO should be longer for kids with different disabilities. I shall pass it on to my colleague who is responsible in this area. Then there have been several people who have felt that the fight against the auxiliaries is going to be the worst. Then something is fundamentally wrong. That is why it is also important that we make an overall approach to this, across all sectors and across all departments. The government is working on it right now. It's also about the question that the representative here was about how we're going to solve it when the kids get bigger and are sick. It's one of the things we look at in terms of leave arrangements, that you have an economic basis so that you have the opportunity to take care of your baby even when your baby gets a little bigger – if it needs to. Finally, the representative of Davøy addressed advisers and coordinators. I think we're in complete agreement. It's just a matter of finding practical solutions that actually work, whether it's in the municipalities, in the hospitals or in other places we have. That's what we have to work on together.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e637	The interpellant debate is therefore closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-16.ana.ud2651e667	Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
