ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e32	I want to start by -- since we had a good tone towards the end of the previous debate -- giving homage to a government council that places a lot of different issues on the agenda, and as a matter of course it seems unfair that the opposition sometimes appears as if it does not appreciate that attention is being drawn to topics and issues that deserve it so much. When the Government acceded, it was stressed that it was necessary to seek broad support in the Storting in addition to the parliamentary basis, to pick up input and bring the opposition to advice. It would be a delivery gel that would make sense to follow on this question, as the opposition's role is not only to be critical and to ask questions of pure self-interest, but that it actually comes into contact with many who, in response to the blatant majority, feel that they are not being taken on board, taken seriously, or see that practical policies are crystallizing in the areas where action is promised and action is announced. In the area raised here today, the difference between reality outside the ministry offices and this hall on the one hand and the outside world on the other has not narrowed. Of course, the crisis of rising expectations has not diminished with ever-increasing public budgets and less accountability for individuals, while basic societal tasks appear to be insoluble. There is no good reason to apologize for the failure of public authorities to deal with the threats that have been allowed to develop in parts of a growing security industry. Had it not been for TV 2, there is unfortunately reason to believe that the work on this had still been in the drawer. And it's reassuring to see that single journalists on TV 2 seem to have a better overview of the situation, and that the work to prevent and combat what we see now has been almost driven by dedicated individuals. We have also seen a flap hunt on sources of leaks, which are partly understandable. But it's okay to hope that the work effort to do something about the grey zone in this industry is related to this source hunt. In relation to Stortinget, I'm not going to say that the government misinformed about the threat picture that part of this security industry represents. It is possible that parts of the government apparatus perceive our demands for feedback on what to do, as an untimely mass, and that we ourselves should have intellectual capacity to figure out most of it ourselves. I can admit that we probably feel like we are calling in the woods – and get the answers we sometimes deserve. And of course, the media has its own interests. But over the past two and a half years, the media has repeatedly revealed a disparity in the information we have here at the Stortinget about the situation in the security industry and the MCs not long ago. The government, as I see it, has given the impression that most of it is under control, both in relation to the MCs and in relation to the safety industry. The Soria Moria Declaration has some principal interpretations of the relationship between public and private when it comes to enforcement, and has actually used the debate on the security industry to cover over the fact that the public has not fulfilled its responsibilities over the years. Several governments are responsible for this. But this government sits by a majority, and has not yet shown an interest in taking this debate to an appreciable extent. The fact that the Storting must base its decisions and budgets on real information about the situation is also a general debate. It was almost not a word about this in the budget presented, despite the fact that scandals have been in the security industry over a year and a half. My question is, then, how does the Council of State assess the danger posed by these private companies and the MC environment – they also cross and cross – and not least how it will ensure that the Stortinget and the granting authority and the legislative authority are provided with sufficient information that can provide the basis for adequate budgets, without having to beg and ask for answers. I'm also going to put my question into practice a little bit, so that we don't just get a general debate where we clapp to each other's shoulders and are happy to see that something is serious. The most important question, to which we may well know the answer – hope that there will be a few more openings today – is about jobs that can ensure that centralised control will ever come into place, be ear-marked, or find other methods. What does the Council of State think can be done to remedy the reasonably variable policy that is seen in individual police districts overseeing, and licensing, watchkeeping and orderly services? Supervision must be central to ensuring equality of laws. Today, for example, you can. to be approved as an orderly guard in a district, but to be refused because one is not fit in the neighboring district. That means that a criminal can shop around where the control is the worst. Then the question is whether the Council of State will ensure that it acts against the companies that advertise services that they do not have the concession or are allowed to perform. There are quite a number of people waiting for it, and it's okay to hope for an answer when it's going to happen. I have also seen for myself how companies that hire doorkeepers, both conduct harassment of guests and contribute to crime, either via others or themselves. Is the Government planning to subject them to the law on watchkeeping activities with the training requirements applicable in the case? When will it come? So the question is also: Do you want to add that companies that have approval are available on the police websites, contain information about when they were approved and when they were last checked? When, if any, does it come into place? As I see it, there is a need for the Academy to be officially approved. The primary school must also be able to carry out the same background checks as the company. It is very small purpose to go to school if you do not qualify for a job afterwards. Then there is a question of whether it is that the weights today have completed approved training. I have been given some indications that the Vachterschule also acts as a form of cartel activity by the fact that the four large companies have the opportunity to prevent the emergence of smaller companies that act seriously. In England a real clean-up in the industry has been achieved by making each operator personally responsible for work without a licence, and that is something you should also consider doing in Norway. In conclusion, the custodians can obtain an extended certificate of good conduct, and the police would like to see it checked. According to the Data Protection Authority, the problem is that this is personal data collected for a specific purpose, namely employment, and they believe that the certificate should be grounded when it is added. This may be a point in relation to a central approval for control. In the past, the Council of State itself has said that a system should be introduced to allow lists of employees to be washed against central registers. However, it is also good to ask how this is assessed in relation to work. The representative of Dørum was concerned about something fundamental in a previous debate today, namely the way some of the weights act. I know that there is a principle starting point for all parties that that way is completely irresponsible. And I hope we don't get a debate about unnecessary use of power, because I think we all agree on that is perfectly obvious, and not least when controllers in Oslo Sporvejer act almost – to put it bluntly – as twaper police. It may not be a parliamentary expression, but that is the popular expression for it. I hope we can avoid having a general debate on what public and private should do, but that we will have a debate on what control the public should have with the private security industry and also with the MC environments, which also operate in parts of this industry. Not least, I hope to get an answer to how this government has intended to ensure that the Storting as the top body in this country gets enough information to take the decisions and law decisions that we need to combat gross organized crime, as unfortunately, and as I said, it just looks like TV 2 has had an interest in revealing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e66	That's how the interpellation raises two questions. The first, as I see it, concerns the danger these environments actually represent, and the second concerns the extent to which the Storting is informed about this. I noticed that the interpellant in his post raised a number of other questions, and I asked for an understanding that some of those questions are reasonably technical and not quite simple to answer now as they have not been notified. I want to grasp what is the starting point for the interpellant's articles. That it should be TV 2 that has taken action, announced measures, from the government side, and that it is the only place to get information about this, I will take a great deal of distance from it. It surprises me a little that this is being carried out by the Right Representative. This has been a current problem long before TV 2 took it up. If you read the Soria Moria statement carefully, you will see that it is a theme there, among other things. the law on watchkeeping, and the background for that is just some of the results we see. The government's commitment to organised crime, both in terms of the issue of money and resources, which we have discussed earlier today, and the increase that is now coming, is based on the fact that we see a major challenge – and risk of major danger – precisely related to the MC gangs, the security industry and other types of organised crime that there is every reason to take seriously. The government’s commitment to getting closer contact, closer dialogue — and better agreement — with our friends in Europe, including the United States and Japan. Through the Schengen cooperation, our initiative to conclude both the Prüm Agreement and other types of agreements is based on the fact that we see these developments, which extend beyond borders. So here I want to take a great deal of distance from the fact that it's kind of TV 2 that should have started this kind of debate in a lot of ways. Our admission to the Police College – getting more qualified, trained people in the police – is also motivated by such a situation. It is also true that the implementation of police reform, which preceded the time of this government, is also reflected in the evaluation of police reform, which shows that there is a need to take structural action in the police — and structural action — in order to meet these types of crime challenges. So here we're not facing any new phenomenon. I also believe that these are challenges that are properly informed about the Stortinget. Because both the information flow and the information demand are so topical in this interpellation, I'm going to spend most of my time on exactly this. The danger posed by these environments must always be assessed on the basis of different criteria, and threats and dangers cannot be assessed on the basis of media projections alone. It's a paradox that the interpellant now highlights TV 2 as the only one who's kind of providing this information, when we know that what caused TV 2's security records was just a police report. So the police have collected this information. Then there is an ex-post debate on leakages and, to the extent that what is stated in the police report is correct. But it's not like you've brought in this information from the media. It's just the police that have gathered a lot of information. Some of the information is obviously not correct, but it nevertheless shows a serious situation. In the National Intelligence and Analysis Strategy of the Police Directorate — and since the inter-pellant is looking for information — I refer to the May 2007 publication of the Police Directorate — it is emphasised that strategic and operational analyses will provide management with a good basis for decision-making on effective strategies and actions and the best use of resources. This strategy includes, inter alia: threat assessments. The Police Directorate’s trend report on ‘Trends in Crime — Challenges in Norway in 2007–2009’, I also ask the interpellant to become acquainted with. It was published in January of this year. It is available on the Internet and describes the main challenges related to MC crime in the future. As Minister of Justice, I am concerned that the police are gathering and sharing as much knowledge as possible, where knowledge can be shared, and that this forms the basis not only for political debate, but also for the priorities of the police and the police districts. The police’s knowledge of these environments is based on intelligence and analysis, investigation, close cooperation with the community, and not least participation in international cooperation, as these environments can represent an international challenge. In the case of the MC gangs, in its 2007-2009 trend report, which I referred to, the Police Directorate confirmed an increase in the number of members – i.e. in a report that came in January. The increase is also mentioned in St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, where we emphasise that recent re-establishment of criminal gangs related to MC environments has been recorded. This increase is worrying, and I am therefore pleased that the police have knowledge of this environment. I don't think so at all that this is information that has been sought under the Storting in any way, all the time it's also passed on in the budget proposition. The Directorate of Police set up a working group with a mandate to draw up a report on the fight against criminal gangs in consultation with the National Advocate General. It is not public. The report, issued in March 2007, draws up a strategic framework for police districts’ response to the gangs, including MC gangs. The report has been sent to all the country's police districts and will provide the basis for the work of the districts on local strategy plans. It follows three objectives: to combat established gangs, to prevent new recruitment to established gangs and to prevent the re-establishment of criminal gangs. Here, good cooperation within the police is absolutely crucial, but it is also crucial that we get local activity against these kinds of reproductions. In particular, I would like to highlight what is happening in Upper Eiker, as regards this, where, among other things, the ministry. has held meetings with both the rapporteur and managers in the municipality. This may be important, for example: from a police council perspective, where the need to respond by other means than just the police is precisely seen. In the case of the grey zones in the private security sector, I assume that interpellant, among other things. Refers to the report of the Oslo Police District on the specialised safety industry. At the press conference on 4 September of this year, Oslo Police District stated on the report on the specialised safety industry: ‘Oslo police districts have seen, over time, an alarming development in the specialised safety industry. This led to an analysis of the development, actors and services of the police district’s strategic staff. The report contains intelligence information that is still being processed and describes some future challenges for the police. Part of the source basis is unverified data.’; I am pleased that the police also have intelligence information about the specialised safety industry. I have also answered written questions from André Oktay Dahl, question No. 144 dated 8 November 2006, to which I refer, information to the Stortingen on very important challenges for us. In the case of watchkeeping in general, I would like to point out that I referred to the Soria Moria statement. We are now reviewing the law on watchkeeping, which updated long before TV 2 started to file a case on the police material. It is also the case that the development of police data and material services with a view to developing data tools to improve the efficiency of police district work in the field of background control is well under way. There's a pilot running here in Oslo to check the reputation of those involved in these environments, up against the criminal record, and this was initiated and started long before TV2 started talking about this this this fall. I have been informed that during this year this pilot will be up and running, and there will be an important grip on how to get the opportunity to perform regular and effective background control – which I believe is absolutely crucial – in relation to the questions that the interpellant travels. I would also like to conclude by saying that with regard to the budgetary work of the Grand Duchy, the Justice Committee is invited every year to the Ministry of Justice to ask questions and get information not only about the crime scene, but also about the efforts being made. I register that last year, and also this year, the opposition chose not to take that opportunity. It is cordially welcome to come to the Ministry for this type of information, so that there is no lack of information when it comes to making important decisions that also concern these environments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e112	I could have said that I understand that part of this was technical, but this has been going on for two years and said it was under high pressure, and that most of it was known from before, when the Soria Moria statement was adopted. I really have to say that the commitment might be increased a little bit, because obviously you've known this for a very long time and you've been doing it for two years. The size has apparently been duly informed, but the budget is almost cumbersome about this. What you've seen is that the majority has one or two sentences in the budget position where they're very happy that you've been busy with this for a long time. Otherwise, there is no concrete action in the budget. Enhanced control proposals have been rejected in the past. It's also a fact that POD didn't work actively with this until there was a lot of media outreach about it. I would recommend the Government and the Council of State to follow up on what is actually happening in POD in addition to the circulars coming out. What must be the case here is that those who work on this in practice, those who work in the companies, and those who demand better control, cannot possibly have understood what the department is doing if you do what you say, here. I would recommend, if that's the case, that there's so much misunderstanding between what the ministry actually does and what they perceive, that the department and the Council of State intensify the exchange of information, so that you know what's going on. It is a general trend that things are getting more beautiful and beautiful the higher up in the hierarchy you get, but I have rarely experienced a matter where there has been such a disparity between what people who work with this, who have struggled with this for years, experience, and what you get presented when you have repeatedly dragged the Government into the Chamber to answer questions. It is not that the Stortinget has been duly informed on its own initiative. This has been a matter that it has not been clicked on at all. I'm really waiting for the results of the work you've been doing for two years. I hope that you read the minutes after this debate and include some of the recordings in my opening post, because it's no doubt known to most people who have been working on this for two years. So I'm going to make some final recordings. In relation to the work that has been going on for a while and on which there is a certain amount of pressure, I must ask the Government to ensure that, for example. SOME quality assurances the education that weights are given, that it is considered that a dot load system is in place for door guards and weighing machines, so that they can be unplugged and, not least, that they are taken immediately through the computer systems referred to by the Council of State. There's a majority in this house. The Council of State informs him when he is asked to do so, but it is a general problem for the Storting during this majority that you almost have to use thin information to get answers to what you are asking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e127	I believe information about this has been known for a long time. I have referred to it as being described in our budget, but also in other majorities, such as in debates and questions. Information had no need to be ‘diluted’. I also think it is deeply unfair to the former government, in fact, that they say that the police should almost have prioritised this work. There has been a sustained long-term effort by Norwegian police against both MC-related crime and focusing on the security sector. It happened, for example. no line break in relation to MC threads at the government change. That work has been carried on, with strength, so that there is absolute reason to say that here you take this phenomenon seriously. Then we see that there is also a need to introduce new types of measures in relation to this, and there I want to repeat the efforts that are being made, among other things. do in Upper Eiker, which I think is very important, and which we can develop elsewhere. Here we will continue the organised work of the Police Directorate, in particular against MC crime. In the case of those recordings that have now come about a future revision of, inter alia: The law of watchkeeping, I will take these with me. It'll always be useful. When it comes to the question of checking reputation, I think it is good that we have now found a method that makes it possible to check the reputation of a large group of people who are employed in this industry. The previous government chose not to go into the proposal – I think it was from the Progress Party – to hire a number of people to strengthen manual control of this. We still have that perception. We believe that it's not the way to go, but that in this way it's more appropriate to do it technologically, by getting equipment like, among other things. can wash these lists so that we can continuously control the reputation of those involved. Then we have to say that it is a step forward that we have now actually got this up as a pilot project, and it is clear that it is also interesting to see how we are going to spread it across the whole country. I believe that it is resource-saving and that it is an effective tool in this fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e138	I'm not going to spend a long time on my post. I think the Council of State has given good and satisfying answers to the interpellant. I have to admit that I had some problems understanding what the interpellant really wants to focus on in its interpellation, but I think that after reading it sometimes I've gained some understanding. I agree with the Council of State that this is going on in two areas. One relates to the information needs of the Storting, and the other concerns the increased challenges of serious crime. Then I also have to say that there is a presentation of the facts in the interpellation that I cannot recognize, for example. as regards the coverage of information needs and the «focus of the Councils», but it shall be the responsibility of the interpellant itself. We are facing major, serious challenges in terms of organised crime. As I said, state councils were very broad on the challenges both in terms of the safety industry and in relation to the MC repeats, but in the Soria Moria statement, long before this became a TV 2 issue, we wrote that we should have a review of the law on watchkeeping. We did this, of course, because we have always had a strong focus on the safety industry. I assume that this legal work is going like a legal work, and that the bill is then presented to the Stortinget in the usual way. My impression is that the police have taken seriously the challenges we face with regard to the illegality of the security industry. Not least, both the much-discussed report and the work done by the Oslo police district to reveal the structures of the security industry, show that this is the case. In the case of illegal MC threads, an increase in the number of members has been confirmed, and this was mentioned in the budget. This increase is a cause for concern. Therefore, I think it is positive that the police have a strong focus on this, and that they have an overview and knowledge of the environment to the extent that they give it to them. As late as March 2007, POD issued a report on the fight against criminal gangs. This report has been sent to all the police departments. It contains analysis and contains proposals for action. I assume that this is being followed up by the police districts as an important part of the work against organised crime. The main purpose of this report is to combat established threads, to prevent the re-recruitment of established threads, and to prevent the re-establishment of threads. Earlier today, we have had a budget debate in which we underlined the red-green commitment to organised crime as one of our important police efforts. I also need to bring forward another measure, namely the police council, which may also be suitable for setting up local action plans for both the doorbell industry, the safety industry and the MC gangs. In the end, I would like to ask whether the representative has understood the role he has as a magnificant in relation to the issue of travel. ‘The size must take its decisions on the basis of real information on the situation, but in some cases the recent years have been set aside to deal with political rhetoric and the focus of the Council of State has been spread in all directions. [[...]] how will he — i.e. the Council of State — ‘provide the granting authority with sufficient information to provide the basis for adequate budgets?’ I must be allowed to make it clear that representatives can ask all kinds of questions, everything you have at heart, to the Council of State, both in the context of budgetary proceedings, in oral Question Time and through written questions. As the Council of State had in mind, in the first financial year, 2005, we had a separate meeting with this committee with the political leadership of the ministry, where the entire ministry met. At that time, the committee had the opportunity to ask all the budgetary questions you might have. This didn't want the opposition to keep going. It was the opposition who on its own initiative asked us to end it, because it was not necessary for the opposition to carry out such meetings. I am surprised that the representative said that you have not received enough information. In this budget, too, the parties have had the opportunity to ask questions. I record that the right has not asked questions about what is being taken up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e171	I think the interpellation taken up by the representative Dahl is interesting. Of course, with all sorts of respect, we can humiliate ourselves over individual formulations, or we can choose to take on what you really want to achieve. I believe that the general principle that lies in the approach of the representative Dahl is: Is the flow of communication good enough? Then we can discuss who is responsible for it. Is it the case that the opposition is responsible by letter writing? Does the Council of State have it by informing the Storting through individual cases and budgets? Or is it that we have to think about something new? I believe, for my part, that many of the answers are self-evident. But it's probably also that it might be wise for the council to play on layers with a broader foundation than the position alone. As has been the case before today in this room, when the new government joined, they said that they actually wanted to play on the team, even with the opposition where they found it reasonable. Now, of course, it's up to the position to define what makes sense, so I'll leave it. If it's true that you want back coverage in a broader perspective than you have now, it's quite possible. I am sure that the opposition – as well as it can, and as well as it manages – will help to make their recordings, make their points and suggestions. Then, of course, it becomes up to the government what you want to follow up. But I think the point here is that at my discretion it is unnecessary to humiliate over individual details. You can actually lift your eyes and say, "What's this about?" With regard to the guard companies and their follow-up, at least I believe it would make sense if several parties took self-criticism here. When the law was last dealt with, Stortinget said that at least five posts were needed to follow up the guard companies. If you have subsequently received these jobs, you may be a bit ‘bob-bob’. It may be an unparliamentary term, but it's that it's a little hard to find them again. Former State Council claimed they were in the frame. I guess even our present state council has claimed that they actually do. But when we had hearings about this, at least I realized that the person who represented the police, and who was responsible for this, was seeing that those resources were actually there. Then the question is: do we put some unreasonable expectations to those who are going to do the job for us, to those who share in laying the basis for the information that goes through the police system to the Council of State, from the Council of State to the Government and from the Government and here? If it doesn't work well enough, you could end up in a situation where the information that comes here actually doesn't get good enough. We've had a discussion before today about what happened at Oslo S. Information Flow is the key. It's a key to creating security, but it's also a key to showing that you have an overview. In the case of the MC environment, it also seems that there is a large degree of incident control. When we get single-pisods – it's in the media or in a major court case that comes up – that affect the MC environment, it becomes much more focused on. It's probably some of the lot of the justice sector that it's being run, and it's being heavily influenced by what's happening in the media, on good and bad. This is probably a reality. At the same time, it should be a challenge to keep a steady focus on this. The less we hear about them, the worse I actually think it is to some degree. The more they can stay away from government focus, the better their store goes. Our goal must be to close that shop once and for all. I've registered that they've been talking about illegal MC clubs. I don't think we have any illegal MC clubs in Norway. It may be individuals who commit crime, but I haven't realized that we have MC environments that per person. definition is neither prohibited nor illegal. The illegal person is the individual who may be responsible. The challenge for all of us must be that MC crime and watchkeeping companies operating in the grey zone must be closely followed up. We cannot afford to have a security company industry that is unreliable. To that they have too many important tasks. This government has said that much of what has to do with the justice sector should be more governed by the public. Then you meet yourself in the door at my discretion, because you do not put the necessary appropriations on the table. We can talk about the number of trained police officers, but it doesn't help. At the same time, at least I think it's a good idea to relieve the police action by employing more civilians for some tasks. The challenge there is to find a sensible balance point. But that there is a need for the weight industry is raised above any doubt. It's neither natural nor reasonable to use policemen for all the tasks they're actually doing. Our job must be to ensure that the weight industry is clean, in addition to combating all illegal crime, including what members of the MC clubs in Norway stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e194	I listen to the interpellation and debate and I choose to interpret it as follows: Representatives of the Right Party are concerned about a social development – a sentence. Then it is not necessary for other big business representatives to teach anyone that there is no concern about social development. There is concern about the development of society. Then you have to discuss what it is. I want to make a confession. I'm also worried about a social development. I have personally been concerned about everything that has had to do with organized crime, for 12–13–14 years. I have known that there has been a significant job when a job has been done, but I am still worried. It was like this for me, to have this as an entrance, that when we were prepared enough to take the settlement that took place in Stavanger in connection with the NOKAS case, I was worried that there might be a new class on the track – a new recruitment. That's what's the serious rug that I think everyone in the hall should have in common. I fully agree with the Council of State that it is important to combat this, both internationally and nationally. It's taken hold of the sitting government, as it's also done by previous governments. That's good. My concern today is what we do nationally. How do we manage nationally to keep up the pressure we've created? Here I'll sort. I don't want to take the debate on crime in MC environments and gangs, because that's where I perceive the police have had and are engaged. On the other hand, I want to be concerned with a social phenomenon that we've seen throughout the Western world – and in other countries much stronger than in Norway – and that's that we get a security industry and an important industry that grows, partly because it's a social insecurity, partly because there's a lot of money in society, and partly because there's a vacuum around the efforts the police can make. I think it's less of this in Norway than in other countries, but the better then that we might be able to set some limits that others do not have the power to set. For my part, I see that it is vital to set the limits that relate to a security industry that we have been presented in the media, and I think it is very good that the police have intelligence on this. Some years ago, there were some and every concern about those who had participated in the Balkan wars in the 1990s, for example. What would happen when they returned to Norwegian environments? Could it be that we then got individuals back who had a completely different relationship with killing, for example, than what we had been accustomed to in Norwegian ‘common’ criminal environments, to express myself like that. So, that’s why – that you take note of this is very important. As far as the weight companies are concerned, it may well be that what was wise or unwise to do some years ago no longer needs to be. I think there are some relationships that update this. My contact with this is what I meet as a citizen in the city of Oslo. As a citizen of the city of Oslo, I see more and more alarming signs. The scale industry is large, and a large proportion of it acts in fields where the police have never been – janitorial services, receptionism, etc. The weight industry I'm talking about now is the one that is increasingly starting to act in public space. It acts in the public space, where the police have traditionally been and should be. There I have a concern based on events I have been described as a citizen of this city and as a big-time representative. They worry me, and I'm going to persecute, persecute in the way that I tend to persecute something when I've put something in my head. I want it to be introduced to law and order and security in this area, and I'm going to do it my way, for this I've now decided for. Because it's become too much. It's just become too much. The council and the undersigned had an experience on the spot Blue at Akerselva a week and a half ago, where we got just one witness after another from the sellers of the magazine = Oslo, a publication that is honoured by everyone in the Storting. You'll hear that weights usually go around with handcuffs. It is new to me that handcuffs are a permanent emergency equipment in connection with civilian detentions. I have to admit it: it was completely new to me. We were also told that people are being taken into closed rooms at the malls, especially if you belong to a part of the community where you might not be used to having someone come back. This is a kind of social slippage that won't be allowed to continue in any way, and I feel that this is some of the serious backsliding on the edge of the representative Dahl's interpellation. I choose to take it that way that the Council of States has its challenges in meeting this. I'm sure he'll take them. As a representative of the Stortinget, I will help him get something to do in this area. With regard to the representative Dahl, he gets to channel his concerns into the issues and the forms of debate he might have. But maybe this is a reason why we want to see a relationship in Stortinget. We had needed a broader criminal policy debate, where organized crime was a backstop. We have many debates in Stortinget, but I do not remember at the moment that we have had a thorough and comprehensive debate on this at some point. We've had it before, at a time when we had a lot of laws. Now it has been a while since the time of the great Lawmakers. I ask the Council of State to consider whether he can find a suitable occasion for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e217	The representative Dørum perceived Dahl's interplay in his own way. I perceive it this way: the representative Octay Dahl is frustrated that it is not a direct line from the government quarter to the Right representatives in this room. The representative, Dahl, would like to express his frustration, but there's something called choice, and after the election, it's such that unfortunately there are no government councils in the government quarters. But saying that Stortinget does not get the necessary information is totally wrong. The size has been given the information needed to take the decisions to be taken by the Stortinget. Part of the information is this proposition that Stortinget is dealing with today. It's on 184 sides. The government is telling us in detail what challenges it is facing, how they are to be tackled, and how much budgets we need to deal with them. Then I can mention to the representative Dahl what we have already dealt with today. He doesn't have to go very deep into it. We have had a long and detailed debate on this. Today, we are going to adopt a budget where we are increasing the justice area by DKK 1.9 billion in all sectors and DKK 1.5 billion in the Ministry of Justice's budget. We have now strengthened the police and prosecution authorities by 245 million. kr in 2008, and we have – I just want to remind you of the information that has always been here – strengthened the budget on the same chapter over the last three years by NOK 0.5 billion. So I want to repeat: the size is satisfied with the information that the government provides, and that the Storting needs to make the right decisions. I don't have to say anything more than that. We're pleased with the information we've been given to make the right decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e228	I thought I'd link some comments to the part of the interpellation that's about MC crime. Because I also find it a little difficult to recognize myself in the description of a lack of focus on the Council of State. And that the situation is that a "nearly has to thin out information," I don't quite understand. Some of the background that I have a little trouble hanging out with there is that in January this year I asked a written question to the Minister of Justice. It was answered at the beginning of February. There was a full answer, and the background to the question was that Bandidos was once again established in the Dramatic Area. Then, like what some others have expressed here, I became worried. Because we knew well what kind of environments we came from the Drama. When the National Headquarters of Bandidos, located in Oslo, was destroyed, and we were told in the Drama that Bandidos had moved his headquarters to Drammen, we were worried – and not only worried, we were saved. It turned out that the fear unfortunately was not unfounded. We tried as a municipality that time about everything. The police were investigating to see if there was criminal activity in the premises, but the police intelligence unfortunately could not reveal that there was criminal activity in the house. So what we ended up at the time was the Law of Planning and Building and a work to reregulate the entire area into business, expropriate the property to Bandidos and put it under Drammen's Ice. We were almost in the goal, so narrow it. One quarter before midnight on June 4, 1997, the headquarters of Bandidos in Konnerudgata 25 in the Drama was blown to heaven by a car bomb. A random passerby lost his life. Amazingly, no more lives were lost, but the material damage was enormous. Fortunately, the municipality had just in advance had an emergency training exercise in the unimaginable, so we were relatively well protected to be able to handle such a situation there and then. But what we felt we were missing was a little more powerful instruments. At the time, the undersigned, as rapporteur in Drammen, had contact with the then Minister of Justice and the then Prime Minister, and I am absolutely sure the President remembers it very well, for it was the President who was in that role at the time. They both came to the Drammen and saw "little Beirut" – it looked like a war zone. It's almost impossible to imagine it if you didn't stand in the middle of it, in fire, smoke, ruins and destruction. Then we quickly got a temporary device. We were eventually given a permanent legal provision that would prevent that kind of establishment. But then, of course, there's some picks on it. These were provisions that tested the limits on human rights and against the principles of the rule of law. The provisions we could use to refuse residence and establishment were if there was an acute risk of violence. And the people adapt, of course they do. So we were kind of equidistant. What we're experiencing today is that in the Drama District there are four rival MC clubs in a pretty dense area. We know what it is, as I said. And this doesn't just apply in the drama. The Tromsø police have stated that money extortion, threats and drug trafficking have increased in Tromsø in one year a similar establishment there. And then it's just as important, as the Minister of Justice was about to do from the pulpit here, to share knowledge. I believe that the key is neither one-sided on the pulpit here in Stortinget nor on the communication between big business and government. Some of it lies there, but the most important thing lies in the cooperation that takes place locally with the municipalities concerned and with the police and their intelligence. I have personal experience that it is solid, and that the police provide the knowledge you need. Central authorities have a role to play in organising legislation, but the most important thing is to disrupt and disrupt and disrupt the environment, prevent recruitment, check the ID of all those attending events, etc., pursue house-hunting MC environments and try to prevent homeowners from selling to these environments. I would like to have more stringent instruments, but as I said, the rule of law sets some limits. I trust the Minister of Justice will do what is necessary. It also has the Right-Rapporteur in the Upper Eiker. Work must be done primarily locally, and information is not difficult to obtain.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e243	As many people have said before me, it's an important topic for the interpellant, and it's important to get information about the environments that this is about. The representative Chaudhry said that the information that comes from government to big business is good, and he is very pleased with the information that comes. He even said it was completely unenforceable. The opposition depends on the fact that the flow of information within the Great Coalition, i.e. in the government parties, is unenforceable, so that we also get the information we need, so that we can take the decisions we think are right, and propose what we think is right. But now it is so that if the information inside the government is not unprovoked, something the opposition has heard rumors that it is not, this representative becomes a little concerned. I also want to hear from the representative Chaudhry if he believes that the flow of information within the government parties is as good as what he gives the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e251	I was asked a question about my understanding of role distribution, and then I got a little in the chair, because then I thought that now there is something very skilled here. So it was some kind of meeting that the opposition should have been very opposed to participating in. That's what I've been talking about with my fractional colleague, Aspaker, and we can't say that we remember, but we may not have gotten it all together. But I really have to say that I thought there was going to be something more qualified when you started talking about the strange understanding of the role distribution. Because I have to say that from what seems to be the underlying view of both Bjørnflaten and Chaudhry, one can wonder whether, after two years, the hen-valved variant of parliamentaryism in this house has been taken into account. However, I choose to interpret the Council of State to the point that he takes with him the recordings he has received. I think that's positive. I also hope that part of the concrete input that some of us have made is taken into account in the assessment that has been carried out for a while, that perhaps some of the proposals can be promoted, and that, at least, if we don't get the credit for it, they will be adopted. Finally, I must also say to the representative Chaudhry that it did not take a long time for him to take the same arrogant attitude towards Stortinget as the opposition party SV to complain about when they themselves were in opposition. It took two years. It's impressive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e260	I have to say that it's an interesting aspect of this discussion that I think we can all take with us, and that's how we raise the criminal policy debates. Because you take the MC crime, we know that there's been a long time in the media around it, but that doesn't mean the police are on the lat side. And it is, as the representative of Christoffersen was also involved, so that those who are battling such challenges in their community have reported both under the previous government and under the current government that they feel that cooperation with the police is good, but there is a need for more local tools. We believe that we contribute to this by setting up police councils, but I have said that I am among others. Willing to listen more about the experiences of Upper Eiker and other municipalities, because we see that there is a need to take further action. Sick if it doesn't shape the agenda and the media, it doesn't mean that the police have done their work on this – rather on the contrary, I was saying. It's like once the media grab it, the interpellations come. This interpellation is written just after TV 2 created its affairs, so it's a very good example that we sometimes, each one of us, need to try to raise our eyes and see: do we catch up on the criminal-police currents that really apply, or are we just where the media is? I believe, among other things, that the fight against violence in close relations is a very good example of an area where we have very little pressure out. It's only now in recent weeks that it's been raised as a real theme. But there is no reflection on the fact that that theme is not important to address, rather on the contrary. I must say that I believe the representative Dørum is at the heart of something. We should maybe take a round on how we raise this kind of debate here in the house, and look at the possibility of a general discussion of how the crime challenges actually are to be understood. Then we will have an opportunity not only for the ministry and the government to present how we perceive the crime situation, but we will also have a discussion about: what do we do? So I think that this debate has actually come about something that we can all think about a little bit in relation to how we can just raise more general debates, in order to bring forward a more knowledge-driven criminal policy instead of just an event-driven one.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e269	The debate on substance is closed. 12 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e275	The size is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e283	During the debate, Mr Solholm put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The 2008 budget is authorised under: Chapter.PostDestinationCronesCronesExpenditure1H.M. The King and H.M. The QueenApanie 8 256 00050The King. Hoff 122 299 00051 Specific projects of the Royal Court of Justice 17 875 0002H.K.H. The Crown Prince and H.K.H. The Crown Princess1Apanage 6 166 00050H.K.H. The Crown Prince and H.K.H. The Crown Princess's staff, etc. 14 121 00041Size1Operating expenditure, which may be used under heading 70655 600 00032Buy of apartments, may be transferred75 000 00045Larger acquisitions of equipment and maintenance, may be transferred59 500 00070Subsidy to the groups 124 500 00072Aid to the Library of the Norwegian Nobel Institute 1 000 00043Ombudsman of the administration1Operating expenditure 37 900 00044Storage control committee of the intelligence, surveillance and security services1Operating expenditure 7 800 00051Rich audit1Operating expenditure 361 800 000Total expenditure 1 491 817 000Investments3041Size1Sales revenue 5 700 0003Rent revenue 2 600 0003051Rix audit1Revision inland 1 300 0002Refusion abroad 2 000 000Total revenue 11 600 000» Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e1116	Ten proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-6, by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 7, by Jan Arild Ellingsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of In the course of the debate, the proposals are no. 9 and 10 are converted into transmission proposals, and the wording is amended accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e1164	There is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to consider returning to the 2008 Revised National Budget with a proposal that the limitation of the compensation for violence to 20 G applies per year. person.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e1179	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 to 6, from the Party of Progress and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e2938	The party of progress, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e2956	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Morten Ørsal Johansen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The ruling asks the Government to assess the establishment of a system of minimum penalties for the imposition of criminal sanctions in the event of serious offences for the third time or more in the context of the submission of a new special part to the Criminal Code.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e2980	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a system whereby, at the time of the first conviction of a criminal offence, the penalty shall be deemed to be discretionary within the entire penalty framework on the basis of the gravity, the degree, the nature of the offence and the consequences for the victim. When a conviction has again committed a deliberate criminal offence of the same nature or where the penalty framework has been in prison for more than 6 years, for which he has previously been convicted here in the kingdom or abroad, the penalty may not be lower than half of the ordinary criminal penalties imposed by the offender unless the offender himself decides otherwise. Where the person is convicted of intentional acts of the same nature or where the penalty framework has been in prison for more than 6 years, more than once before, the prison sentence may be increased by up to twice and shall not be lower than the ordinary maximum penalty imposed by the offender. The prison sentence may not be increased beyond 21 years.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e2995	It will then be replaced by an alternative between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, which reads: ‘Document No. 8:105 [[2006-2007]] The Christian People's Party has announced that they want to support the proposal of the Progress Party, and the President assumes that the same applies to the Right? - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e3017	In Case No: 11 and 12 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03-2.ana.ud27e3081	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
