ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e57	The representatives of Laila Davøy and Hallgeir H. Langeland, who have been authorized, have taken their seat again.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e69	The President will propose that a seat president be elected for the Stortinget meeting today – and see it as agreed. The President will propose Marit Nybakk. – Other proposals are not in line, and Marit Nybakk is elected by consensus as the seat president of the current meeting. The representative, Ms Søreide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e76	On behalf of Gunnar Gundersen and myself, I am delighted to make proposals for the publication of the results of national school-level tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e81	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e95	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e106	Unemployment in Norway is now record low and continues to decline. There are 12,000 fewer unemployed now than it was a year ago. That's very good. What's also good is that this applies to the whole country, that the decline is actually the greatest among those who have been unemployed for a long time, and it goes down most among those with higher education. But even among those with disabilities who have not benefited for many years from the decline in unemployment, there is now a marked decline of 7 pst. That is good, but not enough, because the unemployment rate is still high among those with disabilities. That is why it is so vital that the red-green government now has an equally strong commitment to measures that can help more people get to work than last year, as unemployment was slightly higher. It's also in the area one looks at the very greatest difference between the red-green government and the previous government we had, because the policy of the previous government was based on a much lower number of measures. We see very clearly in the alternative budgets that the opposition has presented today, that this is where the big cuts come from. So if the bourgeois, with the Right and the Advance Party at the head, had run now, there were many fewer who had been helped to get to work. The industry had missed out on necessary and good labour, and there would have been a great loss not least for those who are disabled and who need better help. One of the main tools to help people get back to work is the NAV reform. Much remains to be done to complete and operate the NAV reform. One is that in a reorganization process, one strives to keep the level of service well up. The second is that it still remains to make part of the regulatory changes that Stortinget has given a positive signal to the Government to get in place, and that must be there in order for a person to be able to adapt the measures as well as we want, and as we know is necessary. It is because it is becoming extra bad when the opposition also cuts in NAV, which is the helper to assist people who are unemployed. They will not only assist people who are unemployed, but also people who need a social security or a benefit to live on. It means – that is my claim – that when one in a reorganization process, such as NAV, is currently involved, such cuts in the floor are proposed, for example. In fact, the party of progress has done so, it is also a risk to those who must have their social security in time. It will not be possible for NAV to function – neither for those who are unemployed, nor for those who need social security – with the cuts promoted by the Advance Party. In order for the measures to work in such a way as to provide assistance to those who have difficulties qualifying for the labour market, it is important that they have a duration and quality that a balance be drawn between the potential of people and the requirements of the labour market. For this reason, I am very pleased that the entire Committee underlines this, and that it stresses the importance for NAV, when they have as good access to the means of action as they do now, to ensure that priority is given to those who benefit from the quality and duration of the measures. It is also important for those who are now to benefit from the new qualification aid and receive a qualification programme that actions for this group are also prioritised within the NAV portfolio. This is a prerequisite for the functioning of the qualification programme. I and SV believe that the qualification programme is one of the most important new measures the government has started. So you have to get a benefit that is a little higher than social assistance and, not least, a safe income over several years — at least an opportunity — which allows you to concentrate on the difficult job of turning a life that has gone into a ball. It can take time, and you need this security to do this in a better way than today. It is important for me to say that studies carried out by the Oslo College, linked to those who have been on the measures under the old poverty plan, clearly show that there are not only labour market measures that need to be taken. These are people with some major health problems that need help both for their seas and for rehabilitation. Very many of them also have problems in the housing market. This means that efforts in these areas, too, must be in place for us to succeed – not for the success of the qualification programme itself, but for us to give people who need a job a realistic chance. The labour force today is screaming for labour. It does. However, there are still very high demands both for skills and for one in very many professions to work late and early. It requires that the help given to people who have been out of work for a long time, and perhaps encountered more difficulties in life than most of us have, must be complex, comprehensive and of such a duration that what they can offer is actually sought on the labour market. It's demanding, and that's why there's a piece left before we get there. As I mentioned at the outset, as far as legislative changes are concerned within the NAV system, there is a job to do for us there before we are in a position to do so. What we are now proposing, as the qualification programme, such as the long-term unemployment guarantee and a nationwide payroll scheme, are very important measures that SV believes will contribute well, so that those who can and will can get into work. It's incredibly important. Otherwise, the annual budget for the fight against poverty is now DKK 3.6 billion. It's NOK 1.6 billion more than when this government took over. That's a lot of money. Plus, I guess it was $55 million. kr, which was also granted to this area when the Financial Committee considered its position – for measures in the field of care and housing. These are very important measures. But there's still a lot of mess in this area, and it might seem even more difficult for those who are in a difficult situation, when the rest of the country goes down then it sucks. I heard some numbers on the radio yesterday. The Christmas trade this year is estimated that we will trade for approximately 13 billion kroner. Then it probably indicates that it might have been possible for us to share a little more on that money, so that those who do not get any special share in the Christmas trade could take part in the joy. In addition to the points I have now gone through, I would like to mention the important steps taken by the Government in the field of social dumping. It is important both for Norwegian working life not to take health away from people, and for Norwegian working life also to be able to accept people coming from other countries, in a way that prevents the legislation we have in Norway from crumbling away. We know that one of the pillars of society's functioning is that you can have a job to live off and live with in Norway. It is therefore important that the Government now submits a legislative proposal to ensure that such rules also apply in the municipal sector, in the public sector, i.e. that the rules against social dumping and the requirements on Norwegian pay and working conditions also apply in the municipal sector. It's important that the whole of our working life works according to the rules we have. We know that has meant a lot that the differences in Norway have not increased, and that people do not lose their health when they are at work. It is important that we do not then develop a working life in Norway that allows us to exploit people from other countries in this way. It will also dissuade Norwegian companies from complying with Norwegian laws and regulations. They don't want a chance in such a competition if we're going to take this lightly. As a result, the budgets of the Labour Inspectorate and the Petroleum Authority have also increased. Finally, I just want to say that the Stortinget is looking forward to the Government presenting a bill on anti-discrimination and accessibility laws for disabled people. It is one of the important issues in order to increase the possibility of everyone being able to participate on equal terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e136	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e139	This summer, the SSB presented its living conditions survey. In that living conditions survey, it became clear that the group that may be considered to be the poorest is single-dwelling minimum pensioners. According to that survey, they have an average of 17 000 kroner less to live for than, among other things, social assistance recipients. If we look at the situation today, we have 65,000 minimum pensioners who are not in the tax position. With the State budget submitted, they with a consumption of 20000 kWh in electricity will receive 400 kroner at increased power costs. They will receive 80 kroner in increased costs of health and 85 kroner in increased TV licenses, among others. In terms of health costs, we know that 64 pst. of the single residents have chronic diseases. When will the SV and the Government take concrete action for the country's minimum pensioners living below the poverty line? What measures will the Government promote?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e144	The representative points to a group in society where we know that there are people who are struggling financially. These are people who can also struggle with poor health. It's people who are totally dependent on that, for example. The local economy is good, so that we can have an elderly care that works and that we can have a high level of well-being. The government is aware that there may be living conditions problems in this group, so in the context of social security, an agreement with pensioners' organisations was made with us to review the living conditions of the minimum pensioners, and especially the single ones. In addition, the Government has said that it will go through the entire housing support system, because it is essential for those who live on such low incomes and who have social security and are unable to obtain income from them. We believe that this is a very important system, which can contribute very well to better living conditions for lonely people living on minimum pensions alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e149	Despite a very happy development in the number of people receiving daily pay, there are very many who are not enjoying the good times in their working life. In the same period as unemployment is more than halved, the number of disabled persons is 10 pst. higher. This is alarming, especially because there have never been better opportunities to include more disabled people in the labour market. In this respect, it is particularly alarming to receive reports that action places for people with disabilities are being laid down in several districts. At the same time, NAV can tell that they have difficulties in spending budgetary resources on ordinary jobseekers. In spite of this, the majority, by the red-green, continue to grant both disabled and ordinary jobseekers as before. Isn't it soon that the government and the red-green majority are coming on the track to give the disabled people a real boost, as the Right does in their alternative state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e154	It is strange to get this line from a representative and a party that has cut in the action sites. The representative of Engeset is very aware that the changes that are now being made to the budget in this area now have one portfolio of measures. The Committee has unanimously expressed its wish to concentrate on measures for those who need the most help. This means that the message that Stortinget now gives both to the Council of State and to NAV is that precisely the groups that Engeset points out should receive better help. With the Engeset and Right's proposals for the State budget, there would be fewer areas of action for those groups that Engeset now stands and says will not be helped with this budget. So this is what I think Martin Engeset and Right are going to go home and think about next year, that they are not going to cut in the action areas when they are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e159	The representative, Andersen, is very concerned that there are many people who have a bad time in society. In many ways Left honors SV in some contexts in relation to that exposure. One has even tried to live on an amount of equivalent social benefit. We see that the trend in social welfare has not been satisfactory in many ways. Many still have poor conditions to live under. I have noticed that the Government of Soria Moria states that it will eliminate poverty. In the introduction to the chapters of the proposition, it says that they have this as their measure. Suddenly, this has become just a vision. What has happened over the two years the government has been sitting? To establish – is now just a vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e166	The goal of eradicating poverty is firm. That's what we work for every single day. One of the areas where the government has now said it should go into is social assistance. So this is what social assistance is now, is the indicative rate, and it's a little bit unclear from what kind of calculation base it's given. It is also deficient in terms of access to justice and State supervision. All of these important elements have now been said by the Government to look at it. In addition to that, this government has a solid commitment that can and will help those who can and will return to work. There is a policy that SV fully supports. So I have mentioned in my post some areas where there is a need for a better bet than today to achieve the goal of eradicating poverty. But this government has made a much stronger effort in that area than previous governments, so we're going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e173	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e177	The fight against poverty was one of the main themes of the financial debate, and it is also in the debate on the appropriations in our area. The majority started this period by increasing their efforts to tackle poverty by over half a billion dollars. This year we increased by 700 million. kr, to a level of SEK 1.2 billion more than in the previous period. Next year, the government is proposing further increases up to a level of DKK 1.6 billion above the last poverty proposal of the government. In Stortinget, another 55 million. kr added by the majority, including 30 million. D to improvements in housing support and housing for people coming from prison. The action plans against poverty and inclusion are being continued and strengthened. $1.6 billion is a lot of money. There is so much money that we can almost not defend using them, without seeing lasting results of the effort. If the government and the majority of the population are going to succeed, we don't know yet, we're going to admit that, even though the opposition is doing the best it can pretend to know something that no one else knows. Words such as ‘genuine bluff’, ‘reduced dimensions’, ‘defects the disabled’ and ‘half bet’ are only some of those that have been expressed from that edge. These are bold statements – given the lack of results in the previous period. Under the tax relief scheme of the previous government, there were several poor people. We know that. Then the tax relief was not meant for them. If we succeed now, we do not know so far, because it takes time from money to be allocated and action is taken until the impact of the measures turns out. But we have some indications. What we know is that 150 000 more people are at work, that there is a further decline in unemployment – to well under 2 pst. – that the proportion of older workers shows an increasing trend, that the unemployment rate is falling, that there are fewer people with disabilities and that the consumption of social assistance is falling. It must also mean a reduction in poverty. This must mean that some measures have started to work, for example: the fact that where the previous majority cut in action, we added – last year and in the previous year – and maintain a high level of action for the second year in a row, despite falling unemployment. From next year, we will also make the change that we are removing the distinction between ordinary and special measures for people with disabilities, in order to provide greater flexibility in the use of resources — one of a number of changes that will make our entire welfare system more user-friendly. There is also an illustration that poverty reduction is not only about spending a lot of money, but also about spending money properly. But we should not underestimate that there is still something that is not quite as good, for example. that employment among people with disabilities does not show signs of an increase, that even if unemployment among immigrants decreases, the difference from the rest of the population does not decrease, that there is still age discrimination in working life, and that there are still too many who live on social assistance over longer periods of time. However, there are now measures on ongoing bonds – wage subsidies, organisation guarantees, action guarantees, simplifications in the social welfare system and measures for new groups, among others. through the qualification programme, which may include in full 30000 persons who would otherwise be entitled. Anti-discrimination work has been promised with a new responsible minister. The legal work against discrimination is being carried out too fully. It feels a bit strange to be criticised for the lack of impact of administrative changes, measures and laws that are either in preparation, just put in place or ready to be implemented from 1 January. We're not done with the job. For the time being, it's been a little over two years since we took over. For those who may be interested, it is fully possible to read the ‘Soria Moria Declaration — two years later’ — which, as it is called, has also examined the status of measures in the field of poverty policy. Child poverty is also part of the picture. It is perhaps the most unfair form of poverty that exists. Because the kids are in a hurry. This is about poverty that is inherited – about the children of lone parents, about children in large families and about children with a non-Western background. It is about combating poverty in parents, but also about breaking social heritage — through prevention and rapid intervention in many sectors. Poverty is a multi-faceted challenge. The reasons are many. The problems are complex. It is also not just about measures in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and the Ministry of Children’s and Gender Equality budgets — it is about looking at cross-sectoral contexts. Light-wine solutions are not available. I think the poverty debate is all too often reduced to a debate on money – who gives the most to what. Very rarely, the results of money use are systematically verified. Here the sitting government is now taking hold. New measurement criteria and guidance indicators are under development in order to be able to see results more quickly and adjust the price, if necessary. We don't have the fasit -- we admit it -- but it doesn't have the opposition either. It proved it when it had a majority of its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e207	Tuesday it was a big piece in the Evening Post about the condition of the disabled. Among other things, it said:\t\t You can «We need jobs, no more beautiful promises and honorary words. What we see is an increasing distance between political ambitions and realities, says Secretary General Lars Ødegård of the Swedish Handicap Federation.’ Under ‘On site rest’ it says: ‘Today, a new report is presented to show that the gap between disabled and ‘common’ citizens is alarmingly wide, with an ever lower level of professional participation. 12 000 fewer people with disabilities are at work now compared to 2001. And it goes on to say: ‘The report shows that almost all public efforts in recent years – with new rules, new money and massive ambitions – have had minimal impact.’ The Progress Party, together with the Right, has presented a proposal whereby we draw the FFO, the Norwegian Handicap Association and other organisations into an information campaign for employers on qualification. Why would the Workers' Party not be involved in such a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e227	Kenneth Svendsen puts his finger on a problem that I referred to in my post, that unfortunately it is not possible to trace any increased employment among disabled people. The majority have undertaken — and are in the process of implementing — some measures, just to remedy it. Firstly, the answer is not to cut labour market measures, but to increase the appropriations for the type of action proposed by the majority. One possible measure is the wage subsidy, which makes disabled people attractive to employers. Another is the organisation guarantee, which needs to be better informed about – and which measures have been put in place to provide better information. Of course, the majority shall also cooperate with the organisations. We have just mentioned what emerged from the hearings in Stortinget, that together with the organisations, we need to get information to employers about the qualifications of disabled people, to get more people to work. [[President clubs]] Of course, we should also cooperate with them. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e236	The President will ask for the speaking time to be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e239	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e244	In today's situation, with a critical shortage of labour in a number of sectors, both public and private, we have a waiting wage system in the state. It is, in my opinion, an anachronism, which should have been abolished a long time ago. Today, more than 2000 former government employees receive this waiting wage. The arrangement is that you can get 66 pst. of wages and salaries up to a maximum of 12 years, if one has become manifest in a State establishment. No one in the private or municipal sectors has such a scheme; it is a state special scheme that costs 400 million. kr per year. From NAV we have been informed that it has proved very difficult to get them into work, despite the fact that there are many thousands of job vacancies. In a look-up in the VG a few days ago, the representative Christoffersen stated that ‘it is perfectly OK that government employees have special arrangements, since many of them have been negotiated’. Does the representative Lise Christoffersen really think that this is a sensible arrangement, when we know that the repeated use has been made by government employers for the brutal exclusion of older workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e249	I'm on what I said to VG. I don't see anything wrong in the fact that the state as an employer has a liberal employer policy towards employees who are becoming pervasive in state enterprises. I myself have been a government employee and a trustee, and I know that in many wage settlements government employees have, among other things. remunerated on a pay basis in order to obtain a corresponding improvement in social benefits from the employer. It is a normal situation in the labour market that a person enters into such agreements also in the context of wage-fixing. Having said that, I would say that the majority has made it clear that we do not want the waiting pay system to be a sleeping cushion for the auxiliaries. It must not be the case that a parker on waiting pay people who do not need action because they are already well cared for. We have stressed through our remarks that it should be equally effective towards government employees for waiting wages in order to transfer them to other gainful activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e256	I believe the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party agree that we must always have a living ambition to remove poverty in the country, despite the fact that it is a demanding task, and despite the fact that we may realistically have to expect that it will take longer than expected – 2008, 2009 or 2013 for that matter. On that basis, the Christian People's Party has challenged the Government to focus more on targeted poverty measures next year. We're not saying that we don't recognize the job that's done, but we want to do more. There has been a lot of money coming in, not least in the last two years, which should make it possible to bet more. My question to the representative Lise Christoffersen is: does she believe that the targeted effort in next year's budget is so good that the poverty objective of the Soria Moria Declaration – that is, in 2009 – is within reach?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e263	As I said in my post, it would take a bit of time for action to be taken until the results show up. It is difficult to predict the future, but of course we have ambitions, and we have prioritised within the budget framework in the way we think is best. When the Christian People's Party says they're willing to bet more on poverty reduction, it's only half a truth. What we at least do not agree with is when the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) in order to cover the proposals for increased action in some areas is aged by cutting labour market measures, cutting AFPs, cutting fishing industry wages, cutting perms, pay guarantee schemes, health and rehabilitation services for sick persons, as well as tax incentives for domestic aviation personnel. It's a kind of priorities that we don't agree with the Christian People's Party. That is why we are also on the proposals we have made in our own poverty package.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e270	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e274	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government states that poverty should be eliminated. However, the effort in this area has been very poor. This is also evident in the draft 2008 state budget. Most of the organisations working on poverty reduction and problems around it, including: The Welfare Alliance and the Poor House have expressed disappointment at the policy pursued and have not led to any significant improvement for the groups affected. In my opinion, the government has not used the tools that could solve the problems of many poor people in Norway. Many of the problems that have led weak groups into poverty in Norway could have been solved by simple means. There are several important measures that can be taken to combat poverty. Some important individual factors to reduce the number of poor people are a reduction in the high level of taxation. It must be profitable to use their working capacity, whether limited or fully present. The Party therefore considers that it is necessary to require those with a residual working capacity to exploit it. Assistance and support measures must also be provided to help and facilitate a transition from a passive life as a social security beneficiary to a more active life situation. It is therefore important for NAV to have the means to provide effective assistance, guidance and measures in a transitional phase. Studies carried out among disabled people who are dependent on social security benefits show that as many as 40 000–50000 want an opportunity to participate in the labour market and establish social contacts. Although this is a high number, I think there are a lot more people who want to get out of work, but because many of those who could imagine a job have met a lot of resistance, they have given up. That's a shame, because both they and society would benefit from their workforce. Many other countries, both in Europe and the United States, have a strong focus on the opportunities for disabled people to be active citizens of society. The Committee's visit showed us that the Americans had come much further than us in terms of universal solutions. In Norway, the possibilities of qualification and activation of this group have been poorly exploited. The Party considers that wage subsidies, job organisation, assistants, transport facilities and other adaptations must be put into service. It is also important that those who do not have the opportunity to return to work and who depend on social security benefits for living are granted rights to benefits from which it is possible to live closely in Norway. The above-mentioned study by the Statistical Central Bureau referred to in the article on page 6 of the Evening Post on 4 December also shows that there is a high potential to qualify employers through information and knowledge. Therefore, the Progress Party promotes proposals for such an information campaign. I think it's of the utmost importance that such an information and knowledge campaign be run by those who know where the shoe prints, and those who know best are the FFO, the Disability Association and the other special organizations. If more people get work and the social charges are reduced, less will be poor and more will get out of poverty. If the State reduces the burden imposed by the State itself by taxes and taxes on those who have the least and who reinforce the problems of vulnerable individuals and families, a lot would be achieved. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that as a first step, the State should start to lower the social charges. The Progress Party was at an early stage with the idea of creating a new welfare reform, which was to become the new labour and welfare reform adopted by the Stortinget in spring 2005. The system, which is now in phase-in, will increase the opportunities for the participation of the unemployed in the labour market. In the opinion of the Progress Party, if it operates properly, the NAV reform will be one of the most important contributions to preventing poverty and social distress. It is important that the reform takes on board the whole line, including the responsibility for economic social assistance, which is currently financed by the municipalities. If economic social assistance becomes a state responsibility, the issue of gambling between different levels will be avoided and the possibility of seeing users together will be increased, in an overall situation. Therefore, the Progress Party considers that all long-term users of economic social assistance should have the right to follow-up from NAV and a qualification programme based on carefully monitored individual plans. The user shall be obliged to follow and implement such arrangements in order to return to a working life as soon as possible. For those who cannot be returned to work, it is important that NAV makes a rapid decision on permanent benefits within the social security system. Many complain that we lack labour and call for greater labour immigration. Firstly, it is good that unemployment is low. This means that many are self-sufficient and not at the expense of taxpayers. But in order to get more workers, we should go inside ourselves and see if we haven't made arrangements that scare away people who should be part of the workforce. I've been dealing with those who have some form of disability, but there are a total of 670,000 people with old age who have lost the AFP scheme. There are 620 000 people who are sick, unemployed, disabled, undergoing rehabilitation or rehabilitating. I don't mean, of course, that all old-age pensioners are going to work, but by removing the curtailment for pensioners aged 68 and 69, a lot more people would choose to work. By requiring failure to make regular assessments, more people will come to work. There are many possibilities that will free labour in Norway, and we need to look with open eyes at these solutions first. High sick leave affects businesses, individuals and society as a whole. High sick leave may have many reasons, including: there may be signs of mismanagement or unacceptable pressure in the workplace. If sick leave is high over a long period of time, it would endanger jobs. I am therefore concerned that the IA agreement entered into has not provided the expected results in the form of a severe decrease in sick leave, for which both the State and the social partners have a very high responsibility through the inclusive employment agreement. Fortunately, many pensioners have done well financially, but it is mainly those who, through a long career, have earned supplementary pensions and who tend to have paid apartments or single homes. But unfortunately, there are too many pensioners, and especially the minimum pensioners, who are struggling financially. Most of those with a minimum pension today are the many domestic women who have been responsible for family, children and homes. The progress party wants to give these and the other minimum pensioners a boost, so that their everyday lives do not have to be a struggle to pay bills. The pension for those with a minimum pension shall be at a level that gives them the financial opportunity to experience what many others take for granted. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes that the minimum pension be increased to 2 G, or approx. 133,000 kroner, which will bring the minimum pensioners and those who have a disability benefit without an additional pension across the EU poverty line. The Progress Party records that the basic amount, and hence the retirement benefits, of most social security settlements since 1967 has been under-regulated. In our opinion, the basic amount should be regulated in line with the wage trend for economically active workers, and we have proposed that large parts of the lag should be achieved, so that pensioners do not lag behind in purchasing power developments. It is positive that married and cohabiting pensioners are now closer to equality with single pensioners, following the implementation of the 2003 budget budget by the Progress Party for greater equality through the 2002 budget agreement. Unfortunately, you have not come any longer after this conciliation. Those who have earned a pension right through a long life shall not be entitled to a reduced basic pension but shall receive their accrued and legal pension regardless of their civil status. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes the establishment of a phasing-out plan for married or cohabiting pensioners. The aim of the Progress Party is to ensure that those who have been diagnosed have a rapid return to work. Purchases of healthcare are, in the opinion of the Progress Party, an effective way to do this. Therefore, we will increase the appropriations for the purchase of healthcare and return responsibility for the NAV scheme. In our view, it is important that NAV makes the order, and as there is no capacity available. The transfer of funds to health establishments could result in the use of funds only within their own budgets and it would be difficult to be sure that they are used for their purposes. This purchase should initially be unnecessary. With a health service like the Advance Party wants it, the queues would be gone, as they are in many of the countries we like to compare with. Today's long waiting time for treatment is expensive and completely unnecessary. The long waiting period leads to major problems for workers in the treatment queue, leading to many problems for businesses, both in terms of poorer productivity and in terms of extended and cost-intensive health care periods. All relatives, regardless of their financial capacity, must be able to carry out a sober but dignified funeral for their loved ones. The amount of the excavation aid is far below the actual cost of a funeral and therefore the aid tested for burial should be increased and arranged in such a way that an additional deduction is introduced. I am referring here to the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting alone or with others, with the exception of the proposals No. 9, 11, 15 and 16, which are contrary to the budgetary decision taken in the context of the financial debate. We will subsidize proposal No. 19 from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e308	The representative Kenneth Svendsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e313	In the budget configuration, the Progress Party claims that they have great faith that more people are going to work, and that it can therefore be expected that the payment of daily allowances can be greatly reduced as a result. In the same setting, they state that this will be done because of the great commitment to the NAV reform and that the qualification programme will qualify more people for work. Then I have a question for the representative Svendsen. If the Progress Party has so much faith in the NAV reform and in the qualification programme, why is it cutting the Progress Party in its alternative state budget 125 million? What about the reform itself? Why are they making $431 million? kr to the State of Labour and Welfare, which is to implement it? Why are they included in labour market measures? And why won't they give a crown to the qualifying benefit? Isn't it a little self-contradictive to take out the benefits of the tools you yourself are cutting heavily into?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e320	I'm glad of that question. Last year we also cut heavily in the daily allowance. In the revised 2007 national budget, the Government had to adjust to the level already observed by the Progress Party in December. When we call for NAV to improve efficiency, we expect the reorganisation that has taken place through NAV and the welfare reform to take place for two reasons: firstly, to create more effective treatment, and secondly, to increase the number of people working. In the case of labour market measures, it is correct that we cut into ordinary labour market measures. That's because we expect more people to come to work. In the case of special labour market measures, which relate to the weakest in society, we are increasing by 200 million. to give them a better chance of returning to work. It doesn't do the Workers' Party, and I think that's a pity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e327	To date, the Progress Party has called for an information campaign on disabled people. I think there is a need for an information campaign for people on what the Advance Party budget is all about. Not only are they going to do it so that people who have had a disability should no longer be able to be safe on their income, but should be able to be obliged to work, but the agency that is to help people get to work is also going to experience great cuts, as the representative Eva Kristin Hansen said. In addition, the Advance Party will remove more than 500 million. kr, which the social service of municipalities has to fill. Then one might wonder what kind of help it is going to be to the poor of this, when, among other things, the Advance Party. remove the aid for training for lone dependants. We can see from the statistics that what makes the lone carers actually get a job, and that fewer than before are going on social assistance, is just that this group has been given help for education and through it can get a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e332	It should be the concern of the representative Andersen that Norway, with all the special arrangements we have, with employment law, sick leave, holidays, etc., has relatively twice as many disabled people as in the rest of the OECD countries and the rest of Europe. It should be the case that the 300 000 unemployed today should receive a regular assessment, because the labour market is changing, new occupations are being created and new tools are being provided. In the past, it was the industrial worker who got tired and had to leave the workplace early, today it is the assistant nurses and nurses who have come into that situation. It means that society is changing all the time. Therefore, we need to have a regular assessment of those who are unsolicited, to see if there are anyone who can go back to working full-time, part-time or increase their work effort. We have to bring down the number of bad guys for their own good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e337	I should like to quote from the general remarks of the Advance Party, which include: says: ‘Some important single factors to reduce the number of poor are, in the view of these members, a reduction in the high level of taxation. Making use of their working capacity must be profitable [[...]] Then they also have some other tools, such as: to require that the insured person be brought to work. My question is: Does the Progress Party really mean – I am aware that the Progress Party is a party to reduce taxes and taxes – that it is the medicine of disabled people who do not have room for work and that the representative Svendsen spoke about earlier in his post, for example. the professionally injured worker who is registered for long-term illness and needs rehabilitation and assistance to be re-trained? Is there the level of taxation that is the curve for those persons to return to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e349	I'm so lucky that I'm a member of a party that can have at least two thoughts in my head at the same time. When it comes to helping disabled people out into work, I have previously referred to the campaign we want to launch, because the organisations themselves say that even with increased use of money, even with increased bets, there are no more disabled people at work. Most people I know, including those who are poor, eat food. When we have significant fees on food, these are increased like this. The working party and the centre party were on when they entered the government offices, which leads to an extra burden. It is clear that charges are most severe for those who have the least. It doesn't matter as much whether I get a small fee increase on food or other necessary things, or that smoking gets it, but it's the ones that's at the bottom of the ranking ladder, the ones that have the least, the ones that are minimum pensioners and under it, this hits the hardest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e356	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e359	Norway experiences historically good times. A very sensible policy in the last enlargement period has produced good results, and has laid the groundwork for the world's luckiest government – a red-green government that came to the table and today has 130 billion more at its disposal than two years ago. This will give the government of the day a room for action that no government has ever had before. Such a starting point should have been used to really prioritize the most important tasks first. The right is a society with opportunities for everyone. Most people in Norway are doing well. We live longer than before, we have more vacation and leisure time, and we have welfare arrangements that provide security when something unforeseen happens. The best welfare for most of us is the freedom it gives to be self-sufficient in your own work. Possibilities for everyone must not mean that the state has ambitions to be everything for everyone, but that we should create a society where everyone should have freedom, while society should have a good safety net for those who need it the most, to help give people a new chance. This is the Right Ideological Approach to Welfare Policy. Despite record tax revenues, the Government does not have the power to prioritise the major tasks. In our field, this is most evident in two areas: the need for more labour and the fight against poverty. The challenge today is not unemployment but a screaming shortage of labour. The government itself says that in the near future there will be a need for tens of thousands of new workers in the care of the elderly. Where are these to be retrieved? When business already experiences shortages of labour, competition for labour will become even stronger, but the government says little about how to get more people to work. There are three main interventions that need to be taken to increase labour supply. One is labour immigration. I look forward to the announced big message on this, but the work is too slow. The critical situation is now here. We have had a shortage of labour for several years, and the problem is increasing. Why does the majority maintain the pointless transitional rules with the new EU countries? What happens to the Services Directive? What is done to attract labour from non-EU countries, preferably highly educated labour? On the right, several proposals have been made on how to increase labour migration, and we repeat them in the budgetary position. Although the majority is tied to their hands and feet in the budget, I really hope that the Council of State will take our proposals with it in its further work on the big message. Secondly, labour supply needs to be increased by modernising and streamlining the public sector. This development has stopped completely with the red-green government. Changes and renewal can release a lot of skilled labour for more important purposes, move from bureaucracy to service production, if only the Government shows the ability and willingness to do something about it. So it has not, but I am glad that there is a broad consensus on this on the civil side. And third, we have to make sure that many of those who currently live on cash transfers from the public get a chance to work. There are about 700,000 people in pre-employment who are not taking part in the labour market. Many of these have a big, burning desire to get back to work. The number of unsatisfied persons is strongly increasing. This development represents an untapped mine under the welfare community. Because it is the value of our own work that creates well-being and development and that is to finance the welfare society. That's why it's serious. that we have twice as much sick leave as in the EU that we are at the top of the world in terms of the proportion of the population at disadvantage that it seems to be about 120 000 people living in full or in part on social assistance that we have long waiting lists for both medical treatment and for proper rehabilitation or rehabilitation measures Did I hear, ‘It’s typical Norwegian to be good’? The list is not exhaustive! I believe this is definitely not something to be proud of. That's why I'm also horrified when I hear representatives of the left-hand side talk about how much more in social welfare people are going to get, instead of talking about the reduction of sick leave and the rapid follow-up and good treatment of those with special needs should be prioritised rather than those who should be expected to find suitable work at their own hands to prevent exclusion through a strong commitment to quality in school, giving all a proper basic competence, so that no student becomes dependent on and falls away from making it more profitable to go from social security to work, so that anyone who can and will work should also be financially motivated, without losing the security it provides to be able to have a social security benefit to fall back on In the Right's Alternative Budget, we have made more proposals on how to reduce sick leave, how to make working more profitable, and how to get more from social security to work. The majority have been passive and have evaluated neither one of the opposition's proposals nor one of the many proposals and input that came from different organisations and groups during the budgetary procedure in the Committee. It must be a cross of thought for a socialist government that, despite the good times, there are so many thousands of people who are not allowed to participate. If we continue to accept or silently look at that approx. 700,000 people are out of work, we're moving towards a 3/4 society. I can't help but remember what the red-green parties said about poverty in the previous big-time election fight. The current opposition politician and SV leader, Kristin Halvorsen, said that poverty could be eliminated with a ‘pen stroke’ and that it was only a political will it was about. After two years as Minister of Finance, Kristin Halvorsen has obviously discovered how uncomfortable it is to meet himself in the swing door and get it in the middle of the flint. The fight against poverty is important, but there are no simple hocuspocus solutions. Only systematic, targeted efforts over time deliver results. That is why the Bondevik II government, as the first ever, presented a concrete action plan against poverty, which over the course of four years totaled up to SEK 4.9 billion in targeted poverty measures – and that is, at a time when public tax revenue was more than DKK 130 billion lower than today. The right considers that one of the most effective poverty measures is to improve the housing support system. That's why we've invested 90 million in our poverty effort. to strengthen the housing aid and to continue the action ‘Towards an owner-occupied dwelling’, which the Government has decided to terminate. Let's add another 20 million. in the case of child care and youth activities, which are to ensure that children receive a leisure offer and are not to be recruited to environments characterised by violence and crime. Increased bets on the drug field and graduated kindergarten prices for low-income families will help the weakest to receive an offer and that disadvantaged people will have an opportunity to work. Well-being is not about everything to everyone, but about helping those who have fallen outside. Right-wing poverty is just doing that. In the last ten years, the right has been committed to contributing to the reform of the pension system, a reform that ensures future pensions and secures the welfare society. When development over several decades has been that we start later in working life, work shorter, retire earlier in retirement and live longer, our current pension system would not be economically sustainable. Therefore, a pension reform was imperative. Although there was a very broad majority behind the pension agreement and the reform, it is a very fragile political building, in the sense that it is not now possible to change key elements, for example: related to the AFP, without it all raging together. I ask the State Council to note this, because the pension agreement says that contractual pension should be part of the future pension system, but the current scheme needs to be modified and adapted to the main intention of the pension reform, namely that it should pay off to work. The goal in the future is to get more people to do more work. In addition to the budget adopted for 2008, the Right has proposed to remove all curtailment of pensions also for 68 and 69 year-olds. In addition, several measures are proposed to help seniors to work longer than to get rid of the AFP. This would help to ensure that more people aged 62–67 remain in work rather than lose early retirement. The right has proposed a separate tax bill of NOK 6000 per year. for all over 62 years. Together with raising the bottom line for all employees, this helps to make working more profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e427	The President shall assume that the representative shall make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e430	I take up the proposal from the Right and the proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e435	The representative Martin Engeset has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e440	The Web pages of the Right may be entertaining reading, for example: There we find a comparison of tax policies before and now. The right considers that there is evidence to support: ‘Reduced taxes provide more growth, optimism and contribute positively to the individual’s initiative and creativity.’ And ‘lower taxes help to strengthen well-being,’ says a present Right-Representative. In the welfare perspective, there is also another fiscal comparison which, at least, I believe, is very interesting, namely the gap between the Right's proposals for tax relief for next year of DKK 3.4 billion, and the Progress Party's proposal of DKK 21.4 billion. Financial spokesperson in the Right, Jan Tore Sanner, has stated that it is totally inappropriate for the Right to support such a proposal. A question to the Right in this regard: does it mean that not all tax laws strengthen well-being? And if the answer to that is yes, where, in the Right's view, does the limit between lower taxes that strengthen well-being and lower taxes that do the opposite? Which side of that limit does the Right consider the Progress Party to be located? A little interesting with a view to future cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e456	Yeah, it's okay to try. I'm most concerned with profiling Right Policy. The proposals we are promoting, for example: in relation to each state budget, we believe that we are within a responsible, sensible framework. From that point of view, we are working to maximise the openness of the Right Policy. So I hope that the voters see the same thing, and help the Right get the most impact and strength after a 2009 election victory, which can make most of the Right's policy the root of future bourgeois cooperation. But it is true, as the representative Lise Christoffersen points out, that there is a good connection between the tax reliefs that were carried out in the last period, of which the red-greens have retained two thirds – then it may not have been too bad, even though they spend a lot of time rhetorically presenting it as the major disaster, so 24 billion dollars are retained by these tax reliefs – and the basis for a fairytale growth in public revenue in the last two years. This has basically been a huge success, and I thank you for giving me the opportunity to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e465	It is a little difficult to avoid reminding the representative that the labour market policy of his party’s government had a very low level of action, both for the ordinary job-seekers and for the disabled, with the result that very many who needed action did not receive it, and that the needs and shortages of labour also increased in the labour market during that government. Now we see that the Right continues this policy by cutting down not only in labour market measures but also in the state of transition that is currently undergoing both the need for increased labour force in the labour market and the qualification needed by the unemployed to be able to benefit from the labour market. How can the Right explain that it is right to cut these resources when the labour market is screaming for more labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e474	Unlike many of my political competitors and opponents on the left hand side, who I have the impression of many times are most concerned about getting the most action possible, we are busy getting the most in the job. The group that we are particularly concerned with helping are those who have different occupational disabilities and need extra assistance and help. Therefore, in its alternative proposal for a State budget, the Right promotes a proposal to strengthen the number of seats by a total of 1 000 in addition to what the red-greens propose. There we have a very good conscience. In a situation where there are many tens of thousands of job vacancies, we do not see the need to maintain the same level of regular labour market measures for the next year as in 2007. There are many of these who, without too many problems, will be able to get a job on their own, without having to go many months or years of action first.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e479	What made me take the floor was the line from Lise Christoffersen. It is such that Martin Engeset and we have seen the negotiations that have been between the Workers' Party and SV, where SV wanted to notify Norway out of NATO and wanted to stand for a completely different foreign policy than what has been carried out for many, many years. The previous government, with the support of the Progress Party, was given increased tax relief to the population, which has led to higher tax revenue, more people in work, less day-to-day pay and more profitability in businesses. My question is: When you look at the problems the Labour Party and the SV had in the negotiations, the representative from the Right does not believe it is possible in negotiations with the Progress Party to reach an agreement on lower taxes, etc., etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e488	It is clear that this is a major issue, and some policy areas are more demanding than others – I should honestly admit that. But I think it is gratifying to note, for example. In the context of the budgetary position we are now discussing, from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, it has been possible to consult with the Progress Party on several points, that the Progress Party has applied with us, and also the Christian People's Party and the Left on a number of points. So I think a lot of the disagreement that at least in this budget debate is trying to sketch up is reconstructed. I must also note that, in the middle of the previous ageing period, there was at least a significantly greater disagreement between the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party than there are between several of the civil parties at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e495	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e498	The Christian People's Party shall promote an alternative proposal for the disposal of the framework made available under Framework Area 7. In the financial position, we had an alternative budget proposal that allowed us to remove the curtailment of pensions against income for all between 67 and 70 years. If the government parties had supported that proposal, they would comply with the promise of the Prime Minister and the Government to the country's retirement pensioners. I record that the government parties in this setting also do not say anything about removing this curtailment in the future, so then it becomes up to them to explain logically why curtailment is unreasonable between 67 and 68 years, but reasonable between 68 and 69 years, and then unreasonable again after 70 years. Within the agreed framework, the Christian People's Party prioritises strengthening efforts towards vulnerable groups in the labour market. Total appropriations for labour market measures are increased by 33 million. In addition to the Government's proposals, we give greater priority to action aimed at people with more extensive needs for assistance and the need for longer careers. In other respects, the Council of State has accused the Christian People's Party of wanting labour market measures to be as costly as possible. Of course that's not the case. Labour market measures are not intended to keep people away from the labour market, but to qualify them for it — on a lasting basis. However, we fear that a pressure to get the most actionplaces within the given allocation may lead to people who actually need longer careers to succeed in the labour market not getting the follow-up or quality of the offer they need. The Christian People's Party is true to say a little surprised that even SV does not bribe over the cut in reintroduction money – where the right to reintroduction money after the end of reintroduction is reduced from six to three months. During the hearing we had strong reactions to this. Most people thought that this group, which has the most difficult starting point for getting a job within the short time frame, only has social support as an alternative. The FFO saw the proposal as a purely life-supporting measure that would promote poverty. It becomes extra strange when the same parties defend the waiting pay system with beaks and claws. Then it becomes clear which groups you are concerned with protecting, and who is less dangerous with it. Since the Christian People's Party is now promoting a disposal proposal within the framework, government parties are given an additional opportunity to demonstrate in practice that they will achieve full equality of social security rights for self-employed persons in connection with pregnancy and childbirth with rights of ordinary workers without the bill being paid by industry itself. Our proposal will lead to more women daring to start their own jobs. There will be more varied jobs. That's good family policy, and that's good equality policy. It's not common in a budget setting to read that 140.4 million. kr made available for health and rehabilitation services is placed ‘on hold’ as a reserve item directly below the Ministry. I am aware that there is a distinction between health-related rehabilitation and work-related rehabilitation, and that this distinction reflects how the total of well over 760 million. kr is distributed between two government councils. But in practice, the limit is not knife sharp. The Christian People's Party thinks it is strange that there should be vacant capacity in several rehabilitation institutions owned by private, non-profit institutions, while there are people in line waiting for the same kind of offer. These institutions thus have both capacity, good competence and good quality of service. We are therefore particularly encouraging the Council of State to consider whether some of the 140 million. kr may be used to increase the use of the treatment offered by those institutions. With this I will include the Christian People's Party and Christian People's Party and the Left's proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e518	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e523	The Christian People's Party wants to appear as a party for the weak groups, and claims they want to use much more than the government of the poor in Norway. But as we go closer to the Christian People's Party, we see that the funding of the Christian People's Party's impoverishment is of a rather doubtful social nature. The unemployed are expected to contribute 54.4 million. kr by cutting it into labour market measures and tightening it up on permitting schemes. Those who lose their job after bankruptcy will contribute 46.7 million. kr, by reducing the rights of the remuneration guarantee scheme. For health and rehabilitation kits Christian People's Party 200 million. kr. At sea, the low pay is 317 million. kr, by the Christian People's Party changing the net pay scheme to include only the officers on Norwegian ships. Does not the representative Woie Duesund think it is immoral to allow those who have little in advance to pay for the Christian People's Party's impoverishment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e532	First of all, it's wrong what the representative Henriksen says. In our alternative budget, and within the framework of today, we are increasing labour market measures by 33 million. kr more than the government proposal. When it comes to permitting, I notice that someone has a different tone when in the opposition than in the position. Once we've promoted cuts in the past, it's been viewed as very unsocial. Now the government cuts 4 weeks in the rules of leave without talking about it at all. We support what the Government does in terms of the number of waiting days, that they should go down from four to three. And we're going to do the same for the fishermen. They should not have waiting days at all – because the employer does not initially provide money – so that fishermen can be paid earlier. When we do that, it's precisely to correct the social cuts that the Government has proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e539	All opposition parties say they want to strengthen the poverty effort. I think that the Christian People's Party is the only one of the opposition parties that really does, so it's going to pay tribute to the Christian People's Party. But as the last replicator, I must also say that I am asking questions about how to do it in some areas. You get into a situation where you take from the poor to give to the poor. Then there is one issue that we have from the financial position, where the Christian People's Party is taking away 200 million. kr from the ‘rescue back’ scheme, which is part of a negotiated agreement under the IA agreement, and thus one wants the State to break the agreement between the social partners and the authorities. Does not the Christian People's Party believe that the IA agreement is so valuable that it is very unfortunate to break concluded agreements in that way? I seem to remember that the opposition parties a year ago had a rather aggressive tone in what happened in the budget work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e548	I would like to remind you once again that we have not cut the labour market measures. We've totaled them up by over 30 million. kr. We've fixed the unsocial cut for return money in waiting time of $30 million. kr, on which this government cut. We've given more in housing support. In the case of ‘Ractors back’, we have said that part of the money will be used where there is free capacity at institutions such as: non-governmental organisations operate. I find it strange that the representative from the Central Party wants people to stand in line rather than get help from institutions that have available capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e555	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e558	There is now a major reform work in the field of social and labour relations. Pension reform and NAV are among the largest reforms implemented over many decades. In addition, we are now working on a third major reform, in the form of a new law on discrimination and accessibility for people with disabilities, which not least the disabled themselves look forward to with great enthusiasm. When the Progress Party, the Right and the Left say in a note that the reform work in the public sector has stopped, I see it as a very unwarranted argument for the budget cuts proposed by these parties. The government is accused of not wanting to reform, but at the same time building down the apparatus needed to implement the reforms. We have to tolerate opposition, but this is opposition rhetoric I want to warn against listening to. Then it can be claimed that part of this reform work is actions that the opposition is behind and that the previous government is also working on. Yeah, that's right. But the ability to want to reform is not enough, it also needs to implement to achieve results, and we have a government and a majority that has this implementation power. That's a lot of pleasure. Another feature of our debate today, which gives cause for concern, is the extent to which there has been a political shift of focus in the welfare debate. The poverty debate is the best example. The red-green parties have challenged themselves through the Soria Moria formula to eliminate poverty. It's a very ambitious goal. We are actively working to live up to our ambitions, delivering money and new measures through each budget. And we also have to keep doing that. This year, the qualifying programme with qualification support is the great promise. In these areas, I record that there are less alternative policies that characterise opposition alternatives than there are markers through a little more on individual items that are paid less on other items. In one area, however, I am very surprised at the budgetary options of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left in particular. It is in the context of the large cuts in labour market measures proposed by these parties. They talk several places about the importance of helping more people into work, but cut where the tools are inserted. Just at a time when we have a high demand for labour — just at that time — it is necessary to demonstrate the ability to strengthen the public measures that qualify for employment, government parties believe. The target group on labour market measures is those who need qualification in order to be attractive in a selective labour market. For the unskilled, for the disabled, for those who have to be re-trained because of illness, it is more important than ever that we have labour market measures that can provide the assistance that gives the individual the opportunity to work rather than unemployment or social security. And it's actually what's been ruined in the past as ordinary labour market measures, which is the most important resource for just these groups in this context. It is then pointed out that NAV does not spend its money this year. They cover the number of action areas, but are cheaper than the budget framework opens. The question both NAV and we have to ask ourselves is whether these cheap measures have been good enough to give people a lasting place in the world of work. I hope so, but we know that, among other things. criticisms have been raised by the disabled against the fact that the courses of qualification may be too short to provide sufficient competence for permanent work. Neither the individual nor the employer nor society earns. The Party notes that ‘it is necessary to require those with residual working capacity to take advantage of it’. Right says: ‘Each individual activity must be required. The welfare system, the tax system and the employment legislation must be transformed in such a way that activity and participation become a core principle.» From this point of view, the progress of the project is more than 800 million. kr in the labour and social budget. Right cutters close to 200 million. kr. No one is against making demands on the individual. The qualification programme just represents such an agreement to provide for the benefit of the auxiliaries. The problem with the Progress Party and the Right is that they remove some of the prerequisites for being able to deliver. This is done when you go to work so hard in the measures that are needed to really be able to get people into the world of work. It is also true that for us in the Centre Party, it is important that we also have work measures aimed at disabled people, for example. social security and mentally retarded persons. We attach great importance to the sustainable development and maintenance of the jobs that have been created. But it doesn't get like just spending money on that's what gives people the opportunity to get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e587	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e590	At the end of the 1990s, the Central Party and the Advance Party were quite united in getting a boost for the country's minimum pensioners. In the context of the social security scheme, Sundsbø also said that it wanted to return to the ordinary budgetary procedure in order to take concrete action on how to improve the standard of living and the economic conditions of the country's minimum pensioners. On Friday 29 June, his party and former councillor Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad said to the Newspaper: ‘I mean the way to go is to raise minimum pensions, but the Ministry of Finance does believe that this is too expensive, and it also stops.’ She went on to say, ‘The low rates are clearly discriminatory in women’. Does the representative Sundsbø agree with his party and former Council of State? Or is it what she said to the Newspaper on June 29th, no longer representative of what the Center Party means?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e607	It is true that some minimum pensioners are among those who come out the most difficult, especially lone minimum pensioners, and among them are, as Ragnhild Queseth Haarstad pointed out, most women. I note with amazement that the Progress Party in its commitment wants to eliminate the differences between cohabiters, married persons and lone minimum pensioners, and therefore has no particularly targeted effort in this context. I am pleased that we have been given increased housing support through the work that has been done on the budget here in Stortinget by the majority parties. I think it is also important to look forward to it further, and I am pleased that we have a protocol in the social security system that says that the ministry, together with the social security partners, will go through the measures to look at the most targeted measures to raise the level of those who have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e614	I have to be allowed to say that I think it is something special that the representative Sundsbø in his main post here in this budget debate basically talks about the politics of other parties and attacks it, rather than talking about his own. From that I can conclude that it is certainly far more comfortable to talk about the politics of other parties than its own. But there will be a slightly special form of political debate when, on the one hand, you draw a caricature of the policy of a political opponent, and then you attack it. It gets very skeptical and trendy. But since the representative Sundsbø was so very concerned about this with labour market measures, I would draw his attention to page 16 of the budget position, where it appears under heading 634 that the Right actually proposes 5,082 million. kr for labour market measures. It could not have gone past the Sundsbø house. In fact, we are strengthening the number of places for disabled people with a total of 1000 in addition to the Government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e622	I spoke in my main speech about the importance that, in the situation we are today, with a labour market that demands labour, we put in targeted resources, targeted measures, to help those who are the weakest among the jobseekers. This is where the Right Party, the Advance Party and also the Left are fundamentally failing. I also said in my speech that cutting as much as you do in so-called ordinary labour market measures, and moving it over to measures for people with disabilities, is positive for those who are completely out of work, for those who are insured, for those who are mentally retarded, for example, but it doesn't mean much to all those who need schooling to get into normal working life. I don't understand that in a situation where you talk so much about giving to enjoy, you have to get people to work, you cut so dramatically into the tools that can really help us get people to work. It has to be qualified.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e629	I have noted with interest the connection that the Central Party gives to the proposal to reduce the period of one person's right to reintroduction after completion of the reintroduction, from six to three months. It is a cut that the Christian People's Party is known to oppose, since we believe that this has a very unsocial impact side and hardly leads to people coming back to work faster. At the hearing there was also massive opposition to that proposal, to that reduction. It was thought that this would lead to people entering a passive social welfare period instead of promoting the working line, which we also support. Does the representative Sundsbø think that the level of return money today is just so high that it is a big problem, and that people refuse to apply for a job, and thus lose the benefit?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e636	I believe that both the Central Party and the Christian People's Party agree that it is important to get to work as quickly as possible after a return run has ended. So the question is, how long do you have to pay with a refund in order to achieve that? It's not with the light heart we've cut it from six to three months, as it is. We are pleased to note that the Ministry says that this is meant to be defended because active measures are needed to assist job seekers to get to work more quickly. If you do that, that's the best part of it. If you don't get it done, if it turns out it doesn't work, we'll be willing to look at this when we get to the next budget. But the goal is to get people to work as quickly as possible, and use the apparatus we have, to achieve it. That's what the government is telling you to put even more emphasis on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e641	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e644	The left would stress that participation in the labour market is one of the most important measures for individual citizens to secure themselves and their families against poverty and social exclusion. There has hardly been a better situation in the labour market than at present, where unemployment is at its lowest level in several decades. This shows that the Bondevik II government provided the basis for the positive developments we see in today's labour market. It will be important to have policies that support innovators and entrepreneurs, as well as facilitate research and education. But it will also be of great importance to have a tax system that does not strangle the human creation – the welfare society of the future will depend on this. It is therefore appropriate to strengthen efforts towards those people with disabilities who will also be able to contribute to their work if they are given an opportunity to participate. Not all people have the same opportunities to enter the ordinary working life and therefore cannot provide for themselves. With the introduction of a civil salary, a guaranteed minimum income, many of them will have a new opportunity. A civil salary shall not lead to inaction or to impede active job-seeking for the recipient. It should be a personal action plan which should be broadly defined. The individual user must himself be involved in setting a target for his activity, which must not mean wage work, but which can accommodate several types of activities that allow each individual to help himself to have a better and more stable life. An increase in the income of social welfare recipients will give a dignity to a group of people who are too often passive clients today. It is time- and resource-consuming to go from office to office and constantly explain their needs. An increase in this group's income will give many opportunities to spend time differently, and this in itself will have positive effects that are difficult to measure in dollars and cents. The left’s solution to pay citizens will help to prevent people from feeling like clients, counteract passivity, and make it easier to know what they are entitled to from the public. It will also create more dignity and justice in social policy because it opens up more individual-oriented solutions, which are the vision of the Left. The left considers that pay for citizens is more accurate than the NAV qualification programme because it does not separate an A and B team from the social welfare beneficiaries. In its alternative budget, the left has re-focused DKK 1 billion more on poverty measures, among others. citizens’ salaries, housing allowances, dental health, care allowances for parents with disabled children, homeless drug addicts, lone dependants and increased commitment to integration. Among the worst are people who don't live, and many of these are defined as uninhabitable. The vast majority of the population will be able to provide housing for themselves, but some disadvantaged people have problems living and entering the housing market. Children’s protection on the way out of the institution have problems finding housing, as do drug users. Especially for those who have had problems at an early stage of life, it will be essential to have an owner-occupied dwelling under as stable conditions as possible. Many drug users have difficulty finding housing in drug-free settings after staying at a detoxification facility or housing. Without a fixed address, it is very difficult to get a job and get on with it. In order to be rehabilitated and stem from various types of drug use, owner-occupied housing is therefore of major importance. There is a great need for more housing for disadvantaged people both in cities and districts today, and many are waiting for their own housing. The municipalities have few rental homes, and very little social housing is being built. Despite these needs, several municipalities have chosen to sell away from social housing. Many people who have a more demanding everyday life than most, are probably families with disabled children. One cannot, of course, decide that days should be simplified, but one can contribute to a simplified bureaucracy, so that these parents can spend less time getting an overview of the possibilities and benefits of auxiliaries. With a care allowance for families with disabled children, this would be a simplification reform that would make everyday life easier and make it easier for parents to escape some of the difficulties that today's system presents. In order to have a well-functioning well-being society, we depend on a forward-looking industrial policy. It will therefore be important to ensure that self-employed persons enjoy equal rights to maternity and maternity benefits as other workers do. A number of entrepreneurs and others start out small with their own businesses. It is therefore necessary to make this group equal with regard to social security rights for maternity and maternity benefits. Equality of these rights will also help to ensure that more women will dare to start their own jobs for themselves and others. One is satisfied that the government is proposing to grant self-employed rights to maternity benefits and parental benefits from the social security system of 100 p.m. coverage with effect from 1 July 2008. I do not fully understand that strengthening the social security rights of self-employed workers is to be financed by introducing an increased social security charge for the same group. In the event of an incurrency, the Left is not included in proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party, which the Left will support.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e667	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e670	At the same place about the same time last year – in the budget debate – Left gave the government the honor for the work on the qualification program that was then on the drawing board. Now the Left proposes to cut the appropriations for the qualification programme by 180 million. kr and transfer it to a new probationary system of so-called "citizen-pays" for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. When I hear the representative of Skkelstad saying in his post now, I have to say that I don't see the big difference in what Left wants, and what exactly are the intentions of the qualification programme. So my questions to Skkelstad are: what has happened to the Left since the budget debate last year, where one was positive to the thinking behind the qualification programme? And question 2: what is the difference between the test scheme that the Left will now introduce and the approved qualification programme, except for the level of social benefits of 2G and 2.5G?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e679	The representative Myrli points to the large difference of 2G and 2.5G. I can go into what's the real difference. As I also said in my post, the Left believes that a qualification programme has a lot of good in it; there is no doubt about it, but to a greater extent than citizen's wages, it will target the freshest of the social welfare recipients. Citizen pay will also apply to those who suffer the worst, and in this way the salary of the citizen will be much better and will have better success in combating poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e684	The left continues to repeat the error that they want to spread about the qualification programme and the benefit, namely that it will only apply to the very freshest of those receiving social assistance today. That's not right. The qualification programme should be open to all, and should be a wide range of services to people who are very far from the workplace. It is alarming that the Left is the party that actually cuts the most also in action places, which should be able to help people either for qualification programmes or for citizens' wages, because they should probably also have some help to get out of work. I have to say, it's very eye-catching. But what's perhaps even more eye-catching in the Left's budget is that they also tickle car benefits for disabled people. The left hand side is the only part that does it. They increase the time that disabled people have to wait before they can replace their car. Does Left think that this is a good contribution to the economy or to the ability to work for people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e691	Both the representative and I have been told that cars today last much longer than they did before. A lifetime for a car today is approx. 19 years, and then we don't think it's going to be a big problem if you have to wait another year, for 12 years, towards today 11 years, before you can replace the car. With regard to the qualification programme that the representative Karin Andersen is asking about, I still believe, as I thought last year, that it is more focused on the line of work than the salary of the citizen, and will not therefore include the most disadvantaged group of social welfare beneficiaries, who will then not have the same opportunity for activity or an action plan for their future life. That is why I believe that the pay for citizens is much more accurate than the qualification programme. What's a little special is that earlier was SV – if I'm not wrong – very much for a kind of social pay that in many ways is similar to a citizen's salary, but it's clearly a abandoned theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e698	Like the other opposition parties, the Left also adorns itself with its great commitment to increasing poverty reduction, but, as we have also heard, it is funded by the Government's efforts to help the poorest, i.e. qualifying aid, vehicle subsidies, and labour market measures. Does the Left see that this is more a re-prioritisation of poverty measures than a new initiative? Then to the rest. Does the Left not believe that it is important to assist and help the weakest who are on the edge of the labour market once again into the labour market, when they cut so dramatically at all the measures put forward by the Government in that area? We all agree that the weakest people who cannot work should also have assistance – social security and social assistance. We're going to look at all of that. But doesn't the Left have any faith that it's useful to help people get back to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e706	It must now be a serious misunderstanding when the representative Sundsbø is unable to read what it says. It's true that left re-prioritizes 180 million. kr from the qualification programme to the payroll, but in addition to that, we're adding 120 million. kr. The representative Myrli couldn't quite see the difference here. I have tried to make clear the difference, namely that the system of pay for citizens is a significantly more accurate system to help the very poor. In addition to what the representative Sundsbø points to, I would just like to say that we are more focused on actions. We're going to spend 28.5 million. I would call it a very targeted measure. In addition, we are also increasing the measures for the homeless and housing support more than what the Government is doing. As many have said earlier in the debate, it is one of the truly sure measures to get the poor out of poverty and at the same time get them into action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e713	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e716	Of course, there has been a lot of focus in the debate on the labour market situation. There's no doubt that that situation is characterized by that challenging us. It challenges us in the sense that very many companies report that recruiting the necessary labour force is the biggest challenge. At the same time, it is also so important that we are focused on and aware of how many opportunities the situation we now have in the labour market gives us. From the point of view of the individual in the debate, it seems that nothing has happened in the labour market since the government change. At best, it's a misunderstanding. 150,000 more have come to work in two years. We see that long-term unemployment goes down to those degrees. We see that youth comes to work. We see that seniors come to work. We see that more and more companies now have very active recruitment programs for seniors, and that the unemployment rate among seniors is falling. We see that the immigrant population is coming to work. We see that more disabled people come to work. In short, development is positive for all groups for which we have ambitions to increase employment. We are a country in the world where many live by disability, but we are also among the countries in the world where the highest proportion of the population is at work. So the Norwegian labour market works well, and we are adding more and more to it. But then, of course, the government acknowledges that there are still unemployed. So we're going to go on, and we're therefore going to be spending heavily on the budget for next year, just focusing on getting more people to work. Many have been concerned about the level of intervention. In connection with St.meld. No 9 for 2006-2007 said that we should move away from the distinction between normal and action places for people with disabilities. We must distinguish between those who need assistance and those who do not need assistance in relation to the labour market. Therefore, the Government is now placing so much emphasis on the overall level of action in the 2008 budget. Thus, the overall level of intervention is 40 000 places — as high as this year, despite a long decline in unemployment. So the action intensity is increasing. A good example of this is, for example: the qualification programme. On the one hand, the qualification programme gives the right to benefits, but primarily the right to activity, participation in actions, to get into a job that is individually adapted. For those participating in the qualification programme, action places are some of the important things. It is crucial when, in 2008, we are now going to have 5 500 people left from social assistance to active action, that we also focus on a high level of intervention. In my opinion, the representatives who have the overall level of action as an important scale do the right thing. We also introduce sustainable wage subsidies throughout the country. We are already seeing a very positive response in terms of long-term salary subsidies, based on the experiment that has been in five counties this year. We are liquidating the waiting aid, but we are introducing a guarantee of action for the long-term unemployed. We cancel the pension or labour income test for 67-year-olds — to mention some of the many examples of the government’s budget to which the Storting joins for 2008 is very offensive and active in order to bring an even greater proportion of the population into the labour market. The last thing I want to mention in my contribution is the heavy effort we are making to phase in the NAV reform and the pension reform. It is always fun and inspiring to adopt reforms. It's a heavy job to finance their phase-in. Thus, in the next year's budget, the implementation of the NAV reform and the pension reform is almost DKK 1.7 billion. It is absolutely necessary money, but I understand that it is not the money that has the most attention in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e731	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e734	There is reason to expect that next year's pay bill will be marked by AFP. While the trade union movement and now the last SV National Government have required the continuation of the current system, the Stortinget and the Government, including the Swedish Government, have decided that the AFP scheme needs to be amended and adapted to the pension reform. For the Right, it is absolutely essential that the Government does not fold one inch in relation to the pension agreement. Any movement away from the working line would jeopardise the broad consensus on retirement. It is important that the country’s pension system is determined in the Storting and not left to the social partners. It is important that the Government fulfills its information obligation towards us as settlement partners, in relation to what is to be done concretely. Can the Council of State assure me and the Right that he and the Government will insist that the AFP system be designed neutrally, so that it is fully possible to combine work and retirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e743	Actually, I could only have answered yes to these questions. But let me elaborate by saying that we are of course very aware that the pension agreement we have entered into in connection with St.meld. No 5 for 2006-2007 on the pension reform is designed in such a way that, on some points, the decision to raise the deficit makes a derogation from what the Government proposed in the Single European Act. Otherwise, the notification applies. The impact notification is relatively precise in describing the challenge of the future AFP, where the question of what is often called a neutral scheme, i.e. the full integration of work and pensions, including the AFP, is an important part of the overall pension reform. We're aware that it's part of the deal and will of course have it as a starting point for our work on the process around the AFP.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e748	I'm going to use part of my post afterwards today on lack of information, knowledge of aids and good organisation of them, especially in the field of training and work organisation. I perceive that the Council of State is also concerned about this problem. The question is whether he has lost faith in improving the situation. In 2006, 112.7 million were used. kr below this chapter. A budget of 108 million is proposed for 2008. kr. Is that decrease in appropriations a signal that the Council of State still does not want to give priority to this area? Is it a signal that he doesn't believe that we're getting better information and the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e755	I think it's very important to see that allocation in connection with the allocation of organising grants, which has been greatly increased. The total allocation to enable, for example: contributing to the organisation of jobs for people in need of it has been significantly increased. So I'm going to give the questioner the right idea that there's no doubt that we have challenges in the organisation of the resource area. Some of the challenges have such a character that we can do something with them now. It's NAV on the move. However, some challenges require a more thorough reorganization of the whole resource area. That's why I want to set up a public sample that will have the task of reviewing the entire resource area, and make proposals for a new overall organisation of this whole area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e762	Governments and his staff have provided a rich budget proposal with many interesting analyses. One of these analyses – and concrete proposals – supported by the Christian People's Party, I would quote: ‘At the same time, the waiting benefit scheme is proposed to be closed for new cases and with effect from 1 January 2008 to increase the activity with a view to transition to work among persons with long periods of unemployment. The resolution of the waiting aid must be seen, inter alia, in the context of the introduction of the long-term unemployment guarantee, the close follow-up of that group, and the good labour market.» My simple question is: what makes such a sensible measure suddenly become unreasonable if we remove the word ‘wages’ and replace it with the word ‘wages’ — that is, do the same thing in relation to the waiting wage system?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e772	The waiting pay system is not part of my constitutional responsibility, so I am not going to answer it in detail. But it is a fact that the waiting pay system is part of an agreement between the employee and the employer. My starting point is that once agreements have been concluded between the social partners, you have to respect those agreements. At least I am not there that the type of agreement between employers' organisations and the state such as the employer and the employee's organisations with a large-scale decision, or a pen stroke, in order to use a wording used in the debate can be cancelled. Out of respect for the social partners, waiting pay initiatives must be addressed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e777	Of course, it could be tempting to take a round in relation to what is not in charge of NAV, but I choose to wait, because it takes a little more time before we can follow exactly that. But I could imagine asking the Council of State the following question: After he has been sitting for two years in the chair and now begins to see the progress and progress in different things – then with the understanding that NAV will take a little longer – what does the Council of State think he has not come as far as he had hoped when he sat down in the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e785	It might have been to get the Left to understand that salary is a wrong track, because it can't possibly be that social welfare beneficiaries who can work are not going to participate in qualification programmes, but are going on a citizen's salary. It must be that if you want to work, if you want to work, if you have work opportunities, you have to take on active measures. If you stand so far away from work that you can't work, you don't have to have a civil salary, you have to have a disability. It is not possible to introduce a completely new, permanent income insurance scheme for social assistance recipients outside the social security system. I am very sorry that I have not come any further to explain to the Left this and have them involved in the qualification programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e790	I record from the reply to the Christian People's Party that the Council of State has great respect for concluded agreements. He then refers to the contract that applies to waiting wages. I record that the same respect was not present a year back when there were contracts on sick pay. But my question goes on a different topic. That's the abbreviation for those who work until they're over 67. The Progress Party has raised this proposal several times in Stortinget. It has unfortunately been voted down. We've always argued that that would make sense, and especially now that we're in a situation where we need more people working. It seems that the government now realizes that it makes sense, removing the abbreviation for those who are 67 years old. My question to the Council of State is, can he explain to me why it is still unreasonable to remove the abbreviation for 68-year-olds and 69-year-olds? And why do they have to wait until 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e799	At least I'm going to make a try, because I don't think anyone from the government machine has said it's unreasonable to remove the abbreviation for 68-year-olds and 69-year-olds. And we're going to remove the abbreviation for everyone from 1 January 2010. However, it is a budgetary issue where, within an economic framework, priority must be given to measures that are believed to have the greatest impact on cost. The government believes that we have the greatest impact in the labour market by removing the abbreviation for 67-year-olds. We think it's easier to get people working, to continue working on the day they're 67, with this measure, and that we're getting less power compared to getting people who've become retired, to go back to work by removing the income test in the middle of the retirement course. When, in contrast to the situation in which the Progress Party is often in, we had to make priorities, we chose not to use the money needed to remove the abbreviation also for 68-year-olds and 69-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e806	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e809	Two days ago there was an interesting interpellation debate in this hall that was about to get more disabled people into work. I note that a new report shows that no mention has been made of measures in the last six years. Still, there are 40,000–50,000 people with disabilities who want to get out of work. I also record the answers given by the Council of State and which I think were relatively positive. I am happy to follow the work of the Council of State in this area, and I also hope that the Council of State will come up with clear, concrete measures to increase the number of people with disabilities. I get a little worried when I read what is in the report of the 2001 Labour Force Survey of the Statistical Centre. In the evening post on Tuesday, December 4, I was able to read a quote from the report that the evening post observed: «People with disabilities are not seen as part of the population but as a group wishing to meet its requirements at the expense of the rest of the population.» I think it's important that we start looking at disabled people as a resource, a resource for society and a resource that the rest of society wants to use. I hope that the Council of State will follow up on the answers he gave in the interview debate, and that he will return quickly to the Stortinget with concrete measures to get this in place. So I want to talk a little bit about what's going on with minimum retirement. In the context of social security this summer, it was said that measures should be brought back in the ordinary treatment of the State budget. It is true that the proposition states that, together with the organisations, we want to clarify the situation of pensioners before they come back. This kind of surprises me. Because this summer, the SSB came up with its living conditions survey. What does it show for the living conditions survey? Well, it shows that we have over 73,000 single-dwelling minimum pensioners, and that the single-dwelling pensioners have less than social welfare recipients. Also, when an estimate of property income and housing support is made, they have less than social beneficiaries, and they also have less than the EU definition of the poverty line. And we know that 64 pst. of the minimum resident pensioners have chronic diseases. We also know that there are nearly 6,000 of those who have problems paying municipal taxes or the electricity bill. And we also know that there are about 20,000 of those who can't afford meat or fish every other day, and that 45,000 of them can't afford to go on vacation. It shows the living conditions survey to the SSB, presented this summer. It's the group that's got it all, the worst. Then I am a little surprised when the government wants to wait to take action, want to investigate this further and want the SSB to look more into these issues. What are the conditions the Government wants the SSB to look at? What is unclear in the living conditions survey presented this summer, which makes it impossible to make a decision and has not been able to make it in the context of the State budget? I experience this as a postponement and a small training of what was promised in connection with the social security scheme. I should have liked the former Labour Party Council Thorbjørn Berntsen to continue to be involved in the policy and to have a hand in social policy in the Workers' Party. For Friday, June 29, Berntsen says to the Newspaper: ‘I don’t understand how many of these women make it go around. The pension is too low, you don't have to go many rounds in a grocery store to see it." Shouldn't that also be a clear signal that you could actually have done something now to raise the minimum pension? Berntsen is absolutely right. Therefore, once again, I challenge the government parties to be more concrete: what will be further investigated? Why can't there be any concrete action? The experience of these minimum pensioners in the context of the State budget this year is just an increase in the electricity charge, an increase in medicines and an increase in the TV licence. In other words, those who have the most difficulty already are those who get the tax snipers and tax snipers with the current government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e839	The government has ambitious targets for participation and equality work. The goal is a society in which everyone can participate actively — on the basis of different assumptions, but on equal terms. As Minister for Children and Gender Equality, as a result of changes in the composition of the Government, I have assumed responsibility for the anti-discrimination work of the Government. Coordination of policies for people with disabilities has also become part of my remit. In addition, I have taken over the work on the new Discrimination and Availability Act. And last but not least, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has assumed the administrative responsibility of the Discrimination Act, which covers discrimination on grounds of ethnicity, religion, age, etc. With this coordination, the government wants to strengthen work on gender equality and anti-discrimination. Norway will become a better country to live in — for more. Norway should be an inclusive society, not only for the majority but also for minorities: people with a minority background, people with different beliefs, who have a different way of life, or who have disabilities. To achieve the objectives of an inclusive society, the Government is working along several lines. I would like to briefly mention the measures we have taken, which we are planning to prevent discrimination against people with disabilities and to increase the accessibility of society. First of all, we need legal protection. The government is following up the proposal of the Syse Committee in NOU 2005:8 Equivalency and accessibility, and we are aiming to transmit the bill to the Stortinget during the spring. In parallel, the Government is working on changes to the Planning and Building Act. This work is a follow-up to the Syse Committee's proposal. In addition, this year we have reduced a sample to enforce an overall anti-discrimination law. The Committee shall have completed its work on 1 July 2009. The government has started work on a new action plan for increased accessibility. The aim of the new plan is to remove barriers in society and to prevent the creation of new barriers, and the work on the action plan is closely linked to the proposal for a new law. The aim is to present the plan in the autumn of 2008. The government has also started work on the revision of the strategy plan for families with disabled children. It is important that the Government helps to enable these families to cope with the challenges. Several measures are being considered in the fields of several departments. The government will also continue to strengthen its work against racism and ethnic discrimination in 2008. The Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has started work on a new action plan against racism and ethnic discrimination. Furthermore, a broad and systematic survey of the state-sector discrimination situation is under way. The material has been handed over to the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman. The Ombudsman will present his assessments during February next year. The grant to organisations of disabled persons, to the umbrella organisations FFO, the Joint Organisation of disabled persons, and the SAFO, the Cooperation Forum of the organisations of disabled persons, is based on an award key to which the majority of the Grand Duchy has previously given its consent. I am pleased that a joint committee agrees with the Government's proposal to convert the grant to the holiday and well-being provision of disabled people and through it improves the provision of disabled children.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e865	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e868	First I want to say that it is nice to get a new minister to deal with. Then I have a question, which goes on labour immigration. There is a growing demand on the part of many in society to increase the immigration of labour into Norway. But at the same time, we have the problem that we have approx. 620 000 who either receive unemployment benefits or are sickly registered, unfit for work, during rehabilitation or rehabilitating. At the same time, we have one too poor senior policy, for several of the seniors who might want to be out of work are being pushed out. Would it not be better to focus on measures to get more of those in this group out of work, rather than stimulating increased labour migration?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e875	The issue of labour immigration is that of my colleague, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who is well aware of his work on an action plan and a big message in relation to labour immigration. But the government is betting on both, i.e. to actively combat discrimination and to combat all the obstacles that make a good number of people referred to by the representative actually stand on the sidelines of working life. So I want to make sure that we will continue to work against discrimination of all kinds and actively work for equality, because I am absolutely convinced that it will contribute to better professional participation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e880	First of all, I would like to congratulate and wish the Council of States on its new work. One of the priority tasks of the Council of State will be to propose a new anti-discrimination law. It has been claimed that the investigation submitted by the Syse Committee does not meet the requirements of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, as signed by Norway on 30 March of this year. Will the Council of State ensure that the relationship with this Convention is well elucidated and that the social rights of people with disabilities, if any, benefit from the legislative proposal that will be presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e888	I have a great deal of attention to this work to increase the participation of people with disabilities throughout society. The Government is working towards the ratification of the Convention mentioned. It seems quite obvious that on some points the law that is hopefully presented to spring will not be able to meet all the requirements set out in the Convention. But I want to make sure that we work continuously to ensure that all the points are followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e893	It's nice to have new acquaintances, so we've got two government councils, so it's fun in itself. But the other night, the head of the Disability Council said that she was not satisfied with what the Government had done on universal design, and especially on accessibility. Does the Government agree that too little has been done in relation to this problem? For this is one of the major problem areas for people with disabilities when it comes to actually having the opportunity to participate in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e898	I work closely with many of the disabled people's organisations to help us get a good foundation, a good code, to contribute to universal design. We continue to strengthen our work, as I mentioned earlier. I would also like to emphasize that I am very pleased with the broad commitment that the opposition puts up to to strengthen the rights of this group and contribute to the reality of universal design. We need that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e903	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e906	We live in a country where most people have it very well. We have record low unemployment, and the economy is going very well. Most people have a job to do. We have arrangements that will take care of you if you get sick. We have good leave arrangements if you get kids. We're on a good way to reach full kindergarten coverage. In other words, most people live safe, good lives. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. Year after year, we are on top of the UN rankings of which countries are the best to live in. We're going to be happy for that, but we're not going to hit the chest for that reason. Because there are people in Norway who have not taken part in the increase in wealth. There are still many people who experience poor advice and who are struggling to get the ends to meet. Although we have low unemployment, there are still almost 700,000 people who are out of work and who receive some kind of social benefit. Our society is built around being at work. Work creates security. Work ensures income and is the best means of working against poverty. Then it is essential that those who can have the opportunity to get a job. I believe that at a time when unemployment is so low, it is very demanding to be among those who are either unemployed or who are not part of the workforce because they live on some kind of social benefit. I think that in just such a time, the distance to the labour market can be perceived as extremely large. Therefore, I am pleased that the Government still has a great deal of pressure on having a high level of labour market measures, that we are implementing the qualification programme, and that we are keeping pace with implementing the NAV reform. I am also pleased that there is a broad consensus in the UK about implementing the reform, but I am surprised that some are not willing to fund it in full, and are not willing to finance the instruments that are actually needed to eliminate poverty and to get people out of work. The Progress Party writes in the budget position, and now I have to repeat what I said in the reply to the representative, Mr Svendsen, and which he only partly replied that they have such great expectations for the NAV reform and for the qualification programme that they expect many more people to be employed. I have to say that I think it's a bit clever that the same party cuts heavily to the reform itself, which would have led to it being pushed out in time. Not least, I think it's funny that they cut the labour and welfare kits that are actually going to implement it. In its alternative budget, the Progress Party accounts for a total of 431 million. kr. They say they're going to make it more efficient, but if you cut to that size, you have to cut people off. Maybe it's for the Progress Party to streamline, but at least it's not. That sum of progress cuts, that equals the entire 862 year's work, and it's very serious. It's also serious that they're zeroing out the entire qualifying benefit. They write NOK 0 in their budget. The section of the Progress Party would have affected a total of 5,500 long-term social welfare recipients who need qualification to get into work. The progress party is to make demands on the social welfare recipients so that they can find a job, but they are against giving them the help they need, and against providing them with better income protection. At the top of the whole Kitterkrit party strongly in the labour market measures, even if they try to get away from the fact. Minus 300 million. kr is black on white in the budget position. I really don't understand the logic of thinking that you should get more people to work at the same time as you cut the tools. The progress party is playing a number that is very serious. Combating poverty and getting more in work is not a simple operation. It requires that everyone at Stortinget helps to get it done, both in terms of cleaning up legislation that creates problems, and also to be real when it comes to spending money on what is needed. It's nice to move numbers, but for those who could have been hit by this number move, it's serious. You never have to forget that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e925	According to St.prp. No 1 for 2007-2008, the proportion of persons employed among disabled persons is 45,3 pst. in the second quarter of 2007. It's the same level as last year. Despite a great focus and commitment around this theme, there is little progress to be traced in relation to development. Many people experience disability due to the solutions chosen for the design of buildings, the outdoor environment, products, services and, above all, transport solutions. The Committee has worked a lot on the issues of accessibility and has also focused on this in connection with its travels. There's no doubt: we have a terribly long way to go. Lack of availability and organisation must take part in the blame for the fact that the work of getting more people with disabilities into work does not produce the results that we want. When we know that people with disabilities have a total average income of about 75 pst. the income of the population and, at the same time, often high expenditure on medicines and health and social services, the objective of eliminating poverty will largely address this group of people. Then it's about having a social security that you can live off and lower costs. The Progress Party has proposed and allocated money in its alternative state budget to young people and to all those living on minimum pensions, either as an old-age pensioner or as a disability worker. Furthermore, the Progress Party has put forward proposals and allocated money to lower costs of illness. If children with disabilities have the same rights and opportunities for a good and worthwhile life, as well as the ability to work at an adult age, it is essential that measures are introduced into childhood. The Progress Party has therefore also proposed and allocated funds to schools that include students with special needs, additional grants to schools with blind and partially sighted minds and grants to dyslexia students. In addition, we have proposed and allocated funds to enterprises that involve apprentices with special needs. It is a question of providing this group with all the necessary help to ensure that as many of them as possible can be at work to a greater or lesser extent. Both NAV and Norwegian enterprises lack knowledge of disabled people, reports young job seekers with disabilities. This is demonstrated by a knowledge status on IA Sub-Objective 2. Researchers find that there is no correlation between resource use and the number of new jobs. Auxiliary equipment is standardised and slightly flexible. Job seekers walk in the supply chain for no purpose and disabled people experience that the auxiliaries focus on disability and disability rather than on opportunities. In the labour force survey on the disabled, the second quarter of 2007 reports 17 pst. out of 271,000 non-employed disabled people want to work. This represents a staff of about 46 000 people. Of those who belong to the group of persons with disabilities who were in work, 24 stated pst. that they had not been given the job, but that they actually needed it. 17 pst. stated that they had been given some arrangements, but needed further arrangements. If we add to the proportion that is not yet in work, this shows that the need for organisation is enormous, and that this work may be the most important priority first. According to an article in the Newspaper of October 23, Denmark has 10 pst. higher professional participation among persons with disabilities than Norway. The Danish government set out to increase the number of people with disabilities by 2 000 in 2005. Instead, it turned out to be 25 000. The red-green government in Norway set itself a target in 2006 of 5 pst. of all new employees in the State would have reduced working capacity. The achieved 1.2 pst. Instead of increasing the proportion, the government managed to halve it. This shows that the government doesn't do enough, or do the right things, to achieve the goals they set. In the budget debate following the budget debate in this Chamber, the red-green wholesalers boast of their own government's efforts. A little humility in relation to shortcomings should perhaps be enjoyed. Within our field, it's said very nicely, but it's only when the individual experiences a difference, that there's reason to hit the chest. We're not there. Poverty has not been abolished, excesses do not decrease, the proportion of people with disabilities in work in the country and in work in general has not been reached, and information on tools in work and education has not improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e953	Today, we have 38,434 unemployed, according to the NAV website, and the focus of labour market policy is primarily on what we can do to mobilise labour. I want to spend some time on the conditions of the unemployed in this debate. It is still the case that the economic downturn is dramatic for those who become unemployed. The Workers' Party promised in 2005 to reverse the Bondevik Government's cut in the day-to-day pay arrangements. Once the 2008 budget has been adopted, we have reduced the number of waiting days from five to three, and we have ensured in the 2006 budget that unemployed people earn holiday money. It is reassuring that the Right in its alternative budget proposal proposes to increase the number of waiting days to five. It's good to see that the Right is alone about this. However, in the demand for increased mobility among the unemployed, the Right and the Advance Party have found each other. Focusing on coercive measures to get out of work, combined with the cut of these parties in labour market measures of 160 million, respectively. NOK 300 million and SEK 300 million. kr, appears to be a social policy gust of the past. The labour immigration that we enjoy in this country has a shadowy side on which the government has a steady focus. Social dumping is being met by systematic measures, where we strengthen the law. We strengthen the ability and the ability of the supervisory authorities to intervene, and we strengthen the ability of the trade union movement to address negative situations. I notice that the parties on the right are relinquishing to support the necessary measures such as the oversight of contracting entities and the right of access to trusted persons. The progress party's cut-off in the budgets of the supervisory authorities also says something about how deep their willingness to fight social dumping really is. Lack of labour is a problem in today's Norway and will be so in the future. Then we have to make sure to create a working life that makes it possible to keep more people in work longer than people do today. The number of fatal accidents in working life has been more than halved since 1990. There is therefore good reason to assume that the number of accidents has generally had a similar trend, and that is good. The alarming fact is that sick leave is high and that the number of disability pensioners is increasing sharply. The risk of accidents in the workplace is reduced, but stress-related disorders and stress-related disorders appear to be increasing. Researchers believe that as much as half of sick leave is work-related. Thus, working life becomes the main venue for reducing sick leave and disability. In this work we need to wake up and up the supervisory authorities. It is gratifying that the Labour Inspectorate is doing well with its reorganisation, and I welcome the evaluation of the business with great interest. In my contact with the labour market – both with employers and employees – I am concerned that the Labour Inspectorate spends too much time checking the content of internal control systems rather than checking the actual conditions as they look at the individual workplace. It is important that the supervisory authorities have the right balance between contributing to organised health, environmental and safety work and moving out on notifications of unacceptable conditions and putting things in place. There is now a report on occupational health services with recommendations for the introduction of authorisation schemes and the extension of the sectoral regulation, so that more workers are included in the occupational health service. The occupational health service has a key role to play in systematic health, environmental and safety work, and it is a pleasure that we now seem to be able to see through to an old demand in this area. I also record that the Ministry has produced a report on the experience of regional protection agencies in the construction industry, with a view to extending the scheme to other sectors. We see great needs in the service industries, where there are major health, environmental and safety challenges, but unfortunately too little systematic health, environmental and safety work in the workplace. The introduction of regional protection ombudsmen will be a major step forward in these industries. Working life is changing continuously. Old challenges are facing, new ones are emerging. We must constantly keep an eye on how we ensure that working life becomes the scene of life's expansion and development that we want it to be. Only then will we have a sustainable working life that ensures the values upon which our prosperity development depends.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e976	It's going well in the Kingdom. The employment rate is high. Unemployment is record low. Many have had a much better life in recent years. But let's not be so seaworthy that we forget those who don't participate in this prosperity development. Worse still, it's for those who stand outside when you see that so many people are doing well. And in a way, it becomes more difficult and more difficult to get those who are part of the "outership" to become part of the prosperity development. Therefore, targeted schemes must be put in place and the most important thing must be to improve those who have the most difficulty. That is why I believe 1 November was a historic day, with the introduction of the so-called qualification programme – a scheme that, in my opinion, has received far too little attention. So now we're going into targeted action for some of the weakest in society, those who live months, even years of social assistance. The intentions of economic social assistance have never been that people should live on it for a long time, so now we have to do something. The qualification programme is such an instrument. There are large numbers in the budget position of the Labour and Social Committee, and I think we are writing budgetary history today. I'm pretty sure a single budget chapter has never been worth over 100 billion dollars before in the state budget's history. In 2008, the cost of an old-age pension is NOK 101 billion. That's an increase from this year of $8 billion, from $93 billion. The increase in disability pension is from DKK 50 billion in the year's budget to over DKK 54 billion to next year. So we only have an increase of over NOK 12 billion from the budget this year to the budget next year. This is huge amounts of money and will in the long term pose major challenges for the welfare state. I am therefore pleased that there is a large majority in the Grand Hall to introduce a new pension system – not because we are going to cut the cost of neither old age pension nor disability pension, but because we need a pension system that is more sustainable in the long term than the current system is. In the budget setting, opposition parties pay a lot of attention to contractual pension, AFP. It seems that someone now wants the AFP to be alive. In particular, I would like to remind those opposition parties that are part of the two pension agreements, the Left, Right and Christian People's Party, that in both pension agreements, both in 2005 and 2007, it is stated that we should have a contractual pension also in the new pension scheme. It needs to be adapted to the new population’s reputation – yes. But we're still going to have an agreed pension. I hope this does not mean that the Right, Left and Christian People's Party will have a rematch on the pension reform. Finally, let me make a few comments about the government's proposal that 67-year-olds can now work without shortening the pension from popular security. For the first time, something is being done about this – we get to say – controversial issue, where today there are limitations. One can earn how much one wants, but one gets a reduction in the pension if one is between 67 and 70 years. So that's going to do something about it for the first time. Let's take one of the year's courses. The last government did nothing. But when I listen to the debate today, it may seem as if it's almost worse to take a year's coal than not to do anything. To illustrate, let's say that someone's on a Christmas table, for example. Mr Martin Engeset. After dinner he would like to go to the bar and be put on three drinks. He won't, but he'll get one drink. On the Christmas table last year he was not put on a single drink. It must be better to be put on one drink than not to get anyone at all, as the situation was last year. So I think the members of the former government parties should go a little bit quieter in the doors compared to the proposal that now exists, to stop the abbreviation for 67-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e989	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e992	That was a useful reminder of how, sir. Myrli is looking at abbreviations. That was so interesting. The need for labour is increasing in the country. Nearly half of Norwegian companies are struggling to obtain employees, and every fourth company has serious problems recruiting enough people, showing NAV’s business survey. According to employment and welfare director Tor Saglie, there have never been as many people in Norwegian working life as they are now. More than 132,000 people are requested to be recruited into the companies. In particular, the construction industry and parts of the industry are screaming for employees. We know that this need will only increase in the future. At the same time, there are several groups of people standing outside — some who for obvious reasons are sick and unable to work, while others will and will, but will not come in. We have a growth in the number of unsatisfied, especially among young people, which is worrying. We have a high level of sick leave, and there are especially many who have musculoskeletal disorders. There are some groups that don't get in more than others. There are many young boys who, at too young a age, end up in a disability pension. In the last generation there were opportunities for more practical work. Today, everyone has to through theory, whether they like it or not. This is too much to help destroy the motivation to go to school. And for some of these, it's a way into a passive life as a social worker. It is people with different disabilities who do not get in because a number of conditions of work hinder them. The problem of physical availability is an area where the left has great faith that the law can make a difference. Getting a job does not help a disabled person if it is not possible for him to get there. We have such a highly specialized working life that it itself shuts many out. Our work life has become so streamlined that it takes little on those who are not streamlined. There are many immigrant backgrounds that are still not called for an interview because they have ‘wrong’ names, and there are many women and men with ‘wrong’ age. This is a major challenge, to which the Government must place more emphasis. The left believes that employers are now being forced to take in people whether they want to or not, because the lack of labour is as great as it is. The left is positive that everyone who's going to get people out of work is focusing on what people can, and not what they can't. Timeless wage subsidies believe that we are a good system both to ensure those who are falling out of the labour market because of sickness or other reasons and to provide more flexible opportunities for those who are out of the labour market. That is a positive measure. A number of alarming studies have pointed out that employers and managers, in practice, take too little account of people with a minority background or disability. I don't think we're going to get this through legislation alone. There must be changes in the attitudes of the individual employer. There are many small businesses in Norway, and many of them are completely unaware of the new provisions — but they are the ones that employ people. We therefore need to have campaigns aimed at employers who do not have large administrative departments and time to get involved in everything that comes from Stortinget – if we are to get more out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1013	It says attack is the best defense when you run out of good arguments. Government parties have demonstrated that tactic to the full today by constantly attacking the opposition. I accept this tactic, as there are unsocial cuts that government parties have to cover. But I demand that you use pure weapons, at least that the facts are not distorted. In the debate, representatives of the government parties have repeatedly argued that the Christian People's Party is cutting the labour market measures. We allocate more to targeted labour market measures in order to get more people with disabilities into work. So we're giving priority to those who need more extensive and long-lasting re-routing processes. So our total appropriation is 33 million. kr more than the government. I would like to encourage the government parties, and especially Lise Christoffersen, to look at page 29 of the setting, at the top of the page – where this is clearly shown. I also want to challenge her to answer where she finds this alleged reduction, and to document claims in the line change with me, that Christian People's Party cuts in the AFP system. Where did the representative come from? The Christian People's Party has given full support to the agreement on the pension reform and the guidance given on how to design a future AFP scheme in order not to break the main principles of the pension reform, that it should pay off to work. The representative of the Workers' Party should also ask questions to his government colleagues from the SV, who are actually opposed to the pension reform and who, a few weeks ago, made a national government opinion that raises doubts as to whether they really want to have an early retirement scheme that stimulates work. Debate is important, and often clarifying, but one cannot throw out statements that are not true. I want an explanation for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1023	I need to say a little about the anti-discrimination and accessibility law that the Government is now working on. It's important that we don't think it's just about working life. So it's all about society and how people can live their whole lives, sail if they have disabilities. It's important to bring it with you. I was a little surprised at the contribution of the representative of Kjønaas Kjos, where she claimed that someone had boasted so much about how this society was organized for the disabled. I've never heard anyone say that. On the contrary, Norwegian society is certainly good in terms of social welfare schemes and a number of social measures and aids – where I think we are well off with other countries we can compare with – but in terms of availability, I regret to say that Norway is very much behind. That's why it's important to get this in place, and make sure that everything we invest in the future is not that it discriminates against people. We need to use the large purchasing power that the public has to ensure that we get equal and non-discriminatory solutions. I also need to say that the report from Nordlandsforschung, on the attitudes of employers and NAVs towards people with disabilities, that you are not actually seen, that you are not actually getting relevant help to get a job is very important. But then it is all the more alarming that those who claim to be more concerned with this than the Government are cutting so violently both in the number of people who are going to help people back to work, help them in the meeting with the employment, employers and adaptation requirements, and in the means of action to which they are going, because we know that this is needed in relation to both qualification and training. Then I want to focus on some measures that we know someone is working on. One is an initiative called the Mushroom Project. It is a project that seeks cooperation with private employers, young people who fall out of school and work and who have social problems. So there is a package of both training and work training, and the trials carried out here have worked very well. So I encourage the government to look at how it can make sure that these good projects get started. In addition to that, I need to refer to the experiment that is now also being worked out between IT Norway and the labour market companies, linked to the use of modern mobile phone technologies in the reintroduction of particularly young people. It's proven to be effective. And I think there's a need to go some new ways if we're to succeed in getting everyone to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1036	The representative Eva Kristin Hansen was twice in his contribution to this that the Progress Party is proposing more effective within the Working and Welfare Session. Yes, the Progress Party believes that there is scope for measures to improve efficiency within this department. I just want to refer to what was in today's IT some time ago, about the phase-in of EDB systems. If you had waited until the pension reform was adopted, you would have been able to save 50 million. kr only in IT solutions. Read the Riksrevision report, Document No. 1 for 2007-2008, on page 38, on the annual accounts of the establishment last year, it is stated that ‘unexplained differences amounting to approximately 200 million. crowns’.» This must mean that this is a potential for efficiency. Then I want to say something about the purchase of healthcare, which I hope the government can take along, and for which I hope the Council of State will also work more specifically. There is no doubt that the purchase of good health services could lead to a faster return to work. I hope you can also become more open to exploit the rehabilitating capacity that exists. In this respect, I would like to refer to the LHL, which in several notes to the Committee has pointed out that they have 100 free beds. Why don't you take advantage of the 100 beds – providing some people with rehabilitation – when we know that of those who get rehabilitation in a short time, 70–90 pst. come back into a working situation, while those who do not receive rehabilitation will find themselves in a state of dissatisfaction? I hope that a much more focused policy will be pursued in this area. This is actually a very good example of how to bet on limiting the number of insured people. This has also been one of the government's taboos: fewer in social security and more in work. By taking such action, you will actually get more people back to a work situation, while a lot of people, by the fact that the government does not impose offensively enough on this and exploit the available capacity, unfortunately will be going on social security schemes, which I think is directly unfortunate for the people involved. And it's also unfortunate for society as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1052	I was challenged by the representative Woie Duesund to explain in more detail my response to the exchange of lines earlier in the debate – from which we have our information in terms of cuts in the alternative draft budget of the Christian People's Party. I'd like to do that. What was the main point of that reply was what also the representative Dagfinn Sundsbø had in one of his posts here today, namely that the Christian People's Party is funding a lot of its additions by moving money internally in the budget – from one post to another – and that there are often posts aimed at combating poverty. What I did was not go into all the positive proposals for the Christian People's Party, but what I tried to show was how the Christian People's Party is financing its additions. When the Christian People's Party adds to special labour market measures, they reduce the number of ordinary labour market measures. A smaller subsidy to the AFP has been proposed than that proposed by the Government Parties. There are restrictions on daily allowances, fishing industry, permitting and pay guarantee schemes. Money is also transferred from health and rehabilitation services for the sick and from the net pay scheme. This list is obtained by reviewing all the entries in the budget of the Christian People's Party. My main point was to show that we had our priority. We were so willing to say that many of the proposals to the Christian People's Party are good, but we did not agree with the way the Christian People's Party finances them. Then I hope that this is clarified. And of course, if there had been a fault somewhere on this list, we should make sure to correct it in a later article – and regret it if necessary. It is at least this list that we have drawn up, based on the Christian People's Party's own tables. When I first get up here and have little speaking time left, I would like to comment on what has been going on by a lot of people, namely the reduction that applies to return money in the waiting time for work, from six months to three months. It's a system that's been changed in several rounds. In the last period, it was changed from one year to six months – there was probably a thought behind that at the time. Now, when we propose to reduce the scheme from six months to three months, we believe it is sound, based on the statistics we have on how people who have finished a re-entry run are doing. 40 pst. is in some form of work after three months, 40 pst. are on some form of new social security benefits, and the rest are on a mixture of social assistance and private care. It is our sincere opinion that if you have not received a job three months after a return run, you should not continue to benefit from a passive benefit. Then a return to active measures or to another social security benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1069	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1086]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1085	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footage, see page 1098]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1101	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President proposes that members of the Government have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it will be suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1114	I will open this year's budget debate where I finished in December 2006. Some of my last words at the time were a sort of conclusion. Then I said, ‘My conclusion is that when we come into the same situation in 2007, the road standard will be as bad as at the end of 2006 but with some improvements, where local communities have been pressured by the Centre Party to pay sail, or have been subject to an additional tax.’ That was the end last year. I will not tell myself to any fortune-teller, for it was not so difficult to predict the outcome at that time. It is at least a reality that the infrastructure in December 2007 is just as bad as it was at the end of 2006, despite the fact that the current government through three budgets has itself claimed to have been historic in lifting the transport budgets. This is kind of interesting, because at least we haven't become any less rich in Norway. Now we're about to deal with the balancing issue. It shows that the corrected deficit for the Norwegian state is less than DKK 3 billion. That means you've actually got 45 billion more dollars, because you see it, as you could have used it. In such a situation, our infrastructure rots, both in terms of road and in terms of rail. I think that is a sad conclusion. But it is funny to conclude that even the Progress Party, which was so criticised for the 2007 budget, would have actually remained far within the 2007 budget rule of action – far inside! Even the Progress Party could have spent almost DKK 40 billion more in its alternative budget and still adhered to the action rule. That's very interesting. So by the end of 2007, our pension fund will pass NOK 2000 billion. The Progress Party, which is the only realistic cultural and environmental party in Stortinget, also promotes the only realistic environmental promise in the road sector and in the transport sector as a whole for 2008. We do that by increasing the budget envelope by SEK 1.9 billion – and by starting the construction of an infrastructure fund with a provision of NOK 60 billion, which will in the long term provide NOK 300 billion in provision. It will create certainty and predictability. We have not changed anything in particular about our main approach to the budget for transport. We are dealing with our primary proposal when dealing with the national transport plan. That means that we have NOK 7.5 billion more than the Government of Bondevik II proposed in the National Transport Plan, and as the Right, Left and Christian People's Party proposed in the National Transport Plan. We have done this by adding NOK 3 billion more to road investment in ordinary growth. We have added NOK 2 billion to the foreign budget – we want to import both machines and crews to build Norwegian infrastructure – and we have collected NOK 1.65 billion as the first year's return on an infrastructure fund of NOK 60 billion. The Fund gives the Advance Party the opportunity to raise 600 million. kr to railway infrastructure in 2008. It's $850 million worth of progress. SEK on investment and 650 million. kr on operation and maintenance on the railway, but we are thus dampening some of these cuts by using our infrastructure fund. Besides that, we're honest that we have less funding for the railways than the majority, the rest of the parties, have, and we're cutting 400 million. NOK for the purchase of passenger transport services. We see that we reduce the impact of this by requiring a significant increase in efficiency, among other things. through competition, which will generate 150 million. kr. We can also take a whole lot of unprofitable distances. The main task of the Progress Party is to increase the appropriations for road maintenance of the national road network by 900 million. kr, in order to reach the level that the State Road Service itself says is needed to maintain the standard – i.e. today’s standard – without any further deterioration. That means that if we're going to continue and keep the bad infrastructure we have today, it has to be 900 million. kr more. It says a little bit about how our infrastructure is. So to other conditions in our alternative budget. Of course, we cut into the department's operating expenses by 10 pst. It has to be possible to pick up something more efficient. We cut grants to international organisations with 20 million. NOK, but we want to evaluate it later. We'll make $6 million. kr in investigations into safety, the environment, etc. We'll cut 50 million. kr in transport research. We do that with a good conscience, because we refer to our overall increase in the research budget, which comes elsewhere. We also cut the 161 million. kr in special grants for public transport, as we see that the Government has changed in the direction of introducing those who are using the alcohol duty. It doesn't want any of that, so we're making our own model where we're using carrots in front of our big cities. We provide an allocation that goes towards our big cities getting a direct grant to strengthen public transport, which is positively charged, instead of what the government is doing: almost adding up to a reward scheme that says you won't get any of this if you don't punish your citizens through a fee. That's what you indirectly say. The Progress Party strengthens the Coastal Works and Traffic Centres, in particular on the equipment side. We're strengthening the entrance to Fedje and Mongstad. We're strengthening what's going on on oil protection equipment. We're strengthening funds for Safe Traffic, which we may have thought a total increase was interested in, but which they unfortunately don't have. And we have, unlike all the other games, let Avinor keep 50 pst. of the surplus, instead of 25 pst. We all know what challenges Avinor is facing. It is also important that they retain some of the funds they provide through the traffic they experience. When we know that the same money that Avinor is withdrawing is also going to be used to almost fund the rest of our airline structure, we think it's fair to do it that way. I record that the government in 2008 is increasing its lag, not only on the road, but also on the railway. I think that's interesting, given what the government went high on in terms of the 2007 budget, which was historic. I also know that today's debate may turn to the environment – at least it does not surprise me. Then it's interesting to see that the drivers are actually the ones that should have a very good conscience about the climate. At least they pay. Because if you count on today's petrol tax at the cost of emissions per. tonnes of CO2 from the cars, so Norwegian drivers pay NOK 1800 per car. tonnes. In spite of this, I note that the current government wants to increase the fees for Norwegian drivers – through a rush-time charge, tolls and petrol taxes. I just want to end by promoting the proposals that the Progress Party is behind in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1153	The representative Per Sandberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1158	The representative Sandberg began boasting that he would stay far within the rule of action also with his explosive use of money, but then it is interesting to note that the appointed government partner, Right, strongly criticizes the government for spending too much money. What I was going to ask about, is that the Progress Party is once again proposing to cancel all tolls in Norway. This would give a minus of SEK 4.9 billion in the state road service budget. The progress party is increasing by NOK 3.5 billion, so we would have a net loss of NOK 1.9 billion. I would assume that the representative's answer would be that this would be covered by the foreign budget, and that the representative would again assume that this would not affect the economy. Is it just coincidence that we've seen an explosive price increase on e.g. Apartments in areas like Hammerfest, where there have been mostly foreign workers?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1165	I must first be allowed to say that I thought I would answer yes or no, but it was completely impossible, because I did not understand the question. If the representative of Wickholm's question is about whether our budget will increase the pressure on the economy in terms of increased interest rates and increased exchange rates, I would just like to say that the Progress Party has been given quality assurance throughout its state budget through the Statistical Central Bureau. I registered that the government was not satisfied with the answers that came from there, so we took an extra round of quality assurance. And the figures coming from the Statistical Central Bureau showed that the pressure on the Norwegian economy would actually go down with the Advance Party's alternative budget. The interest rate would actually go down as well. So I don't think that Wickholm should interfere with the economic policy of the Progress Party, based on the social economic views of the Labour Party on that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1172	The Progress Party has long been against the Kyoto agreement, against taking action with our climate commitments. Over the last few years, people have become the most involved in greenhouse gas emissions, and now the Progress Party is also drifting and coming up with proposals that sometimes do something about greenhouse gas emissions. So there's progress. But in certain areas, the party doesn't want to be on the side of people most, considering what matters to the climate. One of these areas is the broad unity we now have on the Storting about betting on lightning trains. The representative has himself driven the Shinkansen in Japan, and was very pleased with it. But how are we to ensure that we reduce greenhouse gas emissions from air traffic, from increasing freight traffic and from increasing private car traffic, if we don't bet on lightning?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1182	I have to say that I was very pleased with that question. When the government itself has turned to hell as an environmental project, I also think Hallgeir Langeland will take it in. But it is starting to become quite so customary that SV either stands here and protests against himself or sits in the lawn outside the building and protests against himself. Lynzog is not an environmental project. But the Progress Party has had solutions, not just this year, but over decades, to provide better infrastructure to reduce emissions. SINTEF has confirmed what the Progress Party has said over decades: Good – or better – tribal pathways will significantly reduce emissions. If we also allow our railway today to be built up to good and normal standards – as the Progress Party puts up by moving some passengers across the road – but opens up too much more freight on the long distances and passenger traffic rates on trains in the dense areas as proposed by the Progress Party, it will bring significant environmental benefits. I would like to end by saying that the Progress Party has actually proposed measures, unlike the sitting government, which is just talking.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1191	The Progress Party has a high priority on transport, and they must also be commended for their reference to containment and priority of money in this area. The Christian People's Party will point out when it comes to the Advancement Party, is especially the relationship with public transport. The party of progress was with the sitting government parties when NTP was presented. At that time, there was a significantly higher investment on the track than the then government parties were willing to do. Now the representative Sandberg says in his post today that the Progress Party cuts on track in relation to what the government parties have presented. At the same time, he regrets the retreat. Isn't it true in this case, that the Progress Party here is accomplice in that we're now hanging considerably in relation to what was set up in the NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1198	Fortunately, both in 2007 and 2008 the alternative budget of the Progress Party is significantly higher than that of the Christian People's Party in the national transport plan. If you were to base the national transport plan on Bondevik, it would actually be even less for rail than the Progress Party proposes. In this way, Jan Sahl should have been satisfied with the fact that the Progress Party has pushed through a conciliation, and in its alternative budget is thus increasing more than the Christian People's Party did at that time. We in the Progress Party are also honest that we want a significant boost also in public transport, but we have a different kind of priority. That is why we have proposed to build an infrastructure fund, where we get predictable and secure financing of all sorts of infrastructure, and we have said that 20 pst. the return on this fund shall go to the railways and public transport. If the Christian People's Party or the other bourgeois parties had joined the Advance Party in building up such a fund, we would probably have managed quite quickly to get a future, modern and environmental both railway and road infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1206	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1209	One might say and mean what one wants, but this government has actually increased the appropriations for transportation. Of course, the opposition has more money for some items in this budget than the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left had when they themselves put in government. The party of progress was also a party of support for the Bondevik government. But now the opposition has a lot of money and a lot of good ideas. Of course, the working party is not satisfied, although we have granted NOK 4.5 billion more than Bondevik raised in 2005. We have great ambitions. Traffic is important in order to bring people closer together, and for businesses that depend on good roads to reach the market to which they supply goods. Some of these are road safety, school safety, environmental challenges and efficient transport for business, in order for society to function. This government wants to use the whole country, and that means that we need transport for everyone, no matter where people live. That is why good infrastructure is needed throughout the country. We need planes to get business and people to arrive quickly and efficiently. We need trains that go when it comes to, and above all we need good and traffic-proof roads and good ferry connections in our long-distance country. The train can take a lot of freight traffic, and it is a pleasure that freight traffic on the track has increased recently. That means that many of the trails can be replaced by goods at sea and not least on track. It is good for the environment and positive for road safety. Last year, the Ministry of Transport commissioned the Railway Agency to develop a strategic basis for creating an even better freight transport policy, both in the short and long term. The government has already strengthened freight transport. The level of investment has increased, the planning activity has increased, the electricity charge on trains has been removed and the exemption from the road tax has increased to 25 tonnes. And as if that were not enough, from 2008, we are now proposing to remove the fuel oil charge on train diesel. The sum of many good measures is that the railway has become more competitive and takes an increasing part of the freight. We're happy to take a little bit of the credit for that. A good strategy is mostly about crossing tracks, but not just that. In an overall capacity-enhancing strategy, it is important to see among others. development of terminal capacity, power supply and available locomotives and wagons in conjunction with track capacity. While during the previous period the honourable progress party helped to decide that 1 billion more were to be spent on the railways, in their alternative budgets they have proposed cutting approximately 2 billion kroner in relation to the government's increasingly offensive proposals over the last three years. In particular, the NSB is being disregarded in the draft budget of the Progress Party. Government purchases are proposed to be reduced by less than 500 million. kr, nearly half a billion dollars. Major parts of today's rail traffic had to be stopped immediately. Most likely, routes such as: The Northern Railway and the Røros Railway have been shut down. People should notice that. But it actually wouldn't have been enough either. Large route routes would be necessary on other routes, even in heavy traffic into and out of Oslo. Large fixed costs and difficult tradable materials mean that in practice it is not possible for the NSB to cut costs in such a one-year order. The proposals of the Progress Party are not realistic in this way. State as 100 pst. the NSB AS owner may not act as such. In relation to the national transport plan, we need to realise that we need a new big boost in transport. We need a more offensive transport policy than the current government parties and the Progress Party were given a majority in 2004. We need to increase road construction and maintenance efforts. We need to focus more on improving safety and, above all, on increasing the efforts of vulnerable road users. Our children are the future, and they must be secure school roads. We want to allocate 590 million today. kr for the construction of walking and cycling roads in relation to existing roads, an increase of 90 pst. The state contribution increases by 34 pst. We have to increase the effort on the railway. This concerns the development of rail in today's intercity areas and the increase of freight capacity. It was not possible to write comments on all important roads. Therefore I allow myself to become a little local. We're smart people in the interior. We don't shout out loud -- there's just a few of us doing. But we ask to be taken seriously when Hedmark and Uppland have pointed out the need for major transfers to tribal and other highways. It's bad that Hedmark and Uppland have to live with such dramatic accidents. Our two counties stand for over 10 pst. of traffic on the other national road network but only 4 pst. of the national measures. The dramatic accident rates in Hedmark and Uppland indicate that the distribution of other coercive measures needs to be assessed in particular in the future. Hedmark and Oppland have agreed to prioritize rv. 2, rv. 4, E6 and Rv. 16th@item: inlistbox In addition, when examining the national transport plan in 2004, the Workers' Party was given a majority in favour of a tripling of the framework to Rv. 35, stretch Evnaker-Olimb. Traffic is very high, and the accident risk is high, especially for the soft road users. I hope that the work on the route can get started soon. In the case of rv. 2, this one is going well – hurrah! But I assume that the department follows up with government appropriations, as foreseen in the project, and that progress is kept without too much delay. The E6 is a heavily trafficked road, and I am glad that the Minister of Transport has agreed to start the development of E6 in two sections, an extension that will start in a few days. I hope and believe the Government now ensures continuous expansion and ensures that the progress of the project is maintained. It's approaching Christmas, and then it's allowed to wish. I want the hinterland to also have to get its share of the gifts to be distributed. In Hedmark, we will underline the need for a review of the broad-based extension project. 3, Here the State Road Service has shown skill and creativity and gets a wider and safer rv. 3 for a cheap money, hopefully with the middle. The majority of the population want to give priority to the construction of middle parts on sections which are most at risk of meeting accidents. Experience with different types of middle parties is very positive and suggests that 70-80 pst. fatal accidents can be avoided on individual routes. We also focus on the middle parts of the setting. I do not believe in any way that the driver can be deprived of responsibility for his actions in the traffic. Human failure is part of the cause of most accidents, but we politicians and professional authorities have to do everything we can to ensure that the consequences of human error do not become so disastrous.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1249	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1252	I have here a notice from Telemarksavias on 10 February 2007, where it says that the government fraction at Stortinget has promised 30 million. DKK to E18 in Bamble in 2007 and another 50 million. kr in 2008. Former rapporteur Anne Blaker of the Workers' Party said that she was pleased that the Red-Green parties on the Stortinget had listened to the signals from the Action Group and have now found money, so that work could be started this year and not in 2009. Since then, a revised budget has been submitted and now a government budget for 2008, but no money has come to the current route. Is the Workers' Party satisfied with the fact that local representatives and depositors make false promises? Can this not help to increase the political debate? And how will the Workers' Party now ensure that this promise is followed up in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1261	I cannot, of course, stand here and be high and dark as the Progress Party can in this budget debate, because the Progress Party has an economic reality that no other party and the fewest economists can follow. Moreover, the Progress Party has never been in government. Of course, they have more money to go. But where does the Advancement Party take the money from? Yes, from the railroad! We do not want that. We do not want to take money from the community. We do not want to take money from the railway. We want both, but we recognize that we haven't come far enough. But this budget is in line with what we promised. Of course, we should want much more money locally – that's quite possible – but the truth is that in this budget we have prioritised as far as we came.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1268	I think it was a little special that the main speaker of the Workers' Party so unilaterally focused on Hedmark and Uppland, but I understand that. But more specifically, it is probably that there was some sort of tone in the post that was marked by the fact that the representative fell almost in opposition, and stood on the pulpit and asked to get what was on the wish list for Christmas. I thought the Workers' Party was driving the country, and that's why I'm a little surprised by that angle. In Stavanger Aftenblad today, the representative Gullvåg is outside and requires a government loan office to speed up road and train development. He says that he has broad support in the Workers' Party's large-scale group, and that the matter should be dealt with there after Christmas. Gullvåg further states that railway investments are most important, and he believes that the government parties ‘prioritise road ahead and are miles away from the transport policy promises of Soria-Moria’. When will the Stortinge get access to the Workers' Party and Goldvåg's thoughts, and support the representative Fallen the statement that the Government is «milewise» away from Soria Moria?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1277	Measured in the number of meters, I think we're miles away from it, but it's going in the right direction. Actually, it's moving forward. I think it's a little scary that all the good ideas, all the good money, are coming now. I don't know if it's especially for the Right that they need so long to think about, but it was strange then that none of the good ideas came while they themselves had the opportunity. The representative of Greece knows what it's like to sit in the government position. We've promised a lot. So if one said something in the national transport plan, we've lifted something. No one thought so. At that time, the then government parties voted against the slight lifting promised by the current government parties. We've done it, and we're following the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1282	Safety in the transport sector is something that all parties in Stortinget sign that all forces will be put in place to make the best possible use of. Now we know that in the 0–19 age group, we have a very bad death statistics in traffic in Norway. With the budget now presented, one actually expects, from the current government, that in 2008 we will have an increase in traffic fatalities in Norway. It's a sort of trend break compared to what's been in the past. At the same time, we can read from the budget that there is a significant backlog on the most important means of doing so, namely middles. I want to ask the representative Fallet whether she feels comfortable that we are going towards a year that is likely to show a significant increase in the number of fatalities in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1289	No, the government parties don't feel comfortable with that. We've also done what we can to increase the progress of this by midpoints. When projects cannot be carried out at the rate we want, and the representative Jan Sahl will certainly remember when I say that the cost of the projects increases by 30-40 pst. It is clear that then there will be less. But we're doing an increase in the further development of the midpoints, and we hope that this will lead to more and safer miles and miles on our roads. But I want to say that there is a very clear signal that it is the driver behind the steering wheel who also needs to be trained, so that we get drivers who tackle difficult driving, even on narrow roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1294	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1297	After half-life in this ageing period, there may be time for a little reflection. Has the situation on Norwegian roads improved? Is the railway on track? Has there been any progress in the development of public transport? Has everyone got broadband? Instead of answering myself, I would quote some combinations of myself, namely Hellbillies from Ål. They've come up with a new record of many thought-provoking songs for us here in the Transport and Communications Committee. The first song, "Hello Telenor", is about the fact that for many years author Arne Molagen had had a hard time getting broadband. After he wrote the song, there were not many days before Telenor had installed broadband. The company Telenor quickly turned around and provided a solution. The second song I want to quote from has the title "Six thousand Caves". Here's what it says: ‘From mountain to flatland there are silver-grey road bands with telahiv, wheel tracks and holes. Short years at the worse, that's true unfortunately. We collect the collection in a ring, but the Storting they do nothing. Breathe in hold you for here it goes tossing, from Hol and down tea eel, six thousand holes. This is road 7, but no one would believe it." The fact that Moschlagen and Hellbillies are given the same expedited service from Vegvesenet as from Telenor, there is no reason to believe. Not just rv. 7, but many Norwegian roads are in a wretched constitution, yes, even on our tribal roads it is very bad. According to the Vegvesen itself, only 5 pst. of the main roads, adequate standard, and 56 pst. does not have a usable standard. It is therefore right to bet on maintenance, but it is too slow and will be much climbing. In its alternative budget, the right has proposed to grant NOK 475000 more than that resulting from the Government's proposal. In addition, we have proposed a road fund of 20 billion kroner. The government promised the voters to keep what is in the national transport plan, but halfway over the major period, the government is almost 2 billion kroner behind it. When combining this with not compensating for the international price development of steel and concrete, and the Government’s refusal to increase the competitive outsourcing and alternative organisation and funding, the Right fears that the draft new NTP, now exposed to Christmas, will not be the necessary promise. We will underline the importance of better roads. Large distances and scattered settlements make Norway a nation dependent on good transport solutions. An efficient infrastructure is essential for companies in District Norway to be competitive. Today, it is a great challenge to ensure good mobility solutions for attracting labour, as well as a short distance from markets. Road construction is both a good rural policy and a good industrial policy. Better roads are also essential to move forward towards the vision of zero fatalities and permanent injuries in traffic. Unfortunately, we have to note that the positive trend in the number of road fatalities has turned upside down. In the last two years, the number of deaths has increased. This is very serious and needs to be met with concrete measures. In good times, we need to invest in the future to ensure tomorrow's well-being. Therefore, the right will increase the appropriations for investments in infrastructure, broken down by 300 million. NOK to road and SEK 170 million. kr for investments in the railway. The state share of road investment needs to be increased. We have proposed a road fund of DKK 20 billion to meet the challenges we face in the great aftermath of maintaining the highways. The road service itself has informed that it is needed approx. $800 million. kr extra each year to resume the retreat. Our road fund will provide a return of nearly $1 billion. This money is going to come to the top of the ordinary appropriations, and will help us to get rid of it in maybe 20 years and not have to spend 50-70 years to get up to date. We have focused on improving maintenance and ensuring safe and secure roads in our alternative budget. That's why we've given priority to increasing racial protection by 75 million. kr and additional addition to middlings of 50 mill. kr. We know that midwayers save lives. In the committee, we have had frequent contact with the No to Front Collisions organisation, which in an exemplary way has focused on the fact that about 100 of the fatalities in traffic are the result of frontal collisions. Midpoints may help to reduce this significantly. 70-80 pst. fatal accidents can be avoided in sections where middle-sections have been put in place. The right is proposing a new reward scheme for safer school roads, and we're going to grant 100 million. NOK for such a scheme. Today the responsibility for the roads, as everyone knows, is spread across the municipality, state and state. That is why we want a comprehensive and more offensive effort on safe school roads, and we propose a split-up team between state, state and municipality to get ahead of school roads. We'll put in place a little extra pot, a reward scheme like the one we know for collective action in the big cities, so that municipalities and counties who are good at giving money to secure school roads will be premiered for it. Government parties boast of how much they allow for transportation. Unfortunately, this gives little effect. Never, of course, has any government refused as much to carry out reforms in the field of transport as this government. The evaluation of OPS shows that the construction time is halved compared to other road projects. The price is roughly the same as in ordinary projects, which is due to the risk that the contractor has to take and that borrowing is made at market interest rates in private lending institutions. An overall opposition requests to continue with OPS and to request OPS assessed on a number of road sections, including the E18 Mossewegen, E6 Akershus, Hedmark and Uppland, E39 Coastal Highway Stord–Bergen, Rv. 7 Sokna–Örgenvika, E16 Bjørum–Skaret, rv. 3 Østerdalen, E18 Oslo-Asker and Saltenpakto 2, to name a few. The Government Parties' response is that the evaluation of OPS shall now be carried out in the revised budget. It is clear that there are internal stresses that keep the OPS assessment being postponed. What about doing as a staggering representative Steinar Gullvåg suggests in today's Stavanger Aftenblad, namely to set up a government loan office according to the model from Sweden, where you can borrow at the lowest interest rate? This combined with the OPS model would give a completely different impetus to major road projects. But I'm a pessimist, not one reform has this government presented. Then the representative was worried that we had ideas in opposition. But I want to show you what we did in position. In the last period, we set up a reward scheme for public transport, we put up competitive routes, the Gjøvik Railway, the freight traffic in the NSB was re-created by getting CargoNet, three OPS projects started, Mesta was separated as a separate company, Avinor became AS with powers to manage his own investments – the list is long. Now it's reform-dry. The first thing the government did was reverse the competitive outsourcing of parts of the railway system's services. Around Oslofjorden there has been a railway uprising in the Workers' Party and SV. The expectations were great for more to come from the government parties. We got three million. NOK to sleeping cars on the South Railway and SEK 10 million. for planning at the Railway Station. I have a great deal of understanding for the train insurgent Gullvåg, who in today's Stavanger AFTENblad notes that the Government 'is miles away from the transport policy promises of Soria-Moria'. The right has chosen to give the railway 170 million. kr in addition to the Government's draft budget. We think it was surprising that the Government proposed in its draft budget for 2008 to put a number of railway projects on hold. The fact that so far the positive investment within the railway is now stopping is not in line with the change we need to implement if we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other pollutants. The capacity of the railway has been detonated in many areas. This affects both freight and passenger traffic. We must bet more offensively. The right-hand side is suggesting $60 million. kr on Østfoldbanen. We're proposing $40 million. kr for start-up at Barkåker-Tønsberg on Vestfoldbanen – a project that the red-greens mentioned last year in the budget position as follows: ‘The majority are satisfied that sufficient means of planning are available for land use, planning adjustments and preparation so that the Barkåker-Tønsberg parcel can be ready for development by the end of 2007/2008.’ Is it strange there's going to be a train riot in Westfold? In the budget of the year, the distance is not mentioned in a single word. Lift failure becomes a mild word in such a context. The right-hand side is also going to be 20 million. kr to Flöen - Bergen station, and 50 mill. kr to a new crossing trail on Bergensbanen. We are pleased that the reward scheme for public transport is being extended to three new cities, but it seems incredibly disappointing not to expand the pot at the same time. So we've done $40 million. kr extra so that we can get speed on the collective investment. The right, Christian People's Party and the left point to a number of measures that can help improve the climate, while increasing the capacity of public transport. These are our demands in the climate negotiations that are ongoing in these days. A key requirement is the completion of the intercity triangle on the railway by 2020 and the extension of the reward mechanism. We also welcome the broad commitment of the Committee to further investigation in terms of high-speed rail. It is positive that so many now view this as a realistic and good alternative. 2007 has been a bad year for traffic, with Hanekleiv scandals, cancelled trains, fires and staff shortages. The government lacks will and courage to address the challenges. We are experiencing a stoppage of reform. Everything has to be at the old, even if it turns out it doesn't work. 2008 should be a better year. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1349	The representative of Trond Helleland has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1354	The representative Sandberg earlier stated that he did not understand the economic context of the signed questions. The right tends to have good business in economics, and unlike the Progress Party, which will spend $15 billion more of the oil money than the Government, the Right will spend $1.6 billion less. The right also understands well that provision for a road fund does not provide greater scope for action in the economy. At the same time, I think it's good to think that when the Right sat in government, and put budgets together with the Advance Party, they put up to spend $2 billion less than the current government does. I think that is reason to ask if Greece at all believes it is possible to agree with the Progress Party on an economic policy, and how would he have managed to close the holes to Hellbillies by 2.2 billion kroner less?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1361	I think one had gone quite far with 2.2 billion kroner on rv. 7, but the rest of the country would also have a couple of dollars. I think it's going to be possible to work together with several parties on an alternative course to the red-green government. We also see this in the draft budget for the year. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party agree on a series of structural proposals that go on OPS, which go on other ways of doing things. Among other things, the words are not private and competitive in our vocabulary. As for the financial investment, I would like to point out that the government of Stoltenberg II has received 130 billion more kroner at its disposal through increased tax revenues and increased access to funds from the oil fund. When the Storting adopted the guidelines for the oil fund in 2000, now called the State pension fund — abroad, it was said that one third of the return would go to infrastructure. Yes, if we had a third to infrastructure, we would have been in target with a lot of what we want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1370	Since there was a musical entry from the Right in the beginning, Hellbillies and Six Thousands of Hål, I had to make sure that our representative from Hallingdal got the text. And the text was good, he, with 6,000 holes. Then I thought, "Yes, I guess they didn't come in two years." It's probably sometimes that when they put in government, they could have close some of the holes, at least a few thousand – if not almost all. Because what's happened to this government is that we've started cleaning up those holes, and in fact, we're also getting the glory of the representative of Greece when it comes to Ramsrudhällingen at Rv. 7 above Henefoss. So we've actually started doing something. It's kind of strange that when you're out of government, you have money for everything. But that's clearly how it works – I haven't tried it before. My question is, is it possible to be for everything and not prioritizing anything? So one is for lynch trains, more for rail, more for tunnels and bridges and you name it. Right is for everything. Where are the priorities of the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1377	Of course, the priority is within the limits we have, and that's quite modestly 475 million. kr extra we have in the year's budget, plus the return of a fund of $20 billion, which would give one billion. What Hallgeir Langeland is right about is that the holes on Rv. 7 has not occurred during this period of government. If Hallgeir Langeland has the text in front of him, he can also read the next line, which I did not quote: 'He supplies me worse than in March 52!' [[Laughter]] It might be exaggerating a little bit, but there have been at least a lot of governments that have contributed to that rv. 7 and other roads have received inadequate maintenance. Actually, we can take a positive view of this and say that now there is a focus on maintenance. The Minister for Transport should be commended for the fact that the pressure is now in place. What becomes a cross of thought is that we can't get to everything. The roundabout of rv.7, as mentioned by the representative of Langeland, is the only state road project in this budget that has been fully financed by the State as a new initiative. So it's 6 kilometers away on rv. 7 which is the Government’s road effort in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1386	It might be interesting to find out if this was the case during the Bondevik II administration, which was after 2000, that one third of the oil money was used for transportation. But I do not think, in any case, when the representative of Greece is talking about cooperation with the Progress Party and that we agree on the structure, that we can free ourselves from the fact that the money must actually come from a place. And I guess that's where the disagreement lies. I also wondered whether the representative of Greece could respond to whether establishing a road fund would give more room for action in the economy, or whether it would only lead to the budget being sold out in a different way. In the end, it may also be worth noting a certain disagreement between the Right and the Advance Party as to how much private money is to be paid when they run through the toll. So exactly that question is not private an honorary word, at least not in the mouth of the Advancement Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1395	I think the Progress Party will have to answer for its policy, but our policy is very clear. We want to strengthen investment in infrastructure, because we view transport investment as investment. That's why I can be the first one to admit that we could do better in Bondevik II. We could do better in the previous budget. But I think it must be a little sad for the representative Wickholm, who is a dynamic and fresh new representative, only to stand in the Stortinget and only talk about the snow that fell last year, and talk about governments that were before this. He should rather stand up and boast of great results from his own government. But it might not be that much to brag about? It might be gone in bureaucracy, in increased costs, in a lack of willingness to think new? So as a fresh, dynamic representative, the representative of Wickholm should have put a little effort on the future rather than just talking about the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1400	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1403	I'm sure the representative Wickholm will come back to this in his post later. But it is possible to demonstrate vitality in forward-looking thinking even if one has passed 50 years. The right-hand side is not exactly the best represented, although they are very well out of government – with a large checkbook. Transport strongly contributes to increased greenhouse gas emissions. That focus is the decisive thing that we have when we discuss transport. My eg eg a.a. that the right-hand side fails when they do not prioritize in their budgets, but only say yes to everything, which SV itself was responsible for when we stood outside the government, but which is not at all correct, because at least we said clearly no to many impending road projects. It's very exciting times now. These are negotiations both at Bali and at the Stortinget on climate policy. I hope that the cooperation that is now hopeful will take place between the Right, the Left, the Christian People's Party and the government party on the Stortinget will improve our climate policy nationally, and I hope, of course, that our people in Bali will also help us get a good process forward towards a new climate agreement. It is also exciting at these times when the peace-price distribution is about to take place, that climate has actually won. It does something about climate when it has actually received a peace prize. If you look at this globally, it is clear that increasing greenhouse gas emissions means a lot to poor people, that means a lot to how the world will develop. I myself have been sitting on the Energy and Environment Committee for eight years and have been in despair about the Left, Right and Christian People's Party when they've been in position, because they don't have a serious climate, because they, for example, have. have built gas power stations on Snow White, which have become a scandal, which emits 1 million tonnes because they have not prioritised the railway, because they have not given priority to alternative fuels. So now, after they've been out of government for two years, there's a massive focus on climate from the opposition, on which they were not able to keep focus when they were in position. I think that one of the things that inspires political contempt – I know that when one is in position, one doesn't prioritize what one says is the most important thing when one comes out of position. But anyway, it's my message to the voters: Keep these parts out of position so that we who are in position and have the power to act do something. For we in this red-green government have lifted the railway bill, not enough, but we lift it, and we bet more on what can reduce greenhouse gas emissions. But we don't do enough. In my region, I am investing massively in, for example. building double tracks, we have built Ganddal freight terminal, we facilitate moving goods and people across from road to road – what everyone is about is important. The size now spent five million. kr on crossing tracks on the southern path to be able to move more goods from road to path. All of this is important to do something about greenhouse gas emissions. From the Transport and Communications Committee's side, we have therefore been almost in agreement, minus the Progress Party, so that we can move on with the lightning preparations, and we are also in the Committee some – the minus Progress Party, I believe – that we should get a real commitment to urban solutions in larger cities. Overall, with SV in position, there are many issues that come up that will help us reduce greenhouse gas emissions. There are some people that we should do, but this government can do it properly when we're in position. In the past, too, we have seen that this is often a spice layer. It's not like the Right – and especially the Advance Party – think that the state should take the bill, in any case it's the state that has the checkbook, even they can reduce taxes osb. It is important for me to convey that if you are going to get an important climate project in the counties and municipalities, you need to make it easier to contribute to fissile layers. The state cannot take the entire bill for everything. One must therefore – and I have been very clear about that in my own constituency – come with spice layer packages that lead to climate improvements if the state is to actively enter. My wish is that there will be a Stockholm trial in Norway. It seems to be sitting a bit inside, but it works at least for me to happen, for example. in my region. I think there's a need for a nap – it's a lost word, at least in the Department of Knowledge – I think there's a need for a pause of thought about investments in transport. I think that it looks at the price growth side, that prices are now increasing by approx. 40 pst. And more, let's stop building a lot of things. My advice is quite clear: what we must stop with now is what increases greenhouse gas emissions. It is in line with the superstructure that the Stortinget stands for: we must reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and then we must invest in transport. So do it! That's why I think the humpbone must mean that one now says stop major road projects, bombing projects, just to get a hump against price developments, but also hump against the fact that it actually seems that many projects are increasing greenhouse gas emissions. Then it's natural that one starts at it. The government has begun. One has kind of taken a break when it relates to Hardangerbrua and other projects, because one sees how this works. Then, in my opinion, once one has stopped the road project, one has to look at what one can give priority to in South and Middle Norway when it comes to railway projects. But not having any major road constructions in the south when it's like it's now in the entrepreneurial market, SV believes is tricked. So it's so that now the lightning train has to be taken very seriously in a completely different way. I've been working on it for 15 years, and I've been sent to psychiatric a couple of times 15 years ago – and someone thinks I belong there now too – because no one thought it was possible to realize any high-speed rail solutions in Norway. Now it's actually the way SV has been for 15 years, what Rogaland SV has been for 15 years, it's no The Greatness's plurality. We need to have a proper layout, a proper basis for making decisions that link up to a lightning train. I'm really happy about that. I mean, then, those who are in favour of this have to ask themselves a few questions: is it that a need for a new runway on Flesland? Is it such that a need for new bridges and paths in the vicinity of possible high-speed traversers? Is it such that one needs new Rogfast, Hardanger Bridges and Ryfast and a lot of road tunnels if one is to build lightning trains in South Norway and Middle Norway? My answer is that more than SV should think about this. I don't think one can expect a man to pay a lot of money for a road project, like Halleraker and Right would like to have in the West, if the cars disappeared and people took the train. It should be desirable for the Right actually to make sure that people take high-speed trains instead of driving cars and taking airplanes. Ole Brumm-thinking applies in the Right and, I believe, also in some party that has gone out of government. They have such a need to give something to everything, while they didn't give anything to anyone when they put in position, that they can't prioritize. So my particular challenge to the Right is, are they going to pick something or are they going to say yes to everything when we get the Quick Train? Do we need all the other stuff anyway? I thought it was important that more than SV discuss it. It is clear that we can also contribute by selecting that solution: reducing traffic accidents, reducing traffic noise, reducing asthma storage, reducing air pollution – ‘you name it’! A lot of work can be done with this lightning train. We've been in Japan and we've seen that this works well, so now we're going to have to start digging when we get a statement. There's a lot of things I haven't been into. I'm very pleased that we get this bet that we get on the railway, that we can get a little bit more on the Stortinget when it comes to building middle parts for road safety, that we can do a little bit more when it comes to fuel. Overall, much is being done, but we're going to have some challenges in the next year, among others. where it relates to price developments for different road projects, but also to price developments for e.g. national road ferries and the like.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1443	I interpret the representative of Langeland so that he speaks partly on behalf of the government fraction and partly on behalf of SV. I think it was very interesting what Langeland came up with on rest cuts. We've heard that from SV before. I take Langeland seriously when he now says that SV, and perhaps also the government fraction, wants to get a rest when it comes to major road projects. Now figures show that the number of job vacancies in the construction industry is only increasing. The next year, open capacity in the construction industry may be 20-30 pst. Then my simple question to Langeland is: Has he had a dialogue with LO about all of these in the construction industry that would have to go into the open queue from the fall of 2008, and all the tens of thousands who would be available during the rest cut for road construction, when Langeland gets a pass?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1453	I have to clarify that I am SV's spokesperson in transport, and that's in the position I stand here, but I'm not hiding that I'm happy with what the government does, as the representative Sandberg heard in my post. Now, the point of progress here is to ignore the fact that there has been a price development in the entrepreneurial sector that has almost led to a doubling of the prices of some projects, a mere ticking away and saying that people can be unemployed if we stop anything. It goes into the line of generally irresponsible behaviour of the Progress Party when it comes to economics, in my opinion. The party of progress should also be interested that we're actually doing things cheap, that we're making things reasonable. What is the intention of this proposal is that we should not abuse our money. We should make sure that they are used correctly and preferably as priorities for use within the railway. That's the starting point of SV when we suggest a skewer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1460	As Langeland said, he and I were on the Energy and Environment Committee in the previous period. A master document that was the state of the kingdom's environment. Last year we discussed this together, NOx emissions and measures to comply with the Gothenburg Protocol were important. The representative Langeland and SV followed the Bondevik government here. But now SV and Langeland are completely silent, almost invisible in these questions. Yesterday we got a break between the maritime sector and the government in the NOx negotiations. This sector has the largest emissions of NOx and wants to address them. The right, Christian People's Party and the left have a proposal in this budget to base a climate-friendly technology on all new national roads. We are responsible for this. It may be in the form of gas engines or catalysts. Why has SV changed its policy in this area since they no longer support it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1476	Now the representative Halleraker knows that SV and the Government have just got five new gas ferries up to go, so this is completely wrong. But that there's trouble with NOx, is despondent. That doesn't mean we're jumping on simple suggestions from the Right. That means we're going into this really badly and actually have met with maritime industries to see what we can do. But the objective and what we wrote about the state of the state of the state of the state when I joined Halleraker in the Committee on Energy and the Environment is firm. We shall implement and comply with the Gothenburg Protocol, as this is the case. That's our starting point. We're actually a little bit more pragmatic than the Halleraker is used to, for how we're going to get this. Confident!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1484	The representative of Langeland was strongly involved in environmental measures in the transport sector. It is also the Christian People's Party. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have put in a negotiating offer to the sitting government, asking for strong measures for public transport. We are anxiously waiting for the answer that might come today. When we look at the proposition of the sitting government, especially linked to the reward scheme for public transport, I don't think that Hallgeir Langeland has so much to boast about environmental investment. The scheme has been extended significantly, to several cities, but no more money has been put in. A simple calculation will then clearly show that more people are going to use the scheme, but they are going to get less money.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1491	Yes, I also said in my post that I hope that the climate negotiations at Stortinget will work well. Dive Party has submitted 15 proposals in the transport sector. I think all 15 suggestions are interesting, but many of the other 61 are of course interesting. But what they're into is Old Brumm, because one only says what one wants to give to people, one doesn't say what people have to do to themselves. I hope that this will be achieved through the negotiations. If you are going to have a reward scheme, should you put on a new one? Is it that one actually has to fix up collective fields and have them at the bottom to get the funds? That's what we're going to add up to. One can't just say: Here you have the money, do what you want! One actually needs to make a significant effort locally to get the money that these seven cities now have the ability to get. Then I have to say that with the Swedish government, we have got a completely different commitment to climate and rail than what the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right managed to do in government – yet they voted against increasing the rights when they were in position themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1500	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1503	Minister of Transport Navarsete shall be commended for presenting a budget with an economic framework as expected from the promises contained in the Soria Moria Declaration. But here is still a significant lag in relation to the national transport plan, and I hope that the minister and her staff will not again be indebted to the Bondevik II government during the day when this delay is to be explained. So to a trend in the budget for transport that is very worrying. This government has created great expectations for a Northern Territory operation, but unfortunately it is only the Foreign Minister who delivers the goods. The other ministers are absent, as is the Minister for Transport. I now agree to treat my eleventh transport budget, but I have never experienced such a weak North Region budget as this. That means that this government is moving means of transport from the north to the south at a time when a North Region bet has been promised. This happens at the same time that the government boasts that they spend more money on transportation than ever before. This can only be called a breach of promise. The Christian People's Party's transport policy is based on four main pillars: prosperity, accessibility, road safety and the environment. Transport is one of the greatest challenges for sustainable development in the world today. The environmental impacts of the transport sector contribute to high social costs and the energy consumption of the sector is high and increasing. In view of the major environmental challenges we face, it is important to stimulate new and environmentally friendly technologies in the transport sector. Norway has a special responsibility for implementing new technologies. Efforts on non-emission and climate-neutral fuels need to be intensified, and I hope the Government will meet important demands from the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left in the ongoing climate negotiations. It calls for the transport sector to contribute to emissions reductions of 4.2 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020, through a strong deployment of a competitive collective offer, phase-in of low-emission vehicles and increased use of environmentally friendly fuels. Better public transport and less car use in urban areas will improve both accessibility and air quality. The government adds to a real weakening of the reward scheme. In 2008, several cities will enter the scheme, and the Christian People’s Party will increase the funding for the reward scheme by 60 million. kr in our alternative budget. Disabled persons have the right to participate in society on an equal footing with other citizens. Too many today encounter obstacles in the form of poor organisation, physical barriers and man-made barriers. The transport sector is particularly facing major challenges in this area. The Christian People's Party is committed to the universal design and organisation requirement for all to count more than economic considerations and market requirements. The market cannot premise when and how quickly we are to achieve the universal design objective. The Red-Greens are trying to create a picture of the former government depriving the railway of priority, while the new government is doing a great deal on the railways. The truth is that the Stoltenberg II government continues to increase the railway appropriations that the Bondevik II government started. We're happy about that. During the Bondevik II administration, action was taken which has contributed to freight traffic, for example: on Bergensbanen, has increased by about 80 pst. in the course of four years. This is a development that is fully in line with the objectives of the national transport plan, both in terms of the environment and safety. If we are to move on, freight has to be given higher priority on the tracks, and we have to put in place more crossing tracks. It will also improve the regularity and capacity of passenger services. The Christian People's Party will also underline the importance of further investigation of high-speed rails. An important step on the road towards high speed on Bergensbanen is to make progress in the work on the Ringerik tunnel. The launch of the Gjøvik track has been a major success. The travellers have received a much better offer. The Christian People's Party will, on the basis of these good experiences, continue to compete with appropriate sections of the track. We are therefore proposing the roll-out of the Kongswingerbahn. In the case of regional aviation, the Christian People’s Party is concerned that the Government is following up the good intentions of the Nord-Troms and Finnmark bidding round and reduces the maximum prices by 20 pst, even when the rest of the regional network is going to tender in 2008. Security in the transport sector has the highest priority in the Christian People's Party – it seems to govern our priorities. Traffic deaths in the 0-19 age group are among the highest in Europe. It is important to look at the reasons for this, in order to take action. When the Government expects an increase in the number of injuries and killed in traffic for 2008, it is totally unacceptable for the Government not to resume the slowdown in relation to the action programme for the planning and construction of mid-driving plants. Centres are a very good tool for preventing meeting accidents. The Christian People's Party has 30 million. extra kr to the middle of our alternative budget. The rapidity of Norwegian roads is a major burden for the population in vulnerable areas. The breeds are more frequent and have become more unpredictable. A faster pace of securing is required, and not least a new mapping of raspberry areas. In the alternative draft budget of the Christian People's Party, we are proposing to increase the appropriations for the rehabilitating of the route by 75 million. kr in relation to the arrangements of the Government. Now the evaluation of OPS – with a positive result – is completed and is a completed stage. We are waiting for the first OPS project from Minister of Transport Navarsete. There is a long list of sandwiches, referred to by the Right, from the opposition parts in the setting, so it should be easy to find suitable distances. Per mille driving is one of the most important risk factors in road traffic in this country. About a third of all killed drivers have pro-mille in their blood. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee believes that alcohol can be an effective method of removing alcohol-induced drivers from public transport. I refer you to proposal No. 23 in the position, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, and expects the Minister of Transport to follow up the matter. The Christian People's Party is also concerned with a well-functioning offer on the national road ferries. The situation today is not satisfactory, and national road ferries are of great importance to the districts. Among other things, we must: ensure a reasonable opening time. We are therefore asking the Government to identify the need and explore the possibilities for extended opening time in some of the relevant national road sections. We refer in particular to the White Island, the Bokenafjord connection and the Vorøl–Ågskaret rv. 17, Coastal Road, in the municipality of Meløy. After the opening of Lofoten's continental connection, the Government Parties will press ahead with the Skutvik-Svolvær ferry link in 2008 with one daily take-off as a test scheme. But the need is considerably greater. If the sample scheme is to function as a sample, there must be at least two daily take-offs in the summer half-year. This has been proposed by an overall opposition. As a coastal resident, I am, of course, happy that an overall committee values the fast route and its importance for freight and passenger transport. But it doesn't just keep up with beautiful words, we need to secure the future of the fast route. Therefore, it is now very important that we have a realistic revised agreement that ensures that the fast route can safely extend the agreement period until 2012. While we're on the fast route: the presentation of this year's budget for transport became so far the darkest chapter in the old, proud fast-haul ship 'Finnmarken's history. In the worst case, the government may seem to throw the cards and withdraw entirely from the project. The high-speed route is an important local and national cultural building. It's too big a promise for local authorities to finance the Hurtigrutemuse alone. The Christian People's Party continues to believe that the state must be part of a shattering team of local and regional authorities. The Bondevik II Government granted 5 million. 2005 for immediate action while preparing a fully-fledged solution. The Christian People's Party assumes that no last word has been said in this matter. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs initiating a dialogue with the Rescue Company related to the company's role in the overall maritime safety work. There is currently a good drive in the Rescue Company and good opportunities for the positive impact of the cooperation between the public and a voluntary organisation – an excellent opportunity to put Volunteer Norway into practice. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposals where we are co-sponsors and which are already concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1550	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1553	Now the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will have back the stationary nightcars in Mo in Rana and the Mos Sea on the Northern Railway, i.e. the night and night offers. Then I would like to ask the representative Jan Sahl why the Bondevik II government had the opportunity to put the offer in its last budget, i.e. the 2006 budget. From where will the representative Jan Sahl pick up money, as we cannot see any increase in the chapter purchase of passenger transport by train? It might be very interesting to hear a little about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1558	It was probably not, as the representative Tor-Arne Stroem said, the government of Bondevik who put down this night and offer. The NSB wanted to change its entire concept of the night and reintroduced the wagons in a new way. They presented it to us at Stortinget as if this would be a better offer, and that it would increase the flow of the night train. I protested significantly at the time and strongly stressed that the night wagon offer with standing wagons in the Mo Sea, Mo in Rana and Kristiansand should be there. Of course, we are glad that the sitting government has listened to people in Kristiansand, found 3 million. kr and put the wagons in place in Kristiansand. What surprises me is that the representative Tor-Arne Stroem has not contributed to the fact that the same has happened both in the Mo in Rana and in the Mos Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1565	I'm very much in agreement with Jan Sahl in that racial protection, etc. shall have a stronger focus. I don't think the representative said that, but, as not least the government now points out, because of the climate pollution and the new problems that arise from it, it is even more important to have a strong focus on this. That, of course, will come back to the next budget. My question is related to climate. Now, of course, the representative cannot say anything in relation to negotiations and such things, but in the past, the Christian People's Party has been involved in formulations, among others. together with the Left, link up with the Stockholm trial, about the rush rate in Norway – and our positive attitude to it. The Christian People's Party and the transport fraction of the Christian People's Party are still positive in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, for example. through the Stockholm trial, in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1578	The Christian People's Party, as the representative Langeland stressed here, has focused heavily on the climate issue, and not only now, but we have also, as it was pointed out here, historically focused on it, considering that we are going to manage this globe in such a way that we can pass it on to the next generation in at least as good a condition as it was when we took it. It is then quite clear that we have major challenges in the transport sector, and then it is very exciting to see Stockholm. I myself had the pleasure of listening to a very exciting talk by former prime minister in Sweden, where he among other things. mentioned the Stockholm trial in strongly positive terms. Yes, the Christian People's Party is willing to look at the rush rate. And we're going to enter into real negotiations with the Government to bring down climate change emissions in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1587	I probably have to follow up a little in relation to the night and offer in Mo in Rana and Mosjøen, for the representative Jan Sahl fails to answer me the question of how to find the money to possibly establish that offer. That's the one. The second is that I hear the representative Jan Sahl saying that when the budget came for 2006, he was against it. But he did not get through in his own government to maintain the offer. The government at that time could actually have done something about it, but what you did was put out stumbling blocks for the government that came with the supplementary budget for 2006. So I am interested in how to get that money.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1594	As far as I can see, the sitting government and the government fraction of the Stortinget found up to $12 million. to strengthen the transport budget. Putting a night wagon in Kristiansand cost $3 million. kr. If we multiply it by 2, we have 6 million. kr as we are missing. There's a drop in the ocean at my discretion. The Christian People's Party will be involved in re-prioritizing and figuring out six million. kr to put these two night wagons in place and strengthen the night offer from Mo in Rana and Lake Mo, which is strongly longed for by people there. What surprises me is that at a time when the government is flagged high to secure the environment and also to have a North-Area bet, the three million use to put a night-car in place in Kristiansand. That's very good, but you're going to leave North Norway in the loop.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1601	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1604	As several of my great colleagues have said from this pulpit today, this red-green government has fulfilled promises and goals through increased performance. I am particularly pleased that one in this budget once again delivers something above the level of the national transport plan. Making good communication for the benefit of the whole country, so that the whole country can make use of it for the benefit of its citizens, requires investment. Then we have a challenge with the high prices that are in the market today. We have a challenge that today there may be a shortage of labour to carry out the Community's road construction tasks, more than a lack of capital that means that we can't take back any more of the past. I would like to add that we will continue to build the country. This requires investment. And that's good politics. Our country is demanding the construction of infrastructure, which applies to both roads, roads, aircraft, ferries, etc. We have a fjord and mountain landscape, there, for example. tunnels must be built and ferries must operate fjords. When it comes to the ferries, it is a special pleasure for the Central Party that the Government has both increased the permits to the state roads and strengthened the discounts for the major users. The allowances are more than met in relation to the level of the national transport plan. The ferry operation has a follow-up of 83.7 pst. by the action programme after three out of four years. The increase in the number of licences has been very useful in ensuring the discount arrangements for large users, as well as in resuming the increase in the oil price, but also in reducing the rate of rescheduling. It is good that the Government will ensure that the current route offer on the national road journeys is maintained, and also work at the same time for increasing capacity on a single route. I am particularly pleased that one will be particularly attentive to the challenges in More and Romesdal and in the Nordic countries, where one also has challenges with resitting. The NTP target of reducing re-sitting on pedigree road ferries is thus being addressed through the 2008 budget. I have also enjoyed good feedback from the municipality of Nordland, provided that their challenges have also been addressed. Good social policy is good business policy. Business activities in the north are a central part of the Northern Region strategy of the Republic. Both traditional industries and travel seemed to be an important driver of busses and economics in the region. As a new representative of the Stortinget from Seinhaustes, I must say that this has been a pleasant and a demanding experience for four weeks and before the seagoing time of four weeks as a spokesman in a municipality in the West. Then it's good to go home and find that communities appreciate the work done in the capital. Ensuring the progress of good transport projects that develop robust urban and labour market regions is well received across the country. These projects provide optimism and hope for the future. Such a project is e.g. Kvivswegen, this project which will provide users with a free route between Nordfjord and Søre Sunnmøre. It is therefore with great pleasure that one records that all the parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, are gathering on a note that says the Storting is positive that the toll company is advanceing 5 million. kr, so that work on the Kvivsvägen starts continuously after completion of the Eiksund link. This could provide cost-effective solutions for further planning. It's very positive. A lot of people are happy about this, and there would have been a lot of people who have been working for a long time on this important commercial project that the whole Stortinget now supports. For the government party, security and the environment are important for the priorities we pursue in infrastructure, transport and communication. In many areas of our country, yellow stripe is in the middle of the road something that you're working to realize just to increase road safety. Other places are the midway dividers that are important. Gangway and cycle paths are a betting area. A good goal is for more people to ride or go to work. It is also about security and the environment. For the Centre Party, Racial Protection is an area in which a particular attention will be paid. There are frequent studies that show that climate change could lead to an increase in the number of razed areas and that race could come more and more frequently. It is therefore positive that the Government, with the permission of 329 million. kr, has reached 75 pst. of the framework of the action programme after three out of four years. And then there's another $90 million. project government crowns and measures with a race-deficiency win. Taking one of the forecasts for external financing, the total value will be 520 million. kr for breed protection in 2008. In spite of this -- despite these promises -- it's the big and demanding task ahead of us. The centre party sees trafficking as an important tool to make use of the whole country. It is about better appearances in the districts and cities, it is about security, and it is about quality of life. Traffic is well-being for large and small groups and individuals. Firstly, improving the quality of life is important for business and for urban and rural settlements. It is important to have a transport network that ensures the good and safe emergence of food production on the market. Having a transport network that ensures good and environmentally friendly behaviour between home and work is important. At the same time, climate challenges are great. Transport is responsible for up to 1/3 of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. For this reason, it is necessary to achieve a conversion that leads to a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in transport patterns. Incentives to, by building walking and cycling roads, that several let the car benefit from being able to walk or cycle to work are one measure. Another important environmental measure is to enable more people to both benefit and benefit from public transport. But the most effective measure will probably be to get more of the transport across the sea and on the track. The centre party is therefore pleased that one in the 2008 budget for the first time in history more than fills up the framework of the national transport plan, both for road-related matters and not least for rail-related matters. One has added more resources to the core path, and these resources are used in such a way as to ensure a rational advancement of the already existing project. The government has made better use of freight transport. In total, the government has put in place measures for goods on the road for approximately 450 million. kr both in the 2007 and 2008 budget. The central party believes that this government does good and absolutely necessary work in terms of strengthening the area of trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1640	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1643	The representative of Kalland says in his statement – and I hear that there are more from the government parties who claim it time and time again, and so it was done again – which I almost ask for a documentation on: Where does Kalland have information and documentation from that government suggesting that the appropriations are over-exploited in relation to the national transport plan? No one else at Stortinget has received that kind of documentation, so I almost ask for it. In addition, I would like to challenge the representative on what was said earlier today by the representative of Langeland. He says there's got to be a rest cut here. Then is my challenge to the representative: does the representative agree that now we need to have a break and stop building roads, and concentrate on building railway instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1650	I'm happy with the last question. I'm not here for us to have a'sleep cut' in the investments – drool shears, which I'd like to say in good news. I certainly believe that we should develop the country, it is about taking the whole country into use and having good, robust construction and labour market regions. That's good central party policy, and that's what I'm doing here. When it comes to the second question, I am not going to provide any documentation about it here and now, but I am going to be so free that I can look it up and bring it back.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1657	The centre lot shall be in roses to have a strong search light in District Norway. It also has a Christian People's Party. There are issues about the distribution of funds; there are issues about facilitating people to live and enjoy well both in the city and in the districts. As I pointed out in my speech, I believe that there is a clear trend in the transport budgets that are now being presented, that the funds are being centralised to a much greater extent than in the past, and this time in particular has gone beyond North Norway. I can show that in the case of the E6, the main trajectory through the country, the appropriations at Trondheim stop. Two projects are being phased out, one in Steinkjer and one project to be completed south of Alta. That's all that's in the budget on the E6 north of Trondheim. Does the central party representative feel comfortable with such developments?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1662	The center party is probably the best known for being the district's party. I'm supposed to be, and I'm sure we are. We're focused on strengthening our districts. It is also a good urban policy to have strong districts. So we've seen a stronger centralization over a long time. What I can guarantee is that the center party is the guarantor to counteract the centralization that one sees in all areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1668	The representative completes his own government. I expect her to have some good news about the Freifjord tunnel. That was the case after the previous budgetary procedure. Then there was a large local notice that the matter was now settled. Since that time nothing has happened. Is the representative satisfied with this, and if she is not, what progress does she have?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1673	I can't say I'm happy with something if things have stopped. I have to ask that someone respect that I am new in this – I have been in this position for four to five weeks and therefore do not have a full overview of everything. But I'm going to do my part to contribute to the project that has been started, so it should be possible to continue working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1678	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1681	The left has given priority to environmentally friendly transport in its alternative state budget, and proposed an increase of SEK 1.2 billion more than the Government. The left has a main focus in four areas of transport: public transport, rail, road safety and research on environmentally friendly transport. The reason for this priority is the importance of efficient business transport, country-wide settlement and an environmentally friendly transport system. The left will point out that the transport sector must take its share of responsibility for reducing national greenhouse gas emissions, so the main priority of the transport policy is therefore to intensify the development of a competitive infrastructure for environmentally friendly and resource-efficient freight and passenger transport. We therefore welcome the fact that the Government has chosen to continue its work on assessing the potential for high-speed trains in Norway, but it is urgent to have a concrete plan on how to set up and finance this initiative. However, while waiting for the development of high-speed trains, we need to look at what important measures we can take in the short term to facilitate future high-speed infrastructure, namely the development of the intercity triangle with double tracks. I wonder that no more are willing to channel all the railway will that has recently arisen in this room to do something in the short term – while waiting for high-speed trains. The intercity triangle is an action that can address transport problems in the short term. The Government is failing in this respect. Lack of funds for the double track to Ski on the very important Eastfold course is an example of this. In its alternative budget, the Left has increased the appropriations for investment in rail by 670 million. NOK, but this was unfortunately voted down. The government has promised to increase efforts on public transport and environmentally friendly transport. Entrepreneurship in and around our big cities is important for business throughout the country. However, in the draft State budget, the Government is adding to a weakening of the public transport reward scheme by integrating several urban areas into the scheme without increasing the allocation accordingly. This is with respect to notifying the watering down of a well-functioning system that stimulates more public transport and less urban driving. The reward system has had and has many positive effects. It got the important Kolsåssbanen in Bærum on rails again by encouraging Oslo and Akershus to cooperate, a cooperation that is crucial to reducing car traffic towards the capital. In Oslo, among other things, received rolling pavement and real-time information. These are concrete measures that contribute to the collective movement of more people. Reducing and diluting the reward scheme is a step in the wrong direction and does not contribute to the necessary efforts to meet the urban environmental and accessibility challenges. The government here openly demonstrates that it has not understood the traffic and environmental challenges facing cities. It makes me genuinely sad on behalf of the environment and on behalf of everyone who works for more and better public transport. Our task is to make it more attractive to choose collectively in cities. The government’s betrayal of the reward scheme can quickly lead to the opposite: more car use and less bus, track, trains and trams. The left therefore proposes to increase efforts on competitive public transport in urban areas and to allocate 160 million. kr more than the Government of the Reward Scheme. Another important collective action is Oslopackak 3. I look forward to the work on this historic initiative and getting this cross-political package through in the Storting, but at the same time I am concerned that the fragile local consensus could be broken by doubts about important projects, such as the E18 in the tunnel, while the population in the western region is being charged with an additional toll collection. Toll collection is also expected to go as desired locally, through a separate company, which will mean less red tape, simpler cash flow and efficient use of funds. The left will point to the need to develop and facilitate more environmentally friendly road traffic. It is particularly important to use new and environmentally friendly technologies and more environmentally friendly fuels. The Bondevik II Government regularly escalated the appropriations for research, development and demonstration in hydrogen and biofuels. In its alternative state budget, the Left proposed to increase the appropriations for the purpose by 20 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. For the Left, it is important to maintain a high standard of road safety and accessibility in urban and rural areas. It is necessary to intensify work on physical separations and racial protection on the national and tribal road network in order to achieve the objective of zero damage and killing in traffic. The government is lagging behind in the commitment to road safety. It's disappointing. Several kilometres of physical pitfalls are simple measures that can save many lives. I notice that the government is adjusting the estimate for damage and death, which is the same as expecting an increase in the number of injuries and killed in traffic for 2008. The fact that this is written in plain text is alarming. Here it seems almost as if the Government has given up the zero vision, and in the Left's view it will be completely the wrong way to go. I want to refer to the Left's Alternative State Budget where the Left proposes to allocate 50 million. kr for the construction of physical middle parts in addition to the Government's proposals. I would also like to stress the importance of the development of transport corridors and I am pleased with the good cooperation, which leads to the Kviv road, which was in the middle of the previous speech, now seems to be getting faster than the fear. I have been informed that the first public mention of this road was in 1919, and then there was also a thought about the railway on this route. So people were visionary at that time as well. In the 1970s, the then major representative Paul Svarstad was a central driver of the Kvivsvegen and viewed it as a natural extension and strengthening of the Strynefjellsvegen. The left is alone about race protection to the Strynefeljell road, but I expect that more people will see the need for race protection and quarrying of the tunnels now when the Kviv road is realized. Open, secure and secure transport corridors are important, and therefore Left has proposed increasing racial protection efforts by 50 million. kr in addition to the Government's proposal. Finally, the transport sector faces major and exciting challenges, and at a time when tax access is greater than ever, we have the opportunity to take important, forward-looking and environmentally sound action. It does so in its alternative state budget by investing in public transport, rail, road safety and research on environmentally friendly transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1715	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1718	The left voted against spending SEK 2.2 billion more per year. years on a journey with Skogsholm from the Left as Minister for Transport. The government is currently implementing a plan that the Left does not support. So the left performs to criticise that there is no more bet. The right and Christian People's Party will spend significantly less money than the left in the setting we're dealing with today. Who, then, will the Left lean on? Sponheim has said that the government should have spent less money to cool down the economy. Then there's only one game left. I would like to ask Borghild Tenden whether the Left on the Stortinget will be an active support party for the Advance Party for a model from Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1723	First I want to say that now I have been sitting two and a half years in this room, and it is no surprise that the representative starts by referring back to the Bondevik II administration. It's been done for two and a half years now, and I'm surprised you don't look forward. Now you have a unique chance to spend money, for example. traffic, because the tax intake is so high, and because oil revenue is increasing. What about the Soria Moria statement? Why don't you look forward to your own promises instead of looking back and at the Bondevik II government? So to the second question, what happens locally, doesn't affect us centrally. The left in Oslo has affected the city council. They have had lower collective rates, and the Left has influenced the Progress Party in Oslo in a very environmentally friendly direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1730	Now SV has two years of government experience, and we don't have the experience that Left already has. That's why it's reasonable to ask the left, what it feels like, as they say on television. How do you feel now, since two and a half years ago you said no to everything you say yes to, with the checkbook that you now have, which you had not then put in government and could really do anything? How do you think the voters look at the Left when they change their identity so quickly? That was the one question. The second question is: Left is a big game, with lots of meanings. I have the impression that the liberalist wing in the Left on transport is very large, and it goes beyond the environment. If there is something left to bet hard on before transport, it is to increase air traffic through reduced charges and more aerodrome facilitation. Is it in keeping with an offensive environmental policy to be so positive about increased air traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1737	The first question went on the voters and the left. I think the voters are actually very satisfied with the efforts that the Left is making, and also with what we did in the Bondevik II government. We made a good decision after sitting in two governments. And then we'll see if SV is able to do the same genera that left hand did. We have a huge influx and many new members, so the Left is progressing. We also look at the polls. You know what -- I'm absolutely sure Hallgeir Langeland could have voted in favour of Left's alternative budget. I don't know if he was in the hall when I mentioned the priorities we have, which go on public transport, rail and research on environmentally friendly transport. This is in the middle of SV's heart. You should actually vote in favour of our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1744	On the plane?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1749	I understand the representative's enthusiasm for his own budget, but when she challenges us to look forward instead of looking back, the dilemma for the Left will be how to obtain such a budget in relation to the partners who have totally rejected that kind of movement effort. But my problem is the call the representative Tenden had on the Eastfold Railway. I am one of those who also regret that you have not been able to do so, but that is, among other things, that. justified by the strong cost growth that has taken place and the willingness to complete the Sandvika-Asker route first. There's a massive bet now, which means we're completing four tracks at a completely different time from what the previous government would have contributed to. I believe that the representative tends to have postponed the completion of that project in order to move investment to other projects, or she believes it is right, as you have done, that you are betting on completing a stretch that means so much, among other things. for the constituency represented by the representative Tenden?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1759	It is quite clear that it is right to continue the massive bet on the double track between Lysaker and Asker. The reason for this is that the E18 in the western region is the most traffic-laden route in all of Norway, so it's clear that it's right. But then I sincerely believe that we should be able to afford to also bet on the Eastfold Railway and the double track between Ski and Oslo, because it also affects the route in the West Region. Trains delayed on Eastfold are also delayed in the western region. It's connected. That is why we should continue to invest. It's a natural consequence of betting in the western region.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1764	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1767	It is interesting to be Minister of Transport in a government that shows that it is investing in trade not only in words but also in action, and that for the second year in a row more than fulfills its decision by managing the national transport plan. This applies to the total budget for both the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency, and it is historic. This government is the first one that any year has managed to fulfill the framework of the transport plan for both road and rail. The total number of roads and runways in 2007 and 2008 is about 300 million. kr above the level of the transport plan. If we take from a continuation of the 2006 budget proposal from the Bondevik II government, the red-green government has increased the path and path by less than $6 billion compared to the previous government. This is going to get the government because we don't go on with tax havens to further growth in the private sector at the expense of the public budget. Due to the high activity in the Norwegian economy in the last few years, it has been necessary to draw up a 2008 government budget adapted to such a pressure. The construction industry is one of the sectors that has had very high activity in recent years. In the transport sector, we now see the back of the medal in terms of cost figures for infrastructure projects, which means that the state gets less for each krona. So I'm asking myself a little question about much higher road costs and path costs from the opposition on the Stortinget right now, also because the permits to both road and rail are now much higher than under the Bondevik II government. In that light, the proposal is an overall opposition to the launch of the OPS project, especially. A quick estimate shows that the cost will be about $51 billion. It corresponds to an annual commitment of approximately SEK 5 billion for 25 years in the future – and not one project is north of South-Trandelag, cf. Sahl's concern about the lack of investment in the north. Climate change due to human activity is probably one of our greatest challenges. The government will pursue a policy that addresses the major climate challenges both nationally and globally. The transport sector is one of the worst sectors in terms of harmful emissions. In 2007 the government announced the car charges to launch low-emission car types. The conversion has resulted in a strong drop in average emissions from new cars, from 178 g/km in 2006 to approx. 160 g/km so far in 2007. The government budget for 2008 includes: in the case of a requirement of at least 2 pst. the conversion of biofuels, the increase of the CO2 charge on domestic aviation and the increase of the charge on automotive diesel. The permits for research into environmentally friendly transport technologies have been proposed to increase by nearly one-third. A total of approximately EUR 11 billion has been allocated to measures for public transport in 2008. The change of government has meant a change of pace even when it relates to the environmental performance of the trade policy. In addition to the concrete measures already in place, further action is systematically being taken. I would particularly like to mention that the government has seen the removal of a private body, Transnova, which is alerting in the climate message. The purpose of this is to see whether information can be disseminated in a reasonable way and to support efficient and predictable projects that can promote environmentally friendly transport solutions that are not now triggered due to a lack of capital or structural barriers. Increased transport of people and goods by rail is good for both safety and the environment. With this government, the Railway Agency has received a budget for 2008 at a historically high level. The government will still keep a full press on the railway projects that have already been launched, so that they can be implemented as quickly as possible to the satisfaction of people and businesses. One must expect increased efforts to prevent race and flooding in the future. An increased risk of race and flooding is also a negative outcome of climate change. The government has fulfilled the framework of the National Road Transport Plan for Racial Protection and will continue to have a strong focus in this area. There is a new agenda in aviation policy after the country got a red-green government. The former government proposed the closure of scheduled services at two airports, Narvik and Fenres, and put an additional stop to it. The red-green parties were able to stop this by raising the need for regional development, and continue in government by cutting the maximum prices in Nord-Troms and Finnmark. This seems to have created awakening on the civilian side. There is one saying when the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left express their political will to support the Government in maintaining the airport structure. When the same parties now, without giving any room in the budget for it, will enter three non-state airports in Avinor without further ado, I need to remember the important connection between life and learning, and that the government party is emphasising to promote the same transport policy if we are in opposition or position. As a rule, the party of progress has a different economic situation from that of the other parties on the Stortinget. The budgetary creativity of the Progress Party, with its own foreign budget and infrastructure funds in addition to its ordinary promises, does not change the economic challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1793	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1796	I registered that the Council of State got to talk about the Progress Party overtime. It is important to mention the Progress Party and not the failure of the Centre Party's transport policy. I have a question, but I'm a little unsure whether it's for the Council of State or for the Vice President of the Center Party. The Central Party government has adopted something very well. It's that you want a loan scheme for county councils, so they can improve their county road network. On the Central Party government, Vice President Navarsete was a strong contributor to its adoption. So my question to the Council of State Navarsete is: Does the Council of Ministers of Navarsete agree with Vice-President Navarsete of the Central Party that the Government must submit proposals for a loan scheme, as the Progress Party has proposed in Stortinget twice before, so that county councils can obtain cheap loans, i.e. interest-free loans, to repair our county roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1803	Councillor Navarsete is always in agreement with Vice-Chair Navarsete, and therefore the Council of State is working in government to find if possible a solution as mentioned. Both Vice President Navarsete and Councillor Navarsete are exceptionally pleased that we are in a government that prioritises traffic, unlike other Vice Presidents, who are not in a government that prioritizes such efforts, but who in the opposition are very much in favour of a policy which, although there are many good intentions there, must be characterised as totally irresponsible. And of course, one might wonder where one will find multiples for that policy, when looking at the setting, where the Progress Party goes in to increase the budget by NOK 15 billion, while the Right will reduce the budget by DKK 1.6 billion. So it's a little bit far until the next leader of the Progress Party can titulate himself as one who has a government council to communicate with within a private party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1808	Governments use every opportunity to boast and compare today's government with the Bondevik II government in terms of the movement rate. But she forgets every single time to mention that the assumptions were completely different then, with an economy of illegitimate. So now we see that the tax revenue has increased because we're able to clean up, and we also have the State pension fund – abroad that we can use. But then we see that there's growing disagreement in the government. Today we have heard that the government party SV will have rest in the transport licenses, and in today's Stavanger Evening magazine we see that the leading working party politician Steinar Gullvåg is impatient after getting new arrangements. He believes that ‘the ministry hangs again in old patterns of thought’ when it comes to moving forward. We agree with the Right Heart – I'll say a little about it in my next post. What is the opinion of the Council of State on these opinions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1815	This government, in which I'm proud to be in, is the first government to have given priority to business at a time of recession. I note that members of the previous government parties have expressed themselves as if we now have a much simpler problem issue. That's not true. We want to keep track of the economy. We see pressure on interest rates. We have an enormous pressure, not least in the construction market, which makes it difficult to collect as much money as a government council in the Ministry of Transport would like. But we're going to follow what we promised. We meet the national transport plan, and not just the national transport plan: we overfill the overall framework of the national transport plan, and I am proud of that. When it comes to project financing, which has been mentioned in Stavanger Aftenblad, it is a matter that the Government is working on. I don't want to criticize my colleagues in the Ministry of Finance for hanging out. But it is the Ministry of Finance that has the primary responsibility for the budgetary system, and we have a good dialogue with, of course, in the preparation of such matters in the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1822	Let me just first clarify a little misunderstanding in the post of the Minister of Transport, where it was claimed that there were no projects north of Trondheim that were proposed as OPS projects. I would like to remind you that the Salt Package 2 was there, and is one of the projects that we wanted to be included. I also noticed that the minister did not contradict my presentation of where the money is going at the moment, and I expect that we agree on that and can reverse that trend. So to traffic safety, and I'll say it like this: this is historic. It blows an alkolock wind over the Storting nowadays, and it is the Christian People's Party incredibly happy. A lot of people are working on road safety, who are happy about it. There is also a proposal here. I understand very well that the government parties will not participate in the proposal in relation to the Government. But I assume that we can assume that the minister will follow up on the common comment that is there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1829	First, I'm sorry. I simply had a list of economic estimates, and there was clearly no Salten package with it. That just means that there's 5 billion dollars in bonds per cent. 25 years. It's probably going to be an even larger sum. In that case, it shows that there might not be that much space for other projects in other parts of the country. When it comes to the distribution of funds between north and south, we follow the action programme developed by the previous government. I should like, as I have said earlier to the representative Sahl, to know that there had been several projects prioritizing into that action programme, but it was agreed in the previous big deal, before my time. So I can't do so much with it, except to follow it up, as we do. When it comes to alcohol, we will of course follow up on what comes from Stortingen – what we always do. I thought it was an interesting discussion and should not speculate in why Storting has been so busy with it. I'll take it seriously. We see that the unclosed path, and we see that several are running the intoxication – ergo is alcolock definitely an interesting theme to discuss.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1844	In the Easternblad, it is stated that the Railway Agency has taken out the double-track Ski–Oslo from the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. In a previous look in the same newspaper, political leadership in the Ministry of Transport says that once funds have been allocated to it, the double-track will be built fast. As Akershus' representative, I am very interested to know when this important route will start. Can the state council calm down the commuters in Follo and say that the double track will not be taken out of the upcoming NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1851	I can neither worry nor worry about what is coming in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. Work from my offices will be presented to me as a basis for prioritisation. It's ETA's work. The Government's proposals are not coming. Obviously, there have been leaks from the scene in the newspapers about what's coming and what's not. I'm waiting for them to be delivered during January. We're following the progress plan that the ministry has set up for the NTP. I cannot comment on it at this time in any way. I can only say that the ambitions we have to expand the intercity connection are, of course, established. There are major challenges associated with this. Earlier in the debate, there has been talk of cost-cutting on the road. It is clear that we have at least the same cost figures on expensive railway projects. It's challenging, even with the extended frames this government has put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1860	Let me first comment on the previous line. When the council is so eager to talk about other parties and other vice-presidents, I don't know who she's aiming at. If it was signed, the undersigned shall not be Vice-Chairman, but Vice-Chairman. Then the council is informed about it in the next round when she's going to talk about other parties and other vice-presidents. It's important. I hear the Central Party Council is very pleased, and so are the Central Party representatives. But outside of central party people you are not very satisfied, if then the council is not satisfied that every time you drive in return on highway 7, you shout: Navarsette! My question is, then, in relation to what is so very pleased here – it may be that the Stortinget, and the Progress Party, have lost some data or facts: Is it the case that the Government has now over-achieved the road objectives and that there is no delay in the existing national transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1872	I will later mark the use of the title ‘President’ and regret, of course, that I expressed myself incorrectly. If one calls at Navarsete when one runs Route 7, I'll check. I run there just as it is even home to the West, and have not been called yet. But it's interesting if you do it – one will at least be reminded that there is someone in this country who is trying to work for highway 7 and elsewhere in this country to get a better standard. In the case of late payments, the overall difference against NTP in the 2008 budget is overfilling 124 million. NOK 67 million on the road. kr on the railway. Measured against implementation over the entire NTP period, we have a lag of 43 million. kr on the road, which was what was requested from the 2006 budget – which we have then not taken again on the entire frame. It is important to stress that there is a transfer here that the representative will probably come back to, from investment to operation, which I have also received in this room today because we have done, thus strengthening the maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1881	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1884	Coast Norway is important to the whole country. Coast Norway creates values that benefit the whole country. I want to convey with this that we need each other here in Norway to build on the social democratic welfare society that makes it possible to do business and live throughout the country. Roads, railways, aircraft, ferries, speedboats, etc. are important. This is what gives our country such diversity. But it costs money, and then it's about prioritizing. Sea safety, ports, fairways, oil protection are, among other things, key elements of national transport policy. In particular, I would like to point to the need for safe transport along the coast, with better labelling and maintenance of fairways and the development of new, modern navigation systems. I am very pleased that the government has just highlighted this. It is politically important to get more of the freight on board, not just from road to rail. Well-developed and efficient transport networks are essential for business, value added and employment throughout the country. It is therefore of great importance that ports should be developed as an appropriate hub in the connecting transport corridors and as a link to the international transport network. An overall committee suggests that increased activities in the northern regions, both Norwegian and Russian, provide new and, on the one hand, significant challenges in maritime safety and oil protection. That is why it is good that the Ministry has taken action and is considering further measures to strengthen maritime safety and preparedness in the northern part of the country, and I would like to stress the importance of establishing a good dialogue with the Russian authorities. It is necessary for Norway to participate actively in the international work on maritime transport. As I said instead, it's important to have a safe and safe coast. This is good for maritime transport, and it is important to avoid loss of life or other events that cause oil spills, environmental damage and, in particular, loss of life. The 2008 budget represents a real increase of 105 million. kr to increased State investment in fishing ports and ferries, so that total appropriations for next year are more than 341 million. kr. I would like to point out that the fisheries-dependent municipalities are dependent on good port conditions, such as: Gryllefjord port in Troms, Gjerdsvika in Sande in More and Romesdal and Stamsund port in Northernland, to name a few. I would like to mention in particular the Stamsund port, where it is announced from the government parties that one will come back to the issue of remediation if the trawler company that supplies raw material to the fishing industry decides to invest in new and larger trawlers than today, and that this worsens the access to the fishing facility. The government parties believe that this provides a basis for completing the planning of the action, and we want a good progress in the matter. Similarly, it is very good that the work on improving the fairways is reinforced. In particular, I would like to mention the Brevik current in Telemark, where there is a lot of traffic of ships entering the industrial plants in Porsgrund and Bamble, with some very dangerous cargo on board. It means a lot to all the people who live at the Brevik stream, that this has become certain. That's $25 million. kr for the strengthening and renewal of equipment in the State Oil Guard Potentials. This is also a step in the right direction. Norway is a ferry country, and we have many challenges related to ferry operations, especially in Mora and Romesdal and in Northern Ireland. As an example, following the opening of Lofast, the county council has asked for a test run for the Svolvær-Skutvik link to gain experience on how the traffic flow changes after the opening of the Lofast mainland link. The Government Parties therefore wish to continue their operational arrangements for Svolvær-Skutvik in 2008, with a daily take-off coordinated with the Svolvær-Skrov offer. In this arrangement, Skrova shall be given priority in the event of a cadastral formation. The condition for this is that it takes place within the framework of the available resources in the area. An ongoing evaluation must be carried out during the trial period to allow the Government to come back with reassessment once the experience from traffic movements has been surveyed for 2008. There has been a lot of local efforts to establish summer operations on the Senja ferries, and I want to underline the importance of that connection. So finally, I'm of the clear opinion that the Stoltenberg II government emphasizes Coast-Norway much stronger than what the Bondevik II government did, or was in the vicinity of. This is of great importance to all those people who every day depend on safe access and who sit at home waiting for those who will come back. Finally, I would also like to thank the Minister for the work he has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1914	First, I want to take my picture here again, because I record that the main figure from the Workers' Party would not answer the question of whether you would fulfill the promises you made in February, both for 2007 and 2008, and how you would have intended to fulfill them. I got a very poor answer to my questions from the Labour Party's main figure today. This government is trying on every occasion to point out that this is a government that pays on the railways and that it meets the requirements of the national transport plan. But that's not true of the facts, because that's how far there's more than NOK 1.1 billion in subsidies on the railways after the first two years of the planning period. I don't intend to dwell so much on these facts. But it would have been good if the position for once could actually admit that they have not followed the national rail transport plan. The Progress Party has been so far accused of cutting by rail in this debate. I want to take it right away. Yes, it is, and this is because the majority in this Chamber, with the government parties in the front, have voted against the proposal of the Progress Party to set up an infrastructure fund of DKK 300 billion, which would imply that rail and public transport would be allocated approximately. NOK 3 billion more per year. the year in which the proposal for an alternative State budget is made by the Progress Party. This would also involve a sharp increase in the appropriations allocated to the railways, which would be much greater than the Government's proposals put forward for 2008. Unfortunately, the majority do not want to support this proposal, which would mean a sharp increase in both rail and road appropriations in Norway. When the Progress Party does not get a majority in favour of this fund, we must give priority, and we have pointed out that our road network is so bad that there must be a real boost here first. Then we get back to the railway afterwards, just like you do, for example. does in our neighbouring country Sweden, where you first built a proper tribal road network, and now builds up a real rail network. The Progress Party has therefore proposed to increase the allocation for road use by DKK 7.5 billion, with an additional SEK 4.5 billion in total to efficient, safe and environmentally friendly routes. It is also environmental policy to build proper and proper roads that do not stifle and release unnecessary amounts of environmentally hazardous substances. In addition, we're proposing 900 million. kr for a strong strengthening of the means of operation and maintenance. Furthermore, I would like to point out that we are proposing 500 million. kr to the middle parts. It would have been a very important road safety measure and would reduce the number of fatalities and heavy road damage. I would also like to point out two aspects that I believe it is very special that the government does not choose to give priority. The first concerns grants to the Rescue Company, which last year the Government reduced by 10 million. kr, which is now being continued at the same low level for 2008. This means that the company will have to review its activities in the future and assess the level at which it will be able to operate its services. This will mean a much worse rescue offer along our coast, which we think is a bit special when the number of drowning accidents has risen in recent years. In that case, it is a little special to reduce the subsidy to an active prevention organisation, which is there not least when the accident is over. Finally, I would also like to point out that the WWF, the World Wilderness Fund, has applied for grants from the Ministry of its ‘Clean Coast’ project to train oil protection crews in the coastal zone. After the ‘Server’ accident, we saw how important it is to have crews that can help clean up oil spills in the area around the wreck. So we think it's a little special that the department doesn't want to support this training. 500 000 kroner is small money, and this could be an important contribution if you were to have a new oil disaster. It would ensure that you would be much better rusted if an accident were to happen again, to get cleaned up, so that there would be the least possible contamination.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1927	The second year in a row, this government keeps what it has promised. It is now allocated almost NOK 6 billion more to the road, track and port. This is an expression of a commitment to infrastructure in our country. The Stoltenberg II government also maintains its efforts to stop the decline on Norwegian roads and tracks, while at the same time finding room for investment on roads and ports and a continued uplift for the railway sector. In other words, the government continues the historical effort of the 2006 budget. One thing I'd like to draw out is the government's investment in goods. The government has already strengthened the facilitation of freight transport. The level of investment has increased. The planning activity has increased and the electricity charge for trains has been removed. The exemption from the driving charge has been increased to 25 tonnes, which is very important for the transport of timber. Means have also been provided to increase the axle load on several routes, which will result in much better capacity utilisation, and that will be good for the environment again. Overall, the Government has introduced freight-oriented measures for 450 million. kr in the last year's budget and in this budget. We have read that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in the climate negotiations want a freight package of 250 million. kr for the railway, which in that case will mean a reduced level of ambition. Increased rail capacity is good for the environment. One freight train corresponds to 24 fully loaded wagons on the road. In other words, rail investment will bring great economic and environmental benefits to society. More goods by rail will lead to fewer road accidents, a cleaner environment, a reduced need for road development and less road wear. Unlike the representative Hoksrud, this government is able to have two thoughts in its head at once. In the context of Oslopackakt3, the Government has submitted a bill to allow the transfer of money from toll companies to the operation of public transport. It is worth noting the comments of the Progress Party on Oslopackak 3. These differ greatly – to put it mildly – from the work now done by the Society's own travel agency in Oslo, Peter N. Myhre. What they call "force" in their comments, Myhre travels around this city and presents as his project and as a great bet. By reading the comments of the Progress Party on Oslopackakt 3, you get a good lesson in double morals: While it is first important to stress that there is a consensus that there should not be a rush time charge, and that this consensus is important for what has been achieved, the Progress Party in the next sentence removes the basis for cooperation, when they write that it is not relevant to use tolls on public transport. I ask possible partners in the future to take note of the practice of the Progress Party: to face only their gains in a compromise. Without Oslopackakt3 and the collective effort that lies there, Oslo would have been strangled by traffic. Oslo would also have been stifled by traffic if the proposal of the Progress Party on the State Purchases Scheme had been adopted here today. The proposal of the Progress Party is to cut NOK 0.5 billion into the scheme, which would mean that almost all government-supported passenger traffic had to go down. Every single day, the NSB transports 120,000 people to and from Oslo. If this offer had been removed, passengers would have had to use a bus or their own private car. It may be interesting to note that passengers on one NSB locomotive are 7 kilometres by car. It is well asked whether the four-wheelers of the Advance Party would think that this is particularly fun. Large fixed costs to the NSB and to materials such as a non-exact sale on a garage sale make it impossible in practice to carry out such a large cut in one year. The proposals of the Progress Party are unthinkable. For the state, which owns 100 pst. by the NSB, this is incompatible. I cannot understand how, in the opinion of the Progress Party, such a cut proposal could help to strengthen the impression of the state as a serious and good owner. I believe that people in Norway should be happy that it is the red-green and not the blue and dark blues that govern the country and the transport policy. We should all be pleased that we have a government that has a high level of social inclusion on the agenda and that is pursuing a powerful and predictable policy. We are looking forward and moving forward, in line with the Soria Moria declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e1953	Norway’s prosperity is largely linked to what comes from the sea, to petroleum and fish resources and to maritime transport. In other words, the activity in Coast Norway is very important for the value creation of the country. Transport policy is important in order to ensure coastal settlement and industrial activity in the future. The Soria Moria Declaration states that maritime transport and ports are an important part of the transport policy, that safe coastal traffic needs to be facilitated and that ports need to be upgraded in order to get more goods on board. The 2008 draft budget brings us closer to the Soria Moria declaration in this area too. Fishing ports are important for marine value creation. Measures in the fairways are important both for maritime safety and for accessibility. That is why I am pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to a marked increase in the allocation for the development of fishing ports and fairgrounds. In the budget, the Government has proposed an increase of 105 million in the allocation to the state development of fishing ports and ferries. kr. This means that the projects of the Coastal Agency’s action programme are mainly followed up by appropriations. With the 2008 budget, we will facilitate the follow-up of the planning framework in the national transport plan 2006–2015. In addition to the appropriations for fishing ports and fairway managers, the Government proposes to grant grants to municipal fishing port facilities of 30,1 million. kr in 2008. The government's efforts to obtain more transport by sea are justified by the fact that more goods by sea contribute to: increased promotion of environmental improvements in safety availability These are all key objectives of transport policy. As an instrument for efficient and safe maritime transport, the Government will further develop ports as a logistics hub in the supply chain and in the transport corridors. The revised Law on Ports and Waters will be an important tool to achieve this. A bill has been at the hearing, and the ministry is now working on the hearing opinions. Proposals for revised port and water law will be submitted to the Stortinget in spring 2008. National transport plan is the main cross-policy instrument for long-term thinking in transport policy. It provides the basis for comprehensive policy assessments, effective use of instruments and strengthening the interaction between modes of transport. It is important that ports are seen in a wider transport policy context. I look forward to the agencies submitting their plan proposals, which in January will be handed over to the Minister for Transport and myself. An overall committee suggests that the activities of the northern regions, both Norwegian and Russian, present new challenges in maritime safety and oil protection. More international maritime traffic along the Norwegian coast leads to increased demands for the Norwegian maritime infrastructure. In this picture, we need to take care of Norway’s interests as a coastal state. This is why more action is being taken to strengthen maritime safety and preparedness in the northern part of the country. As you know, a new traffic centre is established in Vardø this year. It shall monitor the traffic along the coast of North Norway. We have also introduced required sailing leaders 30 nautical miles off the coast, from Vardø to Røst. These members shall be used by all tankers and cargo ships above 5000 gross tonnes in international voyages. The new routes mean that ship traffic which poses a risk of pollution is moved further off the coast and ensures better response time for Norwegian authorities in the event of an acute contamination risk. The sailing links are located within the AIS coverage of the Coastal Authority, so that traffic can be monitored from the new traffic centre in Vardø. As a result of increased traffic in the north, several cooperation projects between Norway and Russia on maritime safety and oil protection have been initiated. Work is being carried out, among others: developing a mutual warning and information system for oil transport in the Barents Sea and along the Norwegian coast. The infrastructure of a well-functioning maritime host that contributes to the prevention of accidents and pollution is an important and overriding objective. Work in this area must be based on the precautionary principle and must be continuously adapted to road traffic developments along the coast as well as the challenges posed by climate change due to increased pressures on maritime infrastructure. The Committee has in its opinion several comments relating to oil protection. The 2008 draft budget strengthens the allocation for the renewal of oil protection equipment by 25 million. kr. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees with this. In the revised 2007 state budget, 29 million were allocated. kr for the restoration of the main depot in Fedje, and in the revised budget for 2007 and the budget for 2008 we have strengthened oil conservation with a total of 54 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2010	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2013	I want to get back to the Rescue Company a little bit more. I'm recording that the Council of State said very little about it. The rescue company carries out a very important maritime safety work and is a crucial resource in maritime rescue work along the Norwegian coast. The Government proposed in the 2006 State budget to reduce the grant to 50 million. kr, proposed for 2007 to reduce the grant to 40 million. kr and has proposed for 2008 to continue. This actually means a new reduction compared to 2007, because it does not compensate for wage and price growth. Where is the logic of the Government, when in a few years the grant to the Rescue Company has been reduced by 20 million. kr, while a unanimous committee states that the job they do is essential for maritime safety along the Norwegian coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2023	The rescue company is doing an excellent job for maritime safety along the coast, and I agree with the majority comments related to this. Then it is that the Government makes a non-negligible contribution to the work of the Rescue Company. For $40 million. kr you get done very much. Then I have to say that the Advance Party gives with one hand and takes with the other, because at the same time you want to give more money to the Rescue Company, you cut 35 million. kr for the operation of the Coastal Works. It is quite obvious that such a cut does not provide more maritime safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2030	U-864 is the name of the submarine missile, which is filled with mercury and is located outside Fedje in Hordaland. I have previously praised the Council of State that the first thing she did when she returned from her leave was to stop the matter of covering the wreck, because there was new information here in Stortinget. But it's urgent to clarify, if we're going to be able to take advantage of the next summer season for a possible uplift. I think the Council of State is a little vague in its budget, when she writes that here we get a clarification during 2008. Can the Council of States show the same power of action now and promise us that we will have a clarification, so that we can take advantage of the summer 2008 season?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2039	The local people on Fedje and the transport committee on Stortinget have been very committed to this matter, and that was an important reason why we decided to go for an extra round of alternatives other than the coverage of U-864. But once you have chosen to do so, it is quite obvious that the alternative procedures also need proper treatment. Now it's been a qualifying round. We are about to start a bidding round, where the tenderers will be asked to submit their proposals and put a price tag on them, and it is clear that we cannot provide that process.It would not be appropriate in view of the major environmental protection interests involved. It's quite obvious that we're not going to start any coverage or uplifting in the 2008 season. It will be possible for summer season 2009 at the earliest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2046	Let me first commend the Minister of Fisheries and Coast for the increase in the budget of the Department. It's intrusive, and it's a joyous development, which we hope can continue. So to a matter that has flourished for some time, and that can now look like getting its solution, namely by getting the project started with Stamsund port. It is gratifying that in the vote there is a majority comment in which the government parties are present, and it was confirmed in Tor-Arne Stroem's posts that we can now almost get started. There's also a minority comment where it says about the same thing. That means that there's a total mass that wants to have this port relocated somehow. Then my question to the Council of State is, what's the next chapter? Can the Council say anything about how she will deal with this in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2057	In St. prp. No 1 says the Government will come back with a new assessment of the Stamsund port if larger trawlers are purchased that do not enter today's port and that are important for the fishing industry in the area. The Ministry currently has a dialogue with the municipality about this. I can't say here and now what the outcome of that dialogue is, or when we're in port.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2062	A greater and greater proportion of coastal traffic is oil-related. We also know that there is increasing oil activity in areas with greater and greater challenges in terms of climate, whether wind or cold. I have got a lot of impression that the equipment is not good enough to deal with an oil leak in strong wind and cold. Oilification Norway must invest in research and development of new equipment to deal with an accident, if any. Left allocates 100 million. kr more for oil protection than the government has done. My question, then, is this: is the Council satisfied and comfortable with the situation regarding oil protection and equipment here to land? And further, does the Council of State agree that the Left's budget is better also with regard to oil protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2069	I share Mr Kongshaug's commitment to oil protection, and that is precisely why the Government has also reestablished the deposit in Fedje, as the previous government, where the Left, put down. In the 2008 budget, we are also putting in place a substantial increase in oil protection. The Coast Guard Agency has made a report on oil preparedness needs up to 2010, and it will follow up the government in next year’s budgets. As far as the representative of Kongshaug mentions climate change is concerned, it is quite clear that the maritime infrastructure, the oil defence industry and the other thing we are involved in in this area need to be assessed in relation to the climate change that is coming, no matter what we are doing now. That work has been started by the Coast Guard.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2076	I want to go back to what has been said about Stamsund port. It has been promised for several years now to expand Stamsund port. And it says in the comment from the majority, which is very good, that if the radiation company that supplies raw material to the fishing industry decides to invest in new and bigger jets than today, then you have to give money for this. The first investment in trawls has already been made. It's a new investment in another trawler. In other words, the criteria underpinning the State's entry into and action are met. There's a big problem here. It also shows the interest that both the municipality and the company have in being willing to advance this as well as to pay interest, if necessary. My question is, are the requirements now met, so that you can put the spade in the ground and get it started?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2083	I have little desire to deal with individual matters from Stortinget's pulpit. I want to refer to the review we have of this in St.prp. No 1, and to the dialogue we have with the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2088	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2091	The Minister of Transport is not present right now – but in today's debate on transport, we have heard a lot of rumors from the government parties about their commitment to transport. This boast, however, is a questionable truth. I don't doubt the intentions of the Council of State, but she hasn't brought her government colleagues with her to keep the promises of fulfilling the National Transport Plan, which thus has a lag of nearly NOK 2 billion. It's going to be a lot to repeat in the last financial year. In my and the Right, there is another fact that is far worse, namely that there is no organisational or structural development whatsoever in the area of transport, not in any of the carriers. Greece from the Right mentioned earlier today very many of the measures taken under the previous government, so I will not go into them. Project funding was to be the big red-green response to OPS, without anyone telling us what was in it. It's also cleared out. There's reason to ask if there's really so much disagreement within the government in these questions, that the result is that nothing happens. At least it is sad for Norwegian traffic, which loses four years of opportunity for reform and development, as well as in organisational and financing solutions. There is a political consensus that there is a need for more offensive investment in the development of the tribal road and more systematic maintenance, but the government does not come up with new solutions to do this. The right will take action to achieve this, not only in the field of maintenance and pedigree operations, but also within the major challenges ahead of us in the field of railway development. The majority have a very offensive comment on the importance of providing a principal basis for decision-making on high-speed rail investment in Norway. Such a promise cannot be realised without a creative and rational arrangement for development and funding. It is the government's duty to come up with solutions that can meet the challenges we face here. The right has a lot of thoughts about this. We are happy to assist in the development of ideas in order to create a modern and time-consuming transport policy and management. Public Private Cooperation is a form of contract for building new, larger road installations, which have brought us a good deal in the right direction. The evaluation reports are unmistakably positive, but also here the Government is reluctant. We were promised publicity and road choices in this state budget. Now it's exposed. OPS has given up to 40 pst. faster implementation of road projects and better risk sharing between countries, lenders and project companies. In addition, we have received predictable maintenance, which has not been released swinging budgets. Right will have more OPS. We believe that OPS can be made more reasonable by combining OPS with a system of public guarantees. For example, it expands. the current arrangements with a State guarantee institution may be further optimised. But OPS is not enough if we're going to get a real bet. The right will go further. Norway may have a more offensive road and rail operation by using OPS in combination with concessions. In the technical language, this is called BOT – Build, Operate and Transfer, or in Norwegian: build, operate and transfer. The point is that a company is granted a public concession to finance, project, build and operate an installation for a concession period, for example: 30 years. Thereafter, the installation is returned to the public free of charge. The use of the BOT model is even more beneficial to society than OPS, because all elements of the project are being moved an order and the entry costs out of the government budget and into the private sector, as any other private investment project. As a result, the State budget is charged at least annually and the project is not part of private GDP either. In the course of time the concessionaire operates the installation, the company – or the concessionaire – requires remuneration for the use of the installation in line with the concession conditions, or in the form of tolls, so that the investment, operation and maintenance of the installation is financed. The State only checks that the concessionaire complies with the contract and the framework conditions for the operation. Many projects in the central part of the country could have been realised as a BOT project, simply because they are economically profitable. We're dependent on getting models that can meet the big challenges we're facing, and so it's strange that we don't get solutions on the table from the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2115	In 2007, we saw a marked increase in transport appropriations. This level is further increased in 2008 and a realistic objective is now to bring the allocation to the level of NTP over the four-year period together. Nevertheless, many projects and measures are being delayed. This is mainly due to the fact that the state of the road and rail networks requires more means of maintenance and operation than provided for in the NTP and a large increase in the cost of the projects. In addition, we have a large increase in traffic, especially on freight transport that is paving the way, increasing the risk of accidents and detonating rail capacity. This clearly shows the need for an even greater investment in the next NTP period. We've been talking about getting goods from road to track for a long time, and now we're doing it. The economy wants to use the railway, and then it's urgent to expand its capacity. The importance of accessibility and road safety requires the development of our main roads. There's a lot of work going on here, and we're about to have four-field roads on both E6 and E18 from Oslo to Sweden. Along the west corridor is the continuous four-field road from Oslo to Tønsberg. It has been adopted starting on the first two parcels of E6 from Gardermoen to Colomoen. It's important that we get a coherent expansion of this whole route, if one has to use state regulation plan to get it done. The expansion must not stop. In the next NTP period, we also need to bring the development of E6 through the Gudbrand valley. Much of the traffic here is transit traffic. The E6 and the other main years of travel in Uppland and Hedmark are crucial for the transport of goods from the West, the Trondelags and North Norway. With a successful business, freight traffic on these roads has also increased considerably. Unfortunately, accident rates follow, and the numbers are increasing most recently in the country. The number of deaths and injuries on Norwegian roads is increasing overall for the second consecutive year. This is, of course, unacceptable and requires increased attention. In Oppland, 25 people were killed in traffic during the first 10 months of the year, compared with 14 in the corresponding period in 2006. For Hedmark, the corresponding figures are 23 in 2007 – and 18 in 2006. This is far worse than the rest of the country. It clearly shows the need to build better and more traffic-proof roads in these counties. I also have to mention that these states have over 10 pst. of the national road network, but only gets 4 pst. of the funds allocated. This shows that the criteria for the allocation of sentinel funds need to be revised. The biggest challenge of our time is climate change. In Norway, the transport sector accounts for almost one third of CO2 emissions. Therefore, a climate plan must contain a number of measures to reduce traffic emissions. One measure is, of course, a much stronger commitment to public transport. Increased deployment on the rail will be essential to reduce emissions. That is why it is good that we now have investigations and a broad debate on lightning trains. The liner train can not only compete with air traffic, it must also compete with road traffic and become an offer to the people between cities. At the same time, we must facilitate the transport of goods. Road traffic accounts for most accidents and emits many times as much CO2 as air traffic. A high-speed rail should help to ensure improvements to current intercity routes in the East. I also believe that a fast path between Oslo and Trondheim that goes through the Gudbrand valley has many advantages. Here the market base will be higher – regional traffic in the east will be catchable in addition to traffic from the north-west, which will also have a significant impact on freight traffic. The same applies to the intercity section between Eidsvoll and Lillehammer, which has also pointed out by nature protection organisations that it is urgent. I believe that we cannot go further with the investigation of lightning trains without at the same time finding an alternative through the Gudbrand valley. In that context, I believe that one must be able to benefit from the work that Norsk Bane has already done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2138	Traffic is something that somehow affects everyone. The most remote part of transport is road traffic. Unfortunately, there is far too little focus on this from the Government. One can talk as much as one will about fast or lightning trains, but it will affect only a small part of the population — at an incredibly high cost. Investment in such a project will be an unparalleled grant closure. Where the planes go without a penny in subsidies – yes, in fact, a contributor in the form of fees to the Treasury, while financing the operation of unprofitable airports – one must therefore replace this with a lower offer at a much higher price. I want to ask the fans of quick and easy: Where are they going to get the money? Is it the drivers who, through tolls or rush time charges, are also to finance this, which they finance road development and reach public transport to an increasing extent? Or is construction to be financed through cuts in today's road allocations? We know from experience that fresh money at this level does not come, especially not at this level. Now one knows that such a construction is not close to being business-economical profitable, yes, the report of the German consultants actually shows that it is a very weak socio-economic utility. And as if this is not enough, the report also shows that this does not result in any significant reductions in CO2 emissions. The faster the government takes away this unrealistic proposal, the more money we can save, and the more money we can use to build a safe and forward-looking road network. According to the Directorate-General of Roads, it will cost approximately €. EUR 500 billion to put in place efficient, safe and environmentally friendly national roads in Norway if it is assumed that the national road network will meet the requirements of good standards, according to road standards. The main road network alone has a documented need of NOK 240 billion in order to achieve the term ‘good standard’ in road normal conditions. With today's budgetary framework and allocation system in Norway, this will take between 50 and 100 years. This leads to accidents, with people who end up in wheelchairs, or even worse to many deaths, as well as all the suffering that their relatives have to endure. In addition, poor road standards cost large sums, not just for society as a whole, but especially for business around the country. We cannot have a national assembly in one of the richest countries in the world that accepts this. Many people turn on their breasts because we have adopted a zero vision, with zero killed and hard damage in traffic – but then we also have to act afterwards. The difference between the Progress Party and the Government Parties is that the Progress Party in its allocations actually takes into account a much safer road network, through the development of new and modern roads as quickly as it is practicable to implement it. The Government has repeatedly stated that they will not increase the level of taxation beyond the level of 2004. What, though, is the introduction of an increasing number of toll projects, the introduction of an alcohol duty and now that drivers are paying both collective solutions and the operation of public transport? This is nothing but an additional tax on a group of people who depend on using the car as a means of transport. If society needs more collective solutions, everyone has to be on a platter for this. It cannot be the case that an additional charge should be added to the individual group that pays the most fees of all, namely the drivers. These charges are nothing but an extra tax on people who depend on the car. It is an unfair and unsolvable charge that hits completely randomly and, of course, hits those who have the least, most harshly. In this way, it can be said that this is a good way to get involved in the Government's impoverishment. These fees are nothing more than that – fees that have been tried to sneak in in a slightly different, subtle way. There is nothing but an increase in the level of taxation beyond the level of 2004, as the red-green government parties have promised in their faith and honour that they would not – but they do so by detour.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2160	I see in the Newspaper one day that Minister of Transport Navarsete is putting all the new railway projects on ice. The next day she's the vice president of the Center Party and she goes in to make sure that more oil money should be spent on the road and the railway. Since I have a considerable sense of the Vice President of the Central Party, I wish the Vice-Chairman had had greater influence on the Minister of Transport than the case seems to be. And since I believe that the most active business policy we can pursue is to provide a better functioning infrastructure, I am not of those who, in total, are cheering over the 2008 transport budget – in particular this concerns the railway budget. It is worrying that in 2008 we will not start a single major railway station. Current installations swallow the entire amount of investment. And if we look forward to one year, the prospects are certainly not particularly brighter. Only in order to maintain the rate of expansion of ongoing installations will the level of investment in 2009 have to be raised quite sharply. Then someone can judge – because we still want good times in this country, with great private purchasing power – the probability that there will be room for waiting railway projects in 2009. If the transport sector is to meet its Kyoto commitments, the Government is to follow up its railway commitments in Soria Moria, and if the railways are to be able to carry out their transport tasks in the most populous parts of the country, I am convinced that the development of the railway must be financed in a completely different way from today. There is hardly a public building, a kindergarten, a nursing home, a school, an airport or a road in this country that is not financed by a loan. And the state is able to borrow by itself, as you do in Sweden. Then it is a paradox that the development of the most environmentally friendly mode of transport we have is hampered by a method of financing that actually prevents the effective, coherent development of longer sections of the road. The evaluation of the OPS projects in the road sector should now have taught us how important access to capital is for the rapid, efficient and socially viable implementation of development projects. It is soon no other than certain tone-setting environments in the central administration that are now insisting that all railway development is to be financed from the state budget. Social economists have long since lost control of road investment and public construction, and oil investments have never been particularly influential. It is as if they are now clinging to the railway, in a last attempt to maintain a certain level of management of infrastructure investments. In return, they do not raise an eyebrow about oil investments by DKK 15 to 20 billion in a year. Then we see what this leads to: we get a clumsy expansion of the railway network, simply because departmental departments, trade unions and developers no longer dare to throw themselves into the big, continuous development projects, because they must be going on for years, and because you cannot trust that the annual appropriations for the state budget will go on. In fact, there is much evidence that the lack of predictability contributes to the cost increase in the construction sector, which is therefore the underlying reason why all available investment funds in 2008 are channelled into ongoing projects. It is the fate of Vestfoldbanen, Østfoldbanen and the great Oslo-Ski project now suffer. So, in the richest country in the world, where the state treasury is flooded with money, we don't dare to go ahead with major continuous railway investments, because it threatens the sacred and unwavering budget balance – where a billion-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand-thousand is obviously crucial for the price of money, interest rates, prices, wages and other accidents. More than ever, we are in the process of making infrastructure development cyclical, with the railway as a last balancing item. And when we keep pushing adopted long-term plans in front of us, yes, then we will have a credibility problem with our voters. I can understand that in a sense. However, when we have comprehensive planning processes over the years, involving everything from municipal politicians, state politicians, transport centres, departments and staging representatives, it also creates expectations outside the population. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs again.]] It does not just affect us big-time representatives who have been bold enough to take Stortingen's plan decisions seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2177	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2180	It was as if the representative of Gullvåg had stolen my manuscript. The future is created – it is not adopted, says one of the political slogans of the Progress Party. Those who have read some political philosophy will know that this slogan is based on central thinking in liberalism, namely that we all have an independent responsibility for how we choose to live our lives, and that politicians cannot or should not take this responsibility from us. Unfortunately, liberalism's supporters have never had a majority in this Chamber, and therefore, changing governments have made an abundance of promises that they will under no circumstances be able to fulfill. We remember all Bondevik's proclamation about removing all bullying in school, and his vision of zero hurting in traffic. We remember Stoltenberg's promise to make Norwegian school the best in the world, and the government's guarantee to eliminate poverty in Norway. Everyone knows that these promises will not be fulfilled – not because politicians do not have the best intentions, but simply because the fulfilment of such promises lies outside the framework of what we politicians can adopt. The issues such promises travel are so complex that the combination of money and good will will never be sufficient. The strange thing is that in the areas where we politicians can actually exercise a difference, a majority in this room chooses to abdicate from its responsibility. The Progress Party believes that Norway as a nation should have the ambition to build the world’s best infrastructure. This is a goal in good, liberalist spirit. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the public should ensure that each of us is given a day-to-day opportunity for maximum self-development and that external relations do not disqualify anyone from realizing their dreams. Similarly, the world's best infrastructure will provide our business with the very best framework conditions for doing what it has to do, creating jobs and values for the nation. Unfortunately, there is no such principle in the Government. There is no recognition that policies have their limitations, and not least, no recognition that increased appropriations for passive benefits can make societal challenges worse in the long term. The fact that people are basically responsible for their own lives and their own lives does not fit into the social democratic welfare state. And that's precisely why the Government is not able to distinguish between money allocated to passive benefits and money allocated to infrastructure to create future growth. Alternative governments have used substitutive arguments as to why we cannot afford sufficient resources to expand the road network. Three years ago, the main argument was that if we used a single crown of oil more than the government, this was to be considered stealing from our children's pensions. This was such an important message that the bulk of the population chose to change the name of the Petroleum Fund to the Pension Fund – and that despite the fact that not a single penny in the fund is earmarked pensions! According to the government's own estimates, the Pension Fund in 2030 will be NOK 15 000 billion. This is equal to 3 million. kr on each and every Northman. With such figures, the main arguments of the Government against upgrading the infrastructure in Norway disappeared. When this argument failed, the government chose a new strategy. The use of a single penny more of the oil revenue than the government itself suggests will lead to pressures in the economy – we will get higher inflation and higher interest rates. Today, we see that inflation is record low and far from Norway’s Bank’s inflation targets. Even the Bank of Norway now realises that the interest rate path needs to be adjusted downwards, simply because there is no basis in the regulation to increase interest rates, which confirms the strong dollar rate. When this argument disappeared, the government chose a third strategy. Now we couldn't use a single penny more than what the government is proposing, because we have a shortage of labour. However, although this argument may be valid in certain areas, it has very close validity in the transport sector. Within the EEA, road contractors are in line to offer their services to Norway. The truth is that today's government is unable to take over the enormous possibilities that our gigantic oil revenues provide. The government has stagnated in an old-fashioned, conservative pattern, where it bases any new budget on the appropriations of the previous year. In such a system it is not possible to make the necessary investments in the infrastructure. The result we see here today. As our national wealth increases by 50 million. kr every single hour, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, the representatives and disputes about small amounts. At the same time, the infrastructure is due and the maintenance run is increasing. This brings me to the need to change the procedures for implementing the State budget, and not least the way we deal with the budget here in Stortinget. The Progress Party believes that long-term budgets should be established, distinguishing consumption from investment. Such long-term budgets should include the lifetime costs of investments. With long-term budgeting, it will be possible to see investment in a broader perspective. Appropriations, for example, for the extension of an existing road, with long-term budgeting could include the many positive ring-effects such an investment will have for society. We would like, among other things: In concrete terms, savings can be calculated by reducing traffic accidents – human suffering, hospitalisation, social security, insurance – and we will be able to calculate in concrete terms the reduced transport costs of businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-06.ana.ud2527e2217	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately late, and the Stortinget is now taking a break until a new meeting is seen, at 0 p.m. 6:00 p.m.
