ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e60	The called alternate of the Moors and Romsdal counties, Gunn Berit Gärde, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Delegation of the Grand Duchy to the Spring session of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Madeira, signed by the Head of the Delegation, the Grand Representative Per Ove Wideth. The application concerns the authorisation of the representatives of Jan Arild Ellingsen, Sverre Myrli, Jan Petersen and Per Ove Width from 24 May to 29 May, of the representative of Heikki Holmås from 24 and 25 May and of the representative of Hans Olav Syversen from 24 May to 29 May at 24 hours. 12.00 to 25 May from the Executive Board of the Executive Party on the leave of the representative Tord Lien from 25 May to 1 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Cathrin Bretzeg and Gorm KjernliFor Nordland County: Toril Ø. HanssenFor Oslo: Akhtar Chaudry and Aud KvalbeinFor South Trondelag County: Hanne Dyveke SøttarFor Westfold County: Jan Fredrik Vogt3. Cathrin Bretzeg and Jan Fredrik Vogt are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet for the representatives Jan Petersen and Per Ove Width respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e130	Cathrin Bretzeg, Gorm Kjernli, Toril Ø. Hanssen, Akhtar Chaudry and Jan Fredrik Vogt are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e144	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3105]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e160	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e169	Then we're on again with a debate about motorized travel in the outland. I do not fully understand how many such proposals have been put forward by the Progress Party since 1997, when I came into the Storting, but at least such proposals have come when it is electoral year. The fact that a proposal came back again really surprises me, because everyone who is interested in this matter knows where the matter stands, and that the work now done in the DN, the Directorate for Nature Management, is the basis for the Ministry of the Environment's likely to promote a matter for the Stortinget. I'm probably saying, because maybe this revision can happen with regulatory changes that will save us valuable time. As the rapporteur, I believe it would be unthinkable to accept this proposal from the Progress Party today, as DN is in the middle of its audit work. The matter shall then be referred to the Ministry of the Environment, which shall draw up a legislative or regulatory amendment before it reaches the Ministry of the Environment. I believe that the trials show that the municipalities, which themselves have the overview of their area, must be able to regulate motor travel in the field through the development of a municipal plan according to the Planning and Building Act. That this matter has taken too long, there is no doubt about it, and the impatience out there is great and the atmosphere somewhat ape. Fortunately, however, by letter to the Committee, the Minister for the Environment has assured that the matter will come in 2008, and the majority of the Committee then asks the Government that any legislative change should come to the Stortinget as early as possible in 2008. I will assume that the committee will not be sorry if the matter comes even earlier. We're in arrears anyway. Today we have up to 60,000 snowmobiles in this country, and it goes without saying that this must have an appropriate form of governance that users can respect. It's not like that today. The conflict between the users of nature is one thing, but the conflict between the municipalities and DN must end. There are opportunities to live together if there is a will. This is about living for old and young, it's about travel and tourism, and it's about an active outdoor life. So a little bit to the story. On 2 November 1998, DN sent a letter to the Ministry of the Environment proposing amendments to the national regulation which came in 1988. The Directorate then proposed that the future practice of motor traffic rules be linked to the planning processes of the Law on Planning and Building, and that a test be started with selected municipalities. It was considered that the planning processes would raise awareness of the use of motor vehicles in the field in terms of landscape values and wilderness. At the same time, snowmobiles could be useful in travel and tourism. That time, DN was creative. This was followed up by the Stoltenberg government in 2001 and selected eight municipalities to participate in a trial of municipal autonomy. At the same time, in 2001, during the examination of the Communication on the Government's Environmental Protection Policy and the State of the State for 2000-2001, the majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment expressed satisfaction at the choice of eight municipalities to participate in a snowmobile test scheme, where the Planning and Building Act is to be used as a management tool. We are now at the end of this work. I hope the Council of State will take with it what is being said in the debate today, and that a change in law or regulation will come quickly. Finally, I would like to mention the Red Cross Help Corps training with snowmobiles in sheltered areas, and problems like this have created somewhere in the country. I ask the Council of State to address this in the context of the new changes that are now coming about in the field of motorised travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e195	As the rapporteur pointed out, the main premises of the Progress Party have been tested to focus on with today's Document No. Eight proposals, originally eight, but later seven municipalities. This project has been a success. The reports following the evaluation carried out by NINA in the context of this experiment are clear that a number of benefits have been achieved for the environment as well. Less illegal driving, less driving in the most vulnerable areas, less conflict between the interests of nature and the snowmobile environment has been experienced, and physical activity has been increased by bringing with them family fathers who may be suspected of having been illegally driving on their own, as they were more able to drive legally. There should be no doubt that the evaluation by NINA is very thorough and shows that this project has been a success. Then I find that the majority believe that the MoSa project needs to be launched in order to further document this. I suspect that the MoSa project will also be started a little in order to be able to train the progress in this matter. As I said, the Progress Party and I believe that the NINA reports were very thorough and provided a good basis for a decision to give municipalities increased influence over the management of motor travel in their own areas. In the debate last year, in May 2006, too, some people said this was about free slip, but – and I think that local politicians can emphatically sign it – managing a piece of legislation in compliance with the Planning and Building Act is not a full release. Then I am pleased that the rapporteur of the file stated that there is a need for change. I have to refer again to last year's debate, and I can promise that we will come back to this during the debate. Last year it was unclear from the majority whether there was a need for change or not. The rapporteur states that there is a need for change. I fully agree with that. There is a need for change. There is a need to give greater influence to local politicians. In some places it will lead to liberalisation; in others it will lead to tightening up. But everywhere it will be for the best for the environment. I have to point one more thing before I finish. Last year's debate almost attacked the Progress Party because we put this issue in focus, for this was controlled by the Government, it was said. This was to be fixed by the Government by spring 2007. That's what the Council of State even said. This can be found in the debate on 30 May 2006. In the spring of 2007, this was to be sorted out. Then I find that this year, too, the case-rapporteur in Namdalsavisa almost ridicules the Progress Party because we put this in focus. But nothing is happening, and nothing is going to happen without the Progress Party continuing to keep this in focus. And I'm absolutely sure that next year, in May 2008, we will have the exact same debate again, because the government does not show action, but action paralysis in this case. I am promoting the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e210	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e213	Although this case has tended to have a repetition sign by itself, I understand, contrary to the case rapporteur, that the Progress Party is re-addressing this question, because we should probably have been able to put this matter behind us, probably too far. As long as there are no national regulations in place, we will have conflicts around these issues, where conflicts of interest stand against each other. Time and again we see that there are decisions from government managed through state officials, etc. which creates unnecessary conflicts. The pilot project is too far completed, and what should have been evaluated should have been completed. Then someone will be able to ask why we do not then support the proposals of the Progress Party that are being promoted in the Chamber today. That proposal has the nuance that it implies giving municipalities the right that is primarily requested, while we have the distinction in our policy that municipal autonomy must have incorporated national guidelines to meet some of those defined requirements. The experience gained from projects carried out and carried on by seven municipalities, not least through the Hattfjelldal project – in Hattfjelldal – clearly shows that the municipalities are able to take care of the interests that Stortinget really has as its objective and intention to manage at local level. When this takes time, it is also my call to the Council of State that this matter needs to be speeded up, that we should no longer have to do this again and again. Municipal self-government is well-placed to ensure that the Stortinget has the right to impose regulations and national considerations. So a little bit to what the case rapporteur was talking about -- these kinds of debate that we get at local level. For example, because of the insidiousness of these questions, we see that the Red Cross on the Salt Mountain, one of the most severe areas, where Red Cross almost frequently has rescue operations, is prevented from carrying out its work, prevented from practicing, etc. When the warning lamp starts to light up, everyone demands that they call out – and of course they do – but now the follow-up of the administration is driven so far that those who are set to perform rescue work feel that they are unable to do so, by not being properly trained. Now, the Council of State must take an initiative to clean up its own administration, so that it does not sit with small kings around the country and manage this as its own small shop, which causes one to get the varieties of this discussion that has nothing to do with the matter itself. The right now looks forward to the government drawing up final regulations that make us drop these annual rehearsal exercises around these issues in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e232	The test with an alternative management system for outdoor motor travel and the «Motor trade and society» project have been completed and final reports have been submitted to the Directorate for Nature Management as a contracting entity. The reports are included as basic material in the Directorate for Nature Management’s work on revision of the Motor Traffic Code. Following the plan, the Directorate shall submit a proposal for amendments to the existing law/regulation at consultation before the summer. At the end of the hearing, the Directorate will summarise the consultation opinions and make a recommendation to the Ministry in the autumn of 2007. The Ministry is now awaiting the Directorate’s consultation proposal. Once the consultation has been carried out and the final recommendation of the Directorate is available, the Ministry will decide on any changes to the Motor Travel Code. Any legislative changes, which the majority of the Committee has expressed their wish, could probably be promoted by the Stortinget in early 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e241	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e244	It is not often that I quote SVs from this pulpit, but today I have to refer to SV rapporteur Arne Vinje in Vinje in Telemark, who says that he fears the consequences if you release 700 sliders again. He characterizes it so that if one removes this test system, he and his colleagues in the local government would fear conditions in the municipality. I think it is worrying and a little daunting that the Council of State is now in a way very unclear whether it will lead to liberalisation and increased municipal authority. Once again, I would like to refer to Namdalsavias, where Torny Pedersen, the rapporteur of the case, says that the municipalities are getting the shooting authority, it is only a matter of time. Is that correct? According to the Government’s proposal, will municipalities be given increased authority over the forwarder management?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e251	I will not decide in advance, until the consultation proposal from the Directorate is available, and before the hearing bodies have given their opinion, on the actual design of a future motor vehicle traffic code. It's important now that the process goes its way, and that we get all the hearing opinions. I therefore await the Directorate for Nature Management's suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e256	We have to take note of the clear promise made by the Council of State to ‘early in 2008’. My question is about the matter that the rapporteur also raised about the problem that the Red Cross clearly states that they are being prevented from exercising their functions. Does the Council of State have the same knowledge as the rapporteur and the undersigned of given examples, including Beiarn, which operates on the Salt Mountain? Will the Council of State fully address this matter and ensure that the Red Cross is allowed to carry out the work as they wish, in order to carry out the job that everyone expects them to do when the crisis is there?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e264	I personally do not know the specific matter, but I took note of it when the rapporteur mentioned it from the spokesperson of Storting. I can also confirm to the representative of Kristiansen that I should look at the specific matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e269	I react a little to the lack of policy in the post of the Council of State. One has seen that the government is trying to be offensive in many areas and drawing up a lot of guidelines. In particular, in the case of CO2 clean-up at Kårstø, decisions were taken even before the evaluation, before reports were available, because the Government actually wanted to achieve targets. However, in this case one should sit and wait for the evaluation of the consultation notes and everything possible, without saying what the Government itself wants to achieve. NINA has shown through a number of reports that there are positive effects of the pilot projects. It would be natural that the government at least said yes, you want to let these trial projects be the basis, and get more municipal administration of this. Would it not be natural for the Council of State here to say a little about what the government's desired policy is – even if we respect the need for details to be examined through hearings and professional bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e279	It's been a long time since the Soria Moria Declaration was written, what's the government's policy in this area. We have said that we want to pursue a restrictive policy on motorised off-road traffic and that it is important to find measures that reduce the size of off-road traffic. Then we have also said that it is important that we get an evaluation of the test system before we come back with any changes to the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e284	This means that the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e289	I was a little surprised that it was already my turn to get the word back. What we can conclude with so far in this debate is that it was not wasted that the Progress Party raised this issue. So there is not a single promise from the Government in this debate. On the other hand, it is emphasised that there is still a desire for restrictive policies in the field of motor travel. Then I must say that I am both surprised and slightly provoked. I don't know if it's allowed to use the word 'fig' from the pulpit of Storting – if the president has a different word, he's going to suggest it – but it might remind you of cowardice when the Central Party is in a matter so important to local democracy around the country's municipalities, is not in the Chamber and takes the floor. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the municipalities that this is about, the municipalities where this is an important topic, are not progressive party municipalities. They are SV municipalities, central party municipalities and labour party municipalities. Hattfjelldal municipality in Nordland has pure working party plurality. Otherwise, the central party rapporteurs and the SV rapporteurs are burning for this matter. Then I find it disappointing to find that the majority is so to those degrees passive in this matter. I note that the case rapporteur – and all her honor for it – tried to be offensive in this case and park the Advance Party. Then I find out that it was a little bit of a backup to get from the rest of the majority. I guarantee that no matter what the Government had to think about in this matter, there will be a debate about local snowmobile management next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e298	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3105]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e313	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that 3 replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e322	I guess we're still on Earth, literally, some people will think. Also, this is a matter we should have really avoided getting treatment in Stortinget. Just as in the previous case, I think we should appreciate the fact that the matter is still there, when the little trifle that goes on the follow-up of Storting's intention is not in place, as it should have been. When, in its proposal, the Progress Party asks ‘The Government should immediately ensure that the use of the carriage of passengers is permitted in the same way as before the entry into force of the new Act on the Carriage of Occupations of 21 June 2002 and that the intentions of the Storting are properly followed by the county councillors of the country’, we should actually be able to adopt this. It is disappointing that the majority parties, who before the election were crystal clear on this question, now in this case point nothing but that they have noticed the letter of reply from the Council of State. Something else you haven't noticed. I assume that there must still be hope in this case, which has had the unintended effect that a member of the county chooses to perceive the amendment of the Transport Act so that one can set a different date from that which the whole Stortinget had as its intention, that the use of a belt car in winter time would continue only to take place, as before the amendment, until 20 April – naturally enough. So we have this county that thinks Easter Day is a better date. As we know, the date of Easter Day changes from year to year, it's highly mobile. Using calving as an argument to set that day can hardly be particularly durable. In any case, it should not be held here in the house as a valid argument. That's why I think what the whole Stortinget meant before the elections, the cross-political, but in particular the Uppland bench, should now also be expressed by the fact that everyone is able to express a clear goal and wish that the date of April 20 will continue to be fulfilled. When this unintended effect of a change in law is determined emphatically, cross-politically, I think it becomes a bit special that the letter of reply from the Council of State refers to a single matter. It's often simple things that show that we have a problem. There is no problem at all in Norway with the use of a carriage for the carriage of passengers. But when this so emphatically affects a single company as this does, it is my hope that we now get what should have been in place, and that the whole Stortinget really wanted to have in place, namely that a solution regarding the unintended ban as a result of the amended law on professional transport that came into force on 1 January 2003 will now be put in place, and that it is clear that in this case it will not be up to an extended arm to sit and scald with and manage the law at its own discretion. I think the Council of State has to put this matter in place, so that we have a date to deal with that which is not mobile, but which comes every year, namely April 20th. Everything else will lead to these questions coming back to Stortinget again and again. We must be able to clean up such a small matter as this in the name of propriety. Against this background, I am promoting the proposal put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e341	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e344	I shall not say many words in this matter. I believe it is important that the travel businesses at Hövringen still have this arrangement to transport ski tourism during the winter season. The State of Oppland, which has jurisdiction in this case, interprets the situation in such a way that the carriage should end on the second day of Easter in the light of the wild and the pre-calving period. I take note of that. In other words, the Easter early, one may have to stop the trip around March 23rd, but it may also mean that the trip can take place by April 26th, if the Easter is late. As I understand it, it is during the season of Easter most of the drive is going on, and this has been taken into account. I hope that this does not create major problems for the travel businesses at Hövringen. In that case, you will be able to take the matter up again after three years when the period of leave is up. In fact, I think it is a curious thing that some places in the country are still using a belt car to transport tourists on the high mountain. I really think this is a cultural value in itself where you have to find good solutions, and which it is worth taking care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e357	To some extent, this case concerns two belt wagons at Hövringen in Uppland. To at least the same extent, this is about the ability and the will of the Government and the statesmen to follow up the clearly stated intentions of the Storting. What the county councilman does in this matter is not to follow up the Storting's intentions. I believe that this is one of many things in which we see that the statesmen around the country of Norway sit over the Stortinget. I believe that this is a practice that we should put our finger on, as the National Audit Office did in its report on the management of protected areas in Norway. So to the wild. I think the case rapporteur made an excellent contribution. Very familiar is not the wildrein so busy with religious matters that he adds the calf to the Passover. I find it strange that the bulk of the population cannot establish that the reindeer does not add the calf to the Passover. The date of April 20 was the practice before the Storting made a change to the law, and it is also the climactic premise to continue the practice of the legislation. On the contrary, Easter Day does not fall on April 20. April 20 was the basis for the treatment of the Storting, not Easter Day 2. It can't be misunderstood. It is the unwillingness to follow the decision of the Grand Duchy, which underlies current treatment. The representative, Torny Pedersen, says that this can be renegotiated after the period of permission has expired. In the meantime, respect for both statesmen, governments and magnificence has been undermined for three years. I think it's unfortunate. In addition, it may have ended with the practice that the same Pedersen defines as a ‘curiosity’ that we should take care of. In fact, if the company that has these two belt wagons were to find out that it would pay to break the road to the tourist cabin, then there is not one thing the countyman has the opportunity to get away with. Then you can discuss what's best for the wild train, and what leads to the greatest environmental intervention. I hope that the Hövringen doesn't go to the step of breaking the road, but I feel that this matter is – I don't know if I can use the expression here – a little stupid: You have the right to break the road to Hövringen, but according to the County Council and according to the State Council, you are not allowed to drive there with a belt car. I find that strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e366	The President notes that Tord Lien has asked for guidance on two different expressions. He'll be wise to save the president for giving such guidance, not asking to use these expressions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e369	The large-scale work on this matter in the previous period had a clear purpose. The purpose of the regulation was not to permit out-land motor travel to a greater extent than in the past, but to allow regular carriage by a belt-car to the same extent as before the entry into force of the new Professional Transport Act. The Minister for the Environment, in a letter dated 24 April of this year, informs the Committee that the matter lies within the ‘subordinate management body’. That is true, but I expect subordinate administrative bodies to follow up the government's policies and the views of the majority of the population – in this case as in all other cases. It is true that it is stated in the regulation that the county council has the opportunity to grant access to the use of belt cars but is not required to grant such an authorisation. Let me once again stress that it is the intentions and will of the government and the majority of the population that will underpin the decisions of a county or a secondary administrative body at all times. We have to take care of the wild rain – even during the calving period. With the experience we have in this area, I think it is possible with both wild reindeer calving and belting. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we hope that the majority's views on the matter in the previous period will be followed up next year in the case of the Hövringen and the Belt.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e380	On 7 November 2005 the Ministry of the Environment adopted a regulation on the authorisation of the use of a belt-car. The purpose of the regulation – which was also addressed by the representative Holten Hemdal – was not to allow out-of-field motor travel to a greater extent than in the past, but to allow regular carriage by a belt to the same extent as before the entry into force of the new Professional Transport Act. Paragraph 1 of the Regulation empowers the county council to authorise the use of a belted car in cases where there has previously been a regular carriage by a belted car under permission under the previous laws of carriage of passengers of 4 June 1976 No. 3rd@item: inlistbox It is clear from both the wording and from the comments made on the provision that it allows the county to grant access to the use of a belted car, but does not impose any obligation to grant such authorisation. When assessing whether an authorisation is to be granted, it will include, inter alia: be natural to focus on the traditional use of the belt car in the area, taking into account the wild train, the overall environmental and noise impact and the consideration of other user interests. I am referring to the fact that according to the previous Transport Act, regular carriage by a belt car was subject to authorisation. Whether permission was to be granted was left to the county council, which could also lay down conditions for the transport, among other things. with regard to journey times, trajectory, stopping points, payment, etc. The permit was to be limited in time according to the law. Several places in the country are now reintroduced as a result of the regulation. As under the previous Transport Act, these rights are limited in time, taking into account the different interests, as the regulation presupposes. In my opinion, the Ministry, by laying down a regulation on the authorisation of the use of a belt car, has complied with Stortinget’s views during the examination of Document No. 8:56 for 2004-2005, the views that are now being followed by the county. Available Document No In reality, 8 proposals require the Stortinget to take individual decisions on a case where the authority has been added to a subsidiary administrative body under law and regulation. In my opinion, this is not in line with normal administrative practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e397	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e400	President! This time I'm not going to ask what's allowed to say, and what's not allowed to say. I promise to sharpen myself in this regard. Governments had the intention to allow motor travel ‘to the same extent as before’. She talked about the consideration of the wild train etc. In this area, the wild is a theme – it is quite obvious. What interpretation underlies the expression ‘to the same extent as before’? The Countess believes that Easter Day will be April 20. That's about right. every thirty years, for every thirty years, April 20 is the second day of Easter. In 29 out of 30 cases, ‘to the same extent as before’ does not apply — in a few cases ‘to a greater extent than before’, in most cases ‘to a much lesser extent than before’. What is the basis for the interpretation of the Storting's intention? The way I interpret this – with my understanding of state science – is the Stortinget that is the top body in this case. The size has asked for ‘to the same extent as before’. How does the Council of State view this to be fulfilled — from April 20 versus Easter Day 2?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e410	When it comes to the Hövringen, there has been a very long tradition for the use of a belt car. When assessments have been carried out by the County State, particular consideration has been given to the long tradition of Hövringen. By saying that the tradition at Hövringen is important for the Easter traffic, one has just added great weight to it. There is no doubt that commercial interests need to be balanced against the interests of the wild and, for the sake of the wild, ensuring peace and tranquillity in the calving season will be an important issue. That's why one has balanced these interests. Because Easter is an important period for the commercial interests of the Hövringen, a permit has been issued, just for the purpose of caring for the commercial interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e417	The Council of State says that authority has been given to a subordinate body. But what's the problem is that we have a county that actually oversees the Storting's unanimous intention. Then we have a problem. It shouldn't be like that. I assume that the Council of State also agrees with that, and that she has a ground crew who are able to understand that in this country it is still such that the intent of the Storting is overestimated by the county authority at any level. My question is: will the Council of State now take the initiative to set a final date, set at 20 April, or will the Council of State not take the initiative to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e424	In my opinion, by laying down a regulation on the authorisation of the use of a belt car, the Ministry has complied with Storting’s views. So it's the county that manages this in the specific individual cases. Of course, the County Council is set to manage the Storting decision and the Storting intention. This is done in my opinion in this case as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e429	The Council of State said in its statement that, after her assessment, the Ministry has followed up the decision to raise the deficit. I guess that's where the disagreement is. Because in the case of this case at Hövringen, there has been a restriction. If we look at the purpose of the regulation, it was to allow regular carriage by taxi to the same extent as before the entry into force of the new labour transport law. My question to the Council of State becomes quite simple: How will this purpose of the regulation be followed up, as the majority of the Grand Duchy wants, in the specific case of Hövringen? What will the Council of State do now to ensure that the decision of the Storting is followed up in line with the regulation of the Council of State itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e436	When assessing the state, an enterprise’s interests outweigh the interests of the wild. There is no doubt that the professional assessments of the wild train, which need undisturbed pastures and calming at the front of the calving, should in principle not allow the use of a belt car in the area of the spring party. However, precisely because of the intention of the regulation and the long tradition of using a belt car in the Hövringen area, a permit was granted for the entire period, when the commercial interests are greatest, namely in the Easter season. Therefore, one has said that one authorises, precisely for the sake of commercial interests, to operate the business until Easter Day 2, regardless of the day of Easter 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e441	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e446	It surprises me how the red-green parties let go of some important principles that they fought for in this room two years ago, but which are obviously not important when they themselves have come into government. In particular, I notice that the centre party does not take the floor in this case, which they did not do in the previous case. I guess that's a little bit of a reason why the party loses its popularity in rural areas. What it's about here, and what the Council of State was about, is wild and Easter celebration. The representative Tord Lien said it very well, namely that the wild train is not so religious that it adds the calf to the Passover every year, even though the council would like it. There is a point that it is important to have an undisturbed grazing area. We know that the option in that area is that one breaks up a road so that cars can drive instead. I hope the Council of State can take a few extra minutes to explain whether there will be a smaller environmental impact and lead to less noise if a breaker breaks a road and gets car traffic in an area that does not have car traffic in the winter, than if a belt car goes within a bounded route a few times a day on most. In my opinion, the noise and environmental interference will be much smaller if one limits this to belt-car use, instead of encouraging, as Hövringen has said, as an alternative, that they break up a road. They have the full opportunity. The environmental perspective is not really affected. One is hiding behind formalities on Easter celebration instead of going into what is the real point, namely that the Stortinget gave a clear message in 2005. That message has not been followed up. A hiding behind formalities about Easter celebration. Nor does a real environmental concern when one of the closest people says that it is better to break a road and increase car traffic, rather than to have a belt-car ride on the level that one has always had. I hope the Council of State will comment on this a little bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e459	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 4 and 5 are treated together. [[See page 3105]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e488	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes each. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e501	In a matter like this, people should like to recommend having with their oxygen mask; there will be a lot of moon landing talk and talk about ambitions in this matter. In general, there are some things that the committee very much agrees on. One notes that the Government and Statoil have concluded an agreement to set up a company to test various technological solutions for CO2 cleaning. The aim is to have a pilot CO2 clean-up facility completed by 2010 and implement the full scale of CO2 clean-up at Mongstad in 2014. The investment decision for full scale installations shall be taken in 2012, but one shall start work on the agreement as early as 2009. The establishment of the technology company and the investment decision of the test facility shall take place in January 2008, and the Stortinge will be dealt with in the budget for 2008. There is an overall committee that is in favour of the State contributing here to the research and development of a CO2 value chain. Mongstad becomes such an arena for targeted testing and unwinding of CO2 capture technologies. Current action costs are estimated to be 700 to 2000 kroner per year. Ton CO2, that's the same estimate we have on Kårstø, but the ambition is of course to reduce this considerably. The ownership ratio of the technology company to be established is 80 pst. on the State's hand and 20 pst. on Statoil. Expenditure for 2007 is estimated at 100 million. kr. I note that in the construction of full-scale installations in Mongstad, the State will cover all costs in addition to the costs that Statoil will in any case receive through the CO2 quota scheme. This means that the State actually covers the bulk of the investment and operating costs of the fishing facility, in addition to transport and disposal costs in the fields. On the other hand, the State will acquire ownership of any over-the-counter as a result of the income from a CO2 value chain, if one realises it. Statoil takes on its own the risk of having to cover 100 pst. of possible project excesses in addition to changes in the gas price or regulatory changes. On the part of the Progress Party, we note that the main principles of the agreement on which it is based are in line with Document No. The 8th proposal, which the Progress Party promoted last spring, was then voted down by the other parties on the Stortinget. One of them was that when the State requires CO2 cleaning and imposes this on the companies, the State will also cover all the additional costs. Last May it was totally out of date. In Mongstad, the principle is to apply. Statoil may build a gas power plant without a requirement for CO2 cleaning from day one, and the State takes all the additional costs. In this way, fortunately, the technological and economic risks warned by the Progress Party have been eliminated, which means that a gas plant actually being built in Hordaland is most necessary in view of the power situation in the region. The Progress Party welcomes the State’s contribution to the research and development of a CO2 value chain, including: CO2 cleaning/handling, transport and injection. There are many advantages to success. An individual may receive increased revenue from increased oil extraction. One can get income from the sale of the technology, and one can thus also get reduced costs that are imposed on us through global CO2 obligations. At the same time, one should be a little sober when talking about moon landing at Mongstad. There are a lot of other countries and a lot of other companies that are also working on just this. Having a debate where we in Norway later seem to be the only ones who look at it becomes a little self-centered. It is also important to take into account the perspective of cutting CO2 emissions from power generation, it is for coal power, not for gas power, one should implement this technology first. It is from coal-fired power plants that the CO2 emissions are the largest, and it is where one has significant local pollution as well. That perspective should be included in this work. The Progress Party believes it is important to have a level playing field with all CO2 framework conditions. It is regrettable that the Government has not clarified anything about the CO2 framework conditions for other gas and coal power projects in Norway. Equal treatment of projects must be a prerequisite, because when a non-discriminatory person creates unnecessary political risks, which means that for power projects other than Mongstad one does not know what one has to deal with. This means that in those parts of the country where a person needs significant volume and new power quickly, many players will sit on the sidelines without daring to make investment decisions. I therefore miss the good general leadership of the case, so that for other similar projects, the predictability necessary to assess profitability and realism at an early stage is given. If the government believes that such a non-discrimination would be for animals, rather than risking the safety of power, it should have fallen off the requirement as such. The Progress Party believes it is important to ensure participation from the Norwegian business community. The government’s proposed progress in CO2 clean-up at Mongstad in 2014 and Kårstø in 2011/2012 – at least as they are today – means that the Norwegian supplier industry is largely excluded from the competition. Aker Kværner with his JustCatch project is probably the longest in the history of Norwegian companies, and they themselves say that they need a few more years to have a full-scale solution ready. I've noticed through the media that the red-green parties are fighting internally about what makes sense. I record that the Workers' Party and the LO often say that it is important to get Norwegian industry here, while the Center Party and SV believe that it is the time frame that is the most important, that Kårstø is to be cleaned in 2014 – regardless of Norwegian technology or not. The Progress Party believes that a run must be made where Norwegian businesses are included as far as possible. There is little reason why Norwegian taxpayers should contribute millions and billions in order for foreign companies to have their technologies tested in Mongstad. It will only help to ensure that any technological breakthroughs give foreign companies an advantage over Norwegian companies. In that case, it should be financed by the foreign companies themselves. The environmental movement claims that the most important thing is to clean the CO2 emissions from Mongstad as soon as possible, regardless of which nation delivers the technology. The Progress Party disagrees. If the main point is to reduce CO2 emissions as soon as possible on a general basis, emission reductions at a lower cost in the short and medium term will be achieved by doing so elsewhere than in Mongstad. PointCarbon has suggested that measures that cost 10-30 times less than today's CO2 cleaning of gas power plants can be implemented through international trading of allowances. The Prime Minister suggested the same thing, but said it would be 10–20 times cheaper abroad. At the hearing of the Committee on 29 March this year, Mr Lant of the ECON stated that CO2 cleaning of gas power was among the most expensive CO2 reduction measures available today. On the other hand, the CO2 treatment of coal power would be much more cost-effective. This was also reflected in a report from Vattenfall, which said that the cost of CO2 clean-up today is twice as high as the average cost of reducing global CO2 emissions by 27 billion tonnes of CO2. This view shares the Progress Party. Therefore, we believe that we need to look closely at the matter before making a final investment decision on a full-scale facility. Norwegian resource use in reducing CO2 emissions must be based on the highest possible global cut, given a certain amount of money. It must be made independent of geographical location and chosen technology. Of course, this must happen in parallel with Norway taking on a partial responsibility for developing new cost-effective technologies for future CO2 reductions. But we should keep our heads cold. The Progress Party is sceptical about the commitment to invest in full scale CO2 cleaning in Mongstad, regardless of cost. The total cost of the project will only arise once the technology company has developed and evaluated the different technological solutions. Therefore, the Stortinget needs to conduct a thorough review of the project before making an investment decision in Mongstad in 2012, not because it has to discharge itself, but simply to ensure that the money is used where it is most useful. Assessment of dietary benefits must be an essential principle in CO2 work. Therefore, CO2 treatment in Mongstad should not be an objective in itself, either in terms of the use of CO2 for increased oil extraction or in terms of meeting future CO2 obligations. We have to make sure that the resources are used where you get the most back. Therefore, it is important that the Storting here gives a clear signal that we want an overall approach to the CO2 clean-up project. There is now a CO2 clean-up project at Kårstø, Mongstad and Tjeldbergodden, but there is very little coordination between the projects. At Kårstø, the State is responsible for the entire CO2 clean-up project, and the project is characterised by political stress to comply with the Soria Moria declaration. In Mongstad, on the other hand, there is a sensible joint project between Statoil and the State, with a relatively good agreement between the parties. Shell and Statoil work not only with CO2 cleaning, but with a whole value chain, without getting special backing from the authorities. In addition, Hammerfest Energi, Skagerak Energi and Sargas have aired several CO2 projects. These projects need to be viewed in a coherent way, so that pilot projects are built where they benefit most from research and development, rather than political excellence in geographical location. An overall approach will thus provide a much better use of resources. In practice, for example: the construction of a pilot project on Kårstø as soon as possible and then the experience of building a full-scale CO2 cleaning plant on the Tjeldbergodden and/or Mongstad. In both of these places there is much greater CO2 emissions than in Kårstø, and in both places there is an oil company that wants this to be realised. On Kårstø, however, there is no very close cooperation with Statoil. There is no plan for a pilot plant, and there is no oil company involved. The overall approach is to make better use of the investments made, both in terms of time, progress, costs and experience with technology. This is an approach supported by industry, the research community and the LO. I also think it is important to raise other CO2 approaches when we spend so much time in Mongstad, because there are a number of exciting CO2 projects around Norway, where CO2 is used as an input in further production. It is remarkable that in the vast majority of cases, these projects are almost overtaken in silence by the political environment. The Institute of Energy Technology has long worked on projects to bind CO2 to minerals such as olive oil and ilmenite. You use CO2 as an input and get out very valuable product at the other end. Shell has similar projects, where by tying up CO2 you can make bricks for the construction industry. The company EnPro has developed technologies that can convert seawater into agricultural water by binding CO2 to seawater salts. CO2 is cleaned from a nearby power plant and thus has access to more clean water. In addition, valuable product is extracted as sodium carbonate. In Rogaland, a biomembrane is developed that can contribute and contribute to the reduction of nature’s own CO2 emissions, increase soil fertility, reduce water consumption and adapt the surface temperature to the arable level. Test reports from Spain, Nigeria and elsewhere indicate good results, but with the Government you don’t even get to meet. Norwegian forestry industries work with increased focus on forest planting and the use of timber in Europe to increase CO2 capture. Norwegian forests, after all, bind a net of 20 million. tonnes of CO2 annually. If it had been in our CO2 accounts, we would already have done more today than the Government's promise by 2020. I am stunned that the red-green parties do not pay this attention, either in real life or in the committee setting. But I'm a little optimistic on behalf of the Progress Party and the solution we stand for, because I have registered that the Government has shown considerable ability to take a glide flight from the standpoint of the Soria Moria Declaration to what reality permits. The Soria Moria statement stated that CO2 cleaning was to be carried out on all new gas power plants from day one. This was very clearly interpreted, especially by SV. It was a matter of getting up from day one, not of being obliged to clean up once in the future. Here the government has been on a glide flight, and all the honor to the Workers' Party, which has also got the SV to cheer over that glide flight. The Progress Party supports the Government’s policy not to impose requirements for CO2 clean-up from day one. It's still a long way until the first spa roof is taken both in Mongstad and Kårstø. Thus, there is an opportunity to ensure better coordination than what has been established today, and I therefore have both faith and hope that the Government will make sense and coordinate these projects. A good example is just what happened to the Kårstø project in the past. During the budgetary procedure last year, the Progress Party stood alone and said that the progress made by the Government on Kårstø, on clean-up by 2009, was not realistic. That is why we cut the allocation, and then we said: rather spend some of the money on the Tent Goods and Mongstad. We had a lot of mouth in this room because we wouldn't bet offensively enough on this. I record in the revised budget that the government now admits that it was not possible what they said. So they give the indirect progression party right in what we said last fall. When, later in the debate, some people are likely to come up and attack the Progress Party because we are not offensive enough, I would like to remind you of what, for example, is happening. The representative Heidi Sørensen said during the Stortinget budget debate on 7 December last year, where she indicated that: ‘The party has a net CO2 clean-up that is very strong, and if the budget of the Progress Party had been implemented, we would have classed Bush as the least climate-friendly nation in the world’. That's good SV rhetoric, but now SV is pursuing exactly the same policy that they then warned against. The representative Tore Nordtun said: “We can set goals, but we also have to deliver on these goals.” [[...]] The Government ‘sets of formidable sums of CO2 handling at the gas power plant at Kårstø We contribute large sums to get CO2 cleaning in place by the end of 2009’. [[...]] This was also said by the representative of Nordtun, in the budget debate. So now we see six months later that there's no longer any of this. He has had to say the words, because the Labour Party is now running the same policy as the Progress Party said was realistic. That is why I am in favour of a further slide from the Government in the direction of the Advance Party. I wish them a welcome after. I am pleased that, in any case, the Committee has agreed on some principles in Mongstad that this was resolved in this way, so that Statoil does not have an unnecessary risk and cost of the project that is now to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e762	First, I want to acknowledge the job done by the Government to reach an agreement with the industry to develop test facilities for CO2 management. It is good that the Norwegian industry will be involved in developing solutions for the CO2 management of fossil energy related to gas power plants. Until the 2005 elections, the strategy was to expand new power generation from gas power plants without CO2 management. This was met by strong and well-founded resistance from the environmental opposition. So far there has not been an economy in gas power plants. But by developing a value chain that uses CO2 in oil extraction, by state involvement in infrastructure construction, by developing cheaper CO2 capture solutions in large volumes, along with CO2 emissions taxes, we can now see the contours of both new solutions and increased power generation based on natural gas. If we succeed in this technology development, we can also win a global market for CO2 management from gas and coal power plants. Thus environmental requirements contribute to the development of a new business. The Christian People's Party's line in gas power policy is then emerging by saying no to new concessions without CO2 management and facilitating research and development of new technologies. At the same time, with the praise of a cooperation agreement with industry, the Christian People's Party will raise the costs and the critical points. The reverse of the agreement relating to Mongstad is that Norwegian CO2 emissions will increase, at least for a period from 2010 to 2014. The increased emissions of several million tonnes of CO2 will make it even more difficult to meet the Norwegian Kyoto commitments in 2012. From a climate point of view, this is serious. With today's climate wave washing inwards, it must be allowed to say that it is rather strange that the government that aims to be a leading environmental nation in the short term is just increasing CO2 emissions. This is some of the reasons why the Christian People's Party is a bit critical of the agreement between Statoil and the state. The increased emissions from Mongstad must have the consequence that we cut CO2 emissions in other areas. It is highly reasonable for such cuts to come in Norway. The Christian People’s Party therefore expects the Government to do so when it presents its sectoral climate action plans in June. The Christian People's Party believes that the Prime Minister and the government parties have oversold Mongstad's role in the so-called lunar landing project. The Mongstad test facility will contain two to three smaller pilot plants based on known principles from other facilities in the world. In total, these installations shall handle at least 100000 tonnes of CO2 from 2010. The uncertainty in the project is related to the clear scaling of the pilots to full-scale CO2 capture of approximately 1.3 million. tonnes. The second uncertainty is related to the timing of an investment decision in 2012. The Christian People's Party records that we are already in deficit. Therefore, it is necessary that the Government obliges the contracting parties more clearly to take a full-scale CO2 management investment decision in 2012. It is the government's political responsibility to remove these uncertainties from the project. The government's funding of the Mongstad project was quite surprising. The funds earmarked for CO2 capture at Kårstø are redispatched to Mongstad. When we present the revised national budget, we see that the whole Kårstø budget disappears. It is ‘following the money’, as the left-hand political side uses as an expression, and we look at it and at practical policies, there are also priorities. In the Christian People's Party, we find that we have to trust the Government's words that the CO2 capture at Kårstø is not delayed. But that the political promises of Soria Moria have stopped shining, yes, it's easy to see. My call to the government parties and the state council is to focus on and remove those points of the agreement that create uncertainty. I shall then refer you to the proposal from the Right and the Progressive Party, Innst. S. No 208, regarding the granting of Statoil's application for an emission permit for a cogeneration plant at the oil refinery in Mongstad, for which I am the case rapporteur, and I recommend the Committee's suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e836	On 16 October 2006, it was read in the VG: ‘Can the Mongstad nightmare be transformed into a miracle, provide Norway and the world with the first large plant to capture CO2?’ At the same time, there were several other places to read that many groups threatened with Mongstad actions. But after the cooperation agreement on CO2 management in Mongstad was presented, the action groups have been dissolved, and we can today, in peace and harmony, lay the basis for a very important technology, industrial and environmental project. We have undoubtedly sat in the driver's seat to get one of the world's first really big CO2 capture plants in place with new technology. Whether it can be called a miracle or one, gets another assessment, but it is a doubtful fact that without the will of action that the Government is demonstrating in terms of investing in CO2 cleaning, there would now be political disputes in this matter. The conflicts are no longer present. It is also not that there are other actions against the project. In this sense, it might be called a little miracle with justification. In general terms, climate problems are the greatest challenge of our time, combined with the enormous inequalities that exist among the world's population, between the poor and the rich, and between those who have wealth development and those who do not. To balance the world's differences, it is quite natural that the world's energy needs will have to increase in the future. In general, such an increase will be based on fossil energy sources, precisely because fossil energy sources are the most reasonable to produce electricity from. Developments in these countries have no choice but to choose a more expensive yet cleaner energy solution without our help and assistance. In that perspective, the effort to generate new clean-up technologies has been crucial to achieving a global impact in order to clean the CO2 emissions from fossil energy sources around the world. The project therefore involves the conversion of clean-up technology into coal-fired power stations and other industrial emissions. The current technology cycle in Mongstad will be crucial to provide new clean-up methods that reduce costs and increase energy efficiency. Today, when the Storting decides to set up a state-owned company to manage the state's interests in CO2 management, we are in a way in the right direction. So it's like the work's already started. The Government has entered into a contract between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and Grenland Group Technology on the assignment of project director of the CO2 cleaning plant at Kårstø. This will allow for the fastest possible cleaning of the gas power plant under construction in Kårstø, but in addition it is essential that the various CO2 management projects be coordinated as best as possible, which many have been concerned about. From the Labour Party, I think this is an incredibly important point. We are therefore pleased that the task as project manager is being transferred to the new state enterprise that can be established today. The current commitment to CO2 management aims to put Norway in a leading technological and industrial position. Such a position can contribute to a global impact, as I said, on the management of fossil energy sources, and that is where the focus needs to be focused. So it's a pleasure that a total accumulation is behind this concrete matter. It is agreed that the State will contribute to research and development in order to achieve a CO2 value chain, including CO2 clean-up, CO2 management, CO2 transport and CO2 injection. There is an agreement on the timescale for full-scale cleaning. There is agreement on the responsibility of the State and Statoil. There is agreement on the decision and no divergent proposals in this case. And there's a broad consensus that Mongstad is a good venue for testing and developing technology. There is a broad consensus that this is a demanding and costly task, but at the same time an important task and an important project. That consensus I think there's reason to be satisfied with. It is also important for Norwegian industry, within the framework of EEA legislation, to be involved and given challenges in the development of the project. An important basis for success, I think, is that there are different actors involved in the project. Various actors may be the most important engine for progress in the project. The obligations contained in the contract include this positive and very important. Now that we are starting this work and the possibilities are gradually coming to the table, I am also convinced that the project will drive and motivate a wide range of research and development efforts in this area. In fact, we already have a lot of skills that can be used today. As a little reflection: I was introduced several years ago by a small but strong technology environment in Grenland, an environment called GassTEK, for the fantastic scenario of using bioenergy as the energy source for the actual capture process. That time it was really a remote scenario. But now Aker Kværner with 'Just Catch' has taken this into his project. We know that there are many environments of competence dealing with the CO2 problem. We also know, not least through Aker Kværner's 'Just Catch' project, that the industrial environment will be involved in various CO2 projects. I think that's positive. We have therefore, through the examination of this matter, said in plain language that we want the Government to facilitate the development of further projects for CO2 management, where technology development, demonstration and qualification of Norwegian technology can start rapidly. Kårstø is apparently one such arena, but there are several. I have full confidence that the Minister of Oil and Energy will give priority to the follow-up to this and choose good opportunities for – let's say – the qualification of Norwegian technology, where the industry can get arenas. It is important to take into account that Norwegian competence has solved the most unimaginable operations. This is what we see in offshore business every day. What was impossible a few years ago is now fully possible, and not least profitable. One good example is how industry solved the challenges associated with the Kristin platform. Here was the temperature of the gas and pressure a challenge that made the field invincible just a few years ago, but the technology and expertise solved it. Now they take up gas with a temperature of 170 degrees and high pressure. The platform is six to seven kilometres away from the actual field. The wells are long high angle wells, which pass horizontally through the reservoir. And the angle of the drilling is now between 75 and 88 degrees. Yes, it's the highest angle ever drilled from a floating platform. This is just one of many evidences that knowledge and technology development are actually happening daily, as long as we believe it. I don't think any problem is impossible to solve, only there is will and profitability behind it. So is this project, a project that contains more benefits. It is a good energy measure, it is a good additional measure, it is a good industrial measure and not least it is a good and very important environmental action. In this project, the environmental and climate motivation should be far beyond the economic perspectives of the case. I think it's important to underline that. Then it's kind of wrong what the Progress Party says, that they've been sitting in the driver's seat for the process that's now here. In fact, this is not a reality. The progress party has never, and would never, started anything in order to achieve CO2 management at gas power plants in Norway, nor any technology development. It's going to be a speck, with respect to reporting, but I'm glad they're here now, and that we have a total mass. If we have enough faith and will to bet so that we succeed, then we will take an important step to reduce the climate problems. And then, to use the moon terminology that Ketil Solvik-Olsen called for initially, we have taken a great and important step for humanity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e928	I am pleased that there are prospects for this debate today. The reason why CO2 is on the agenda is that a major and challenging climate change issue is being faced globally. If greenhouse gas emissions are not reduced in the future, the average soil temperature may increase by as much as 6 degrees in the worst case in this century. At the same time, it has that dimension that there are an incredible number of people who lack electricity in the world. Unlike 2 billion people don't have access to power. How, then, are we going to be able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and at the same time supply electricity to those who don't have it? Then – and I mean – this with CO2 management, i.e. taking out CO2 and reinjecting it somewhere, is an important solution, at least as a bridge builder between a society that relies a lot on fossil fuels, almost 80 p.m., and a society that relies more on renewable energy. As a bridge builder, gas is important in itself, says the International Energy Agency. Had a coal-fired power plant in China been replaced by a gas-fired power plant based on Sibir gas, CO2 emissions would have been halved. Then you can further reduce emissions by handling CO2 and reinjecting it. It's going to be 20 pst. CO2 out anyway, but of course it's much better than the alternative, and like this bridge, CO2 management is very forward-looking. I therefore think it is good that the government is now paying as much on CO2 management as it does, but I also believe that you have to admit that this is very demanding. In the case of gas power stations, less CO2 is available than is the case in the case of coal-fired power stations, so that there is also a demanding additional dimension in itself. The Prime Minister said in his New Year speech that this is a moon landing. I agree with the Prime Minister that handling CO2 is incredibly important, but in the proposition the Government says: ‘CO2 management at Mongstad will be one of several international projects related to the establishment of CO2 management solutions’.» Norway is not alone in this, fortunately. There's a lot of people who've been doing this for quite a while. This project at Mongstad, in addition to the project at Kårstø, is therefore one of several projects. What also shows that this is very demanding is what we now experience at Kårstø. There was a high flagging last year in connection with the project being launched. The money was granted. The right voted for the half billion that was set aside in the budget, but I noticed that there were quite a number of ironic whips to the Progress Party, because they did not vote for it. They had certain reservations as to whether it was feasible to keep the progress plan that the Government had set up. Now it turned out that the propulsion plan was not maintained. It is important that we now continue to work on this, but I also think it is important for the posterity that we do not work faster than that we have full control of the cost side of it, and so that it does not evolve afterwards into a project that is highly debated because it has not been well enough investigated, that we have not given the Department and the Government and those who are going to do this, enough time to work. Actually, I don't criticize the Council of State for spending time here. I think that makes sense, because you don't have to bother with CO2 management because you're busy pushing this forward for an extra month or two. In addition, I have been – and am – concerned that this also needs to be given jobs again in Norway. Taking CO2 off, this — like the Norwegian hydropower and the Norwegian oil and gas industry — could be a huge potential for future jobs. So the research and development bit of it is incredibly important. If the Council of State can also ensure that Norwegian environments can be relevant at Kårstø, I think it would be very good. In fact, I live with the fact that it takes a little longer. If you are going to spend SEK 7 billion – that’s an extremely large amount of money, and when you’ve been sitting at budget conferences in a government, you know that it’s not every day a government council gets to spend DKK 7 billion on the table, over a few years – I think it’ll be very regrettable if Norway doesn’t get the benefits, because this is a research and development project, it’s an industrial contract that can develop into. In fact, I trust that we are now discussing this thoroughly in the government, that we are not being pushed by more short-term demands that this should preferably happen yesterday. With regard to the Mongstad project, it is probably easier to include Norwegian industry, but I have noticed that on the Tjeldbergodden there are no Norwegian companies that are now prequalified through Statoil and Shell's project there. It is not as good as it is that we now provide a CO2 management. Of course, we also need to look at the costs of this in relation to other measures that are relevant. They talk about a cost of action, or a cost of handling, of about NOK 700-2 000 per year. tonnes of CO2 by allowing the Kårstø plant to run for quite a number of hours. If there are fewer hours, the cost of action is even higher. Then you really get perspective on this, and that's when you also realize that in many ways it's a R & D project. It is then particularly important that the ring-effects become high and that they have a transfer value to other environments as well. If this is being handled correctly, if you spend the time you need, listen to the NVE report, don't be pressurised to do something rash, I think this could be Norway's contribution as an oil and gas nation to bringing down greenhouse gas emissions elsewhere in the world. If we take a big cost here, there's no doubt about it. But I also think that's the price we now have to pay for the adventurous revenues we have, related to oil and gas. But of course it cannot be used as an argument in all areas. If we first decide that this should be an area, we have to bet on it completely. But I just have to repeat that I hope the Council of State is slow about these questions, so that both the directorate and the civil service are allowed to ensure that this is also done in a technically good way, even if it is a very new area. Then we're going to hope that in twenty years' time, when the story is going to be written, we're going to say about these decisions that Norway was early in introducing technology for CO2 management and reinjection, that this had transferable value, and that this, together with gassetting in general, helped bring down the CO2 emissions – and that, however, it had come up with the electricity that was needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1014	I thought it was good for us today to have a consensus on this gigantic project. We also listened to the news today that the Norwegian people now want a stronger effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Most people are at stake with the Government and think that the measures also have to be done at home, and it's probably just the party for the most people who aren't with the most people. It is a good thing to be involved in the further debate. I want to rip up a little bit in history against greenhouse gas emissions on a Norwegian base. It is true that the CO2 tax that we have had and that several of the parties, not least the Progress Party, have tried to cut on many occasions, has helped Norway to face up to environmental technology offshore. The project on Sleipner, where one of them separates CO2 and deposits it in the Uzzirabassenget, is an example of this. It is a technology development that has received international prices because we have made demands, and because we have had high charges. That is why, in cooperation with Statoil, new projects need to be developed that do something nationally, but also through technological advances that at Sleipner can help us to do a lot more with global emissions. Then I would remind them from the Left and Christian People's Party who complain at the pace when it comes to progress in this matter, that in the previous period a snowy white was built out, which escapes about. 1 million tonnes of CO2. Christian People's Party and Left – and Børge Burnde – did not make a single demand for snow white cleaning. Now that they're in opposition, they've started checking to tell us to do it. I thought, of course, that we should focus on Snow White too, but one should not forget its own history when one today criticises the Government, for example. when it relates to Kårstø and the tempo there. Hopefully, SV could think of a much faster pace than we've been able to get, but this is what we can do in collaboration with Statoil. That's how far we got this time. Already three to four years ago, SV proposed that one in the Grane field and Kristin field build offshore CO2-free gas power plants to use the CO2 as pressure support and to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. No support for it at that time. So it's been a couple of years. But Hydro said at the time that the cost of doing this in the Grane field would be about. $1.5 billion more. That means that what we're doing today, it could have been faster, we could have pushed forward earlier, but it hasn't been our will for this before. But that will is now present by that we have a red-green government that actually does something. I am pleased that the thinking that, among other things, SV has, along with Bellona, of course, and many others for many years, about value chain, now really come up and go. I'm glad we're getting research and development in place, companies, so that it's progressing in it, and so that we get the win-win situation that, among other things. SV has pointed out for several years to use the CO2 as a pressure support, thereby reducing CO2 emissions while increasing the income of the country. That's good. It is good that also the Progress Party, which now claims that everyone else comes after, joins the good company in this matter. And then we hope they do what most people do, and that's when the government's policy ends at home, so that we can do something at home, too, with the support of the Progress Party. It would have been interesting, I thought, if Ketil Solvik-Olsen and others from the Progress Party were part of the "people most" team in this case. Finally, I would like to say that in the debate on gas power plants, we must not forget that the measures that the Government has started and is working on when it comes to new renewable energy, energy efficiency – and a number of measures that have not been associated with CO2 – must also be taken into account. 15 years of gas power debate has led to a time-consuming focus on these issues. In this situation, the Energy and Environment Committee must not forget the many things you do and can do in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1058	There is a consensus on this project – a concerted growth is taking place today. It's important, and it's good, because it gives its own weight to the way forward, and because you gather around very important goals. In the large picture, I think this is very interesting because there is a significant technology development perspective in the case. Not least in the global context, this is very exciting and can become one of several crucial strategies for achieving our global goals and commitments. I would also like to point out the fact that Norway has a special responsibility in this field to go ahead. There are several who have been involved in the revenues we have from petroleum exports. They're big, and they're going to be big in the foreseeable future. Last year we had NOK 357 billion in direct income to the state – in the national economy significantly more. We soon have NOK 2 000 billion in the pension fund, and yet the government estimates are that we haven't made more than a third of the total resources. If that's 500, 600, or 700 million. kr in the first place or 1, 2 or 3 billion kr to get this project going, becomes in such a perspective of secondary importance. Then I want to say that there has not always been an agreement on this project, and it is not that it is by chance that this project has now come to where it is today. There are some people who have to go ahead, some who have to set the standard, and there are some who have to put the framework conditions in order for this to happen. The right-hand side says that this is important, that they vote for it, and that they support it. At the same time, they stress that they want to move on with further gas generation in Norway without imposing requirements for purification. I want to challenge the Right if they think it's consistent that on the one hand they say that they support the project, the idea behind the project, and on the other hand they don't intend to demand this from other projects. Of course, then, there will always be an excuse not to do so, not to bring out the technology, not to drive society and development forward in the direction we want. In this area, as in very many others, we have seen that Norwegian industry development and value creation have benefited from strict demands, and that the state has pointed further to the environmental and energy side. There will always be good reasons to wait. What's my conclusion here is that if you always put emphasis on the arguments to wait, you won't bring the world forward. The Christian People's Party and the Left, the old government partners, on their side, are very disappointed with the time perspective that we draw in this matter. I think that they have little reason to be, especially in the light of what they did in the last government period, where, unlike us, they gave permission to build a new gas power plant on Snow White with 1 million tonnes of CO2 in emissions – about the same size as on Kårstø. Now they're rolling over to the late progress of this project. No project was started during the previous Bondevik administration. No attempt was made. Now we're going ahead, we're setting the standard. I therefore think it is very little shy of these two parties to be as critical to the progress as they are. The Progress Party is on its side trying to play a role in climate policy. I think they are doing that relatively poorly, simply because they are completely lacking credibility on this issue. One must start by recognizing that this is a problem, that it is man-made, and that we have to do something in Norway before the objections weigh very heavily. Of course, this is a demanding project. Of course, you will face challenges in the future. But it's basically the same story that Norwegian petroleum activity has always been imprinted on. There have been major challenges. This has been resolved in turn. One day, one of the most environmentally friendly, competitive and resource efficient oil extraction sectors in the world. Then I want to end by saying that the focus on Norwegian industry and industrial development is also very important on the technology side. But there too, we now see that Aker Kværner’s ‘Just Catch’ has come more on the field after they saw that they were serious about this being done in time. It shows that you need a framework and that you need progress to make this happen, and that's what we're doing here. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1078	One of the clearest pictures from the time the Soria Moria declaration was presented and was finished was an enthusiastic Kristin Halvorsen who said that many years of gas power struggle is now over. She built it on two elements of the Soria Moria Declaration. It says that the gas power plant at Kårstø was to be cleaned ‘in 2009’. The second element was that no new concessions were to be granted for gas power plants without requirements for cleaning from day one. Now we know that the Soria Moria statement was poor quality assurance, and that the points I refer to were primarily formulated to solve a political crowd there and then, and were not part of a strategy to blow off many years of gas power struggle. Now we know that there will be no cleaning at Kårstø in 2009. We don't know when there's a clean-up on Kårstø. It describes complex technical aspects and a demanding cost picture. We also know that the new concession granted for gas power plants in Mongstad does not require cleaning from day one, as the government parties promised without reservation. We don't know when there will be cleaning in Mongstad either. We know that the Government and its partners will take a decision in 2012 and that both complications in relation to the EEA, cost and technical aspects can lead to the termination of the agreement and that there is no way to achieve what is currently under control. The left believes that the permission to build gas power plants on Mongstad without a requirement to clean from day one should not have been given. For us, the uncertainty is linked to the further process too much. It is a pathetic situation that when the country's Environment Minister is asked what she will do to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, she says that yes, it is working to clean up a gas power plant that is not yet built and will therefore carry large, increased emissions for several years — perhaps many years. The left supports, as the matter now stands, the proposals that are on the table, in order to get a solution as quickly as possible at Mongstad. We want to be a proponent for the necessary funds to be set aside, in order to reach the goal as quickly as possible once the concession has been granted. We also see that this project can have a positive impact on other projects both domestically and abroad. It is an important project to manage CO2 at gas power plants, but it is not a unique project. When the Prime Minister and his people arrive at the moon with this project, he may risk that there are relatively people there, because they work along the same lines in many countries, and you have come as far and to some extent longer than you have done in Norway. When adding to increased emissions in Kårstø, compensatory measures should be provided with a high degree of force to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Here, then, we see that, on the contrary, Norway maintains a very poor support system for renewable energy production, so that exciting projects are not realised and moved out of the country. We also see the need to take action to contribute to other sectors. In conclusion, I would like to comment on what the representative of Langeland was concerned about, namely the story. Langeland is fundamentally wrong. The previous government said in the Sem statement that there would be no new gas power concessions without a requirement for cleaning from day one. So he based the Snow White expansion that de facto was decided by the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party, and that was only for formal decision. It was written in the Sem statement. It was followed. The difference with today's government is that there were clear wordings about Kårstø and Mongstad – which are not followed. And having a lifting break in such a vital area as this clearly distinguishes between today's government and the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1098	To the previous speaker, I would say that there are many who are busy making their own version of the story. But leave it. In its reference scenario, the International Energy Agency estimates that world energy demand will double by 2030. As has already been said, fossil fuels will cover over 80 pst. of the global energy demand at this time. The result is that global CO2 emissions could increase by a total of 14 billion tonnes from 2004 levels. This clearly tells us that we need to find global solutions that take into account both the expected growth in energy demand and climate problems. With our natural resources and our advantage as a rich nation, we have a unique opportunity and also a responsibility to contribute to the continued development of cleanest energy production. Today, our energy supply consists mainly of hydropower. Now we're also going to use more gas power, and this government is going to have to clean emissions from gas power. A strong commitment to technological development and measures to reduce CO2 management costs would enable CO2 capture and storage to become a climate action with wide international application. The ambitions for developing CO2 management technologies in Mongstad are challenging, as already said, but it is also very important in both a national and a global perspective. In the work currently being carried out by the Government, a technology company shall be established in Mongstad to own and operate CO2 capture test facilities. The aim is to develop solutions to reduce costs and technical and economic risks associated with full scale CO2 capture. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is in the process of both Norwegian and international companies with a view to establishing formal cooperation during June. For the period until the formal establishment of the technology company and the investment decision of the test facility scheduled for January of next year, the parties shall, inter alia,: prepare technical solutions and budget for the test centre. The start-up of the test facility shall take place in 2010. The state and a commercial company have never previously entered into a similar partnership to what we are now doing in Mongstad. By the first quarter of 2009, the State and Statoil shall establish an agreement on the implementation of full scale CO2 cleaning. The investment decision shall be taken during 2012. I appreciate the Committee's support for the proposed approach. International cooperation in Mongstad is one of several exciting projects in CO2 management. Increased attention to the capture and storage of CO2 is positive. It is gratifying to observe the work also done in the EU to put in place several large pilot plants. I am also pleased that the Norwegian industry wants to contribute to the development of improved technology for the capture of CO2. It is an important objective of the Government to further develop Norwegian competence so that Norway can become a leader in CO2 management. The establishment of a technology company in Mongstad could provide good opportunities for Norwegian industry. Through activity on Sleipner and Snow White, Norway already has significant competence in CO2 management. Furthermore, the commitment to CO2 management contributes to technological and industrial development for Norwegian industry. During 2005 and 2006, Gassnova followed up important initiatives from, among others: Aker Kværner, Sargas and SINTEF with financial resources. Finally, I would like to stress that the Government is committed to seeing the CO2 management projects in the context, not only in terms of the transport and deposit of CO2 but also in terms of the technology development to take place. In this context, the possible establishment of several test facilities will also be considered. It is the Government's ambition that we should contribute to the development of a forward-looking technology that should be applied far wider than a few gas power projects in Norway, while also aiming to facilitate new industrial activity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1167	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1170	I noticed the last time the Council of State said that he wanted to include Norwegian industry. A race has been set up where Kårstø will be fully scaled by 2012, while Mongstad will not be cleaned until 2014. The industry itself points out that this time horizon is wrong if the Norwegian industry is to be included as an active competitor. By cleaning Kårstø in 2012, you will subsidize foreign technology and give it a head start. How does this relate to what the Council of State said to stimulate Norwegian industry? It is nice that it happens at Mongstad in 2014, but it does little for Norwegian industry in global competition if the same government has subsidized the competitors two years earlier. Does this mean that the Government is willing to look at the whole, so that Norwegian industry is actually brought into both pilot development and full-scale cleaning? Or does the Government maintain that 2012 will apply to Kårstø, even if it means only foreign technology on Kårstø?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1179	As I said in my main post, the Government is concerned to see these projects in the context. We are also committed to contributing to the development of Norwegian technology and industry in this area. It is not relevant, as the representative said, to subsidize foreign technology. In any agreement, whether in the case of Mongstad or Kårstø, deliveries are to be made on commercial terms and there is no question of subsidising foreign enterprises in this context. We are now engaged in a very comprehensive effort to establish the technology company and bring in various parties to participate in this cooperation, both Norwegian and international companies. It will be necessary to achieve the best possible technology development in the future, while at the same time achieving the goals we have set ourselves at Kårstø and Mongstad. As I underlined in my article, this is a demanding thing to do. But the goal of contributing to the development of Norwegian technology is firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1186	First, I have to agree with the perspective of the oil and energy minister in his post, that 80 pst. the energy needs of the world are covered by fossil fuels and the need to bridge to a more renewable energy society. CO2 management and storage, together with the use of natural gas, are important. Norway’s ability to contribute constructively to its development is important. It is also essential that this does not become a purely gift package for those who sit with existing technology, such as Mitsubishi and Fluor. There are excellent companies, but it is also important for Norwegian actors to be involved. What is also crucial is that the Ministry of Oil and Energy spends the necessary time so that there are no large exceedances, à la – formerly – Mongstad. My question to the Council of State, which has the constitutional responsibility for this, is: does he feel completely convinced and calm in relation to the cost analyses now available and that there will be no great exceedances in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1200	I think it is important to remember that the cost analyses that are available now are done on the basis that we have in order to assess costs at this point in time. So there is no tender. So, of course, the assessments that have been made are marked by the uncertainty that lies in the very fact. It is not possible for me today to determine what the final costs will be. It is also underlined in the documents that Stortinget has received. As I have already said, it is a goal for the Government that Norwegian industry should also be able to participate in this. We will use the time needed to ensure a good and sound project implementation, so that we can sufficiently involve Norwegian industry. The project in Norway is followed with great interest by others. It's not the only project in the world, but we're out early. The European Commission says that Norway can become a model for others. Therefore, it is important that we do this in such a way that we get a good implementation, so that we do not put the work on CO2 management back in time because we do not carry out the project in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1212	In his speech, the Council of State said that he was pleased that the Stortinget supported the proposed approach in relation to an investment decision in 2012. As I underlined in my statement, it is important to remove the uncertainty that exists in order to be able to make decisions in 2012. Some of this uncertainty is precisely the upscaling of technology. We know that we're going to start cleaning 100,000 tonnes at two to three different test facilities, and then we're going up to 1.3 million tonnes – and that's going to happen in four years. The Council of State knows from previous posts that I have had, that I have a great commitment to this, and my challenge to the Council of State is: how does the Council of State see that it is possible to scale this up in four years, when our technology environments say that you can only scale it up three times?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1221	This is an agreement concluded with the largest industrial company in the Nordic region, which has 40 years of experience with large projects on Norwegian pedestal – which is part of this agreement that sets such a date. In fact, I have great faith in Statoil's knowledge and ability to implement this kind of project. We are also now negotiating with both Norwegian and international companies that will be involved in this technology development work that we are going to do in the future, and these companies are also part of Phase 1 of the premises contained in the contract between the State and Statoil. Of course, things may arise along the way, for it is, as the representative stressed, a large and complicated project, but I have the confidence in Statoil that they would not have made a run like this if they did not think it was proper. On our side, we believe that this is possible and sensible, and we are working on that schedule.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1228	The Prime Minister has assured Stortinget on a number of occasions that the Sem declaration will be honoured point by point. Now we know about what we are discussing today, that it is not being implemented in two important areas: in the case of Kårstø cleaning and cleaning of the Mongstad gas power station from day one. It might have been useful to hear the views of the Council of State because of the breaking of these two promises. Is it due to the fact that the Soria-Moria-lifts in this area are not sincere or because they are not properly professionally assessed? Since the Council of State also asked questions about my history, will I challenge him to know at what point the previous government broke with the Sem declaration when it came to gas power policy? Now I have documented two points in which today's government is breaking its policy, and it could be enlightening to find out in which areas of the gas power policy the previous government broke with the Sem declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1235	Meg acquaintance has never guaranteed the Prime Minister to comply with the Sem declaration. There was probably a job that the previous government should have done. It's a completely different statement this government is working from. With regard to the history, I would like to remind the representative Kvassheim that the concession at Kårstø was given before the previous government joined, but the previous government had thus had the opportunity to start work on CO2 management at Kårstø. Then we might have been able to do it in 2009. This power plant will start in 2007. It did not seem to worry the previous government significantly that we got several years without cleaning. When you point out that it was the Stoltenberg I government that made the premise for Snow White, is to the extent right, but why didn't the previous government start work to get CO2 management on Snow White? So I have to say, with all due respect, that one should sweep for one's own door before celebrating for others in this context. That is what I referred to in my line on history.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1250	Let me first say that the government has a very bad sopelime, because Gunnar Kvassheim is quite right that the previous government started some CO2 technology development project. And when this government is unable to get CO2 cleaning on Kårstø during its government period, there's no reason to believe that an addition could conjure up a technology in the last period – the research is, after all, going forward. It's not like you're inventing something in 2005 as a forgetter in 2007. It's the other way around. But I want to go back to my question, which I did not get an answer to. The first full-scale installations for CO2 clean-up shall be on Kårstø – according to government policy. So one says that one should get with Norwegian industry – yes, in Mongstad it is very nice in 2014, but my point was that if one does this and is going to have foreign industry into 2012, Norwegian industry itself says it will destroy the competitive opportunities. This does not help to ensure that the Norwegian Government's aim is to involve Norwegian industry as much as possible, when the government's instruments indicate that there are foreign competitors running away with the gain. Can the Councils comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1266	Firstly, I would recommend the representative to take a look at the previous government budget for the four years and see what work and commitment was done in relation to the management of CO2. With regard to the question of inclusion of Norwegian industry, I do not in any way reject the fact that it can be relevant to include Norwegian industry also in Kårstø. As I said in my main post: We do not exclude that there will be more than one test plant. So it's an objective to do this, but I also want to remind the representative that it is actually not possible to point to a single company and say that it is this company that is going to participate in a project that is subject to certain state aid rules. We want to facilitate, as far as possible, the participation of Norwegian industry in these projects, but we also have certain rules and guidelines to deal with, and we work within them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1277	The cord shift is over. The requested alternate of Oslo Aud Kvalbein has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1285	In many ways this is a historic day – not only the decision we make about CO2, but it is also historic that we have such a broad and good attitude from the Committee. As the rapporteur said, when one sees the totality and proposals for decisions that we are invited to adopt today, there is unanimity on the part of the committee, and so it will also be in the Grand Chamber when final decisions are taken. It's a unique case, because there's a cooperation agreement on the management of CO2 in Mongstad, and it's in many ways a breakthrough. Here we set out how we will develop one of the largest projects in Norway in the future in an environmental perspective and seize a cooperation agreement between the state and a commercial company, to get it into the right framework. I also think it is very important that we outline objectives. We have goals, and the Government delivers in relation to these goals. It's unique. I noticed what Kvassheim said when he tried to roll over the Soria Moria statement. – I think he used the Sem statement a little wrong too. We've been on our way for two years, and here's a project. We are now actively beginning to deliver, and the state is actively joining in. We agree because we are facing one of the greatest challenges on the environment: dealing with CO2. The management of CO2 must be seen not only from a national perspective but from an international perspective to the highest degree. That's why this project is being noticed in Europe and elsewhere. Because we're now in the driver's seat. We can get to a forward-looking project – we can't just do it, but we can do it. We can thus put our trust in this in the future in time. I also think it is important for Norway as a large export nation of fossil fuels that we take both ethical and moral responsibility by putting ourselves in the driving position in this area. When I say we deliver, there's been a lot of talk about budget in this context. But also in the last budget, in the current year, and also what has now been revised, we are really turning the budgets in the direction we want them to get these projects in place as early as possible. So you can trust the authorities and we can assume commitments here, both in research and in development. I must also say that there is a paradox in this matter. Let me quote from the last page of the setting, where a large minority of the committee says: ‘and that the Government must actively work to sell its share. [[...]] Increased private ownership will contribute to quality assurance that the technical and technological choices made will be as adapted as possible to a future export market for CO2 clean-up plants.’;» I have to say that I am a little curious about the wording used here by the opposition, that we are signaling that we should reduce the state's involvement in this matter, that we should commercialise the maximum and waive state responsibility. We're going to get it out on the market, the market is going to handle it. No, we don't. It's important that the state sits here in the driver's seat and shows way with a company. Such an agreement therefore requires power. In the end, I miss the environmental perspective of the debate. As the Council of State was involved, we expect – and all research shows – that over 80 pst. by the global energy demand in 2030 will be covered by fossil fuels! I think that's the most important thing. It's actually in this perspective that we need to see what we're doing -- when we see the big challenges we're facing in dealing with the emissions of CO2 in the world. We have to have more of these projects in place. We need Norwegian technology into such projects to develop this new future that we take the first step in many ways with the decisions we are making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1321	This is a day of joy. The decision on CO2 treatment in Mongstad is like a Kinderegg – one that meets several wishes at once: a safe workplaces and the industrial environment in Mongstad, a contribution to providing Norway with a new, leading environmental technology, a collection and capture from Norway's largest CO2 source, a used gas for energy production and thus reducing import needs, a basis for using CO2 as pressure support for oil production, and for once, a mass increase is behind a major and important energy and environmental policy commitment – just at a slightly different level of enthusiasm. This is very important for the development of future Norway and hopefully also for the fight against global emissions. This item marks the start of a new era in Norwegian industrial history, but it also marks a continuation. Through the concession to the CHP plant at Mongstad, there is also a green light for upgrading the refinery at Mongstad. This is the most important job in North Hordland. Now this workplace is secure for many decades to come. The Mongstad refinery is also one of the most important further processing plants for Norwegian oil. In Mongstad, a crude oil turns into a higher value oil product. Thus, Norwegian society and the Norwegian State receive large revenues. The Mongstad refinery is today Norway's largest CO2 emission source. The refinery is also one of Norway's largest energy users and actually uses as much energy as Oslo City. The technology that was used when Mongstad was built was very little effective compared to the technology that exists today. Energy use and emissions per year produced device is very high. It is therefore absolutely necessary to upgrade the refinery at Mongstad. A refinery primarily needs heat. Today, a lot of oil is used to create this heat. With the upgrade that is about to take place, a few will dramatically improve energy efficiency and emissions per year. device will go down. The CHP plant is absolutely crucial to this upgrading of Mongstad. A no to this work is therefore yes to inefficiency and unnecessary emissions at Mongstad in the future. The alternative to upgrading Mongstad would have been a gradual decline. Statoil would probably also have invested in an EU country if investment in Mongstad had not been possible. By then, great value creation had been moved abroad. If the Mongstad plant had been upgraded in the EU, one would in addition receive tens of millions of environmental support even before CO2 clean-up. The force coming from the heat plant in Mongstad should be used to drive the Troll field as planned. As pressure falls, large compressors are needed to bring the gas to the market. When all compressors are in place, this draws the same amount of current as the one currently used in Bergen City. This stream does not exist in the current region. Large transmission cables through Hardanger and to the central network are therefore planned. However, power is not available in the central network in a normal year. Therefore, this force must be imported. A power plant in Mongstad will postpone this need. Natural interference and import needs are greatly reduced. The plans for CO2 capture make a good environmental project even better. It is only right and reasonable that one of the world's richest countries is making an effort to bring down CO2 emissions, and not least that we are using large resources on new technologies. Mongstad is important to Norway and our commitments, but it is even more important in an international context. A new coal power plant is being built in China every four days, and if we can contribute new technologies that can clean them up, it's far more important than the emission reductions that we can achieve in Norway. Unfortunately, oil production in Norway is on its way down. It is therefore important that we develop new technologies that can also increase the rate of extraction and the lifetime of Norwegian oilfields. It is very positive if one can solve an environmental problem while we can improve the extraction of Norwegian oil. After listening to the debate today, I think more should have hit their chests and our pride in what they are now participating in. I think I'm going to end up looking at Jens Book-Jensen, who said, "It's okay to be gentle."
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1361	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1364	Young people have said that for a long time. They have made a formidable effort to make us understand that the durability date of today's climate is about to go out. In the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, 2,500 scientists have come to an agreed conclusion. With over 90 pst. security can now determine that anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions generate global warming. The 20 hottest years ever measured have been in the last 25 years. Not recognizing the zeal of young people, and the competence of researchers, is turning their backs on the future. The government's commitment to the environment is a recognition of the efforts of environmental scientists and stakeholders – from Blekulf to the environmental detective, from Bellona and Nature and Youth to the Swedish Federation of Nature Conservation, from the AUF to the SSB. To move forward in the fight for sustainable development, we need the ability to find solutions globally, and we need the ability to find solutions that do not block the use of new technologies, but that are just challenging our people at schools, at universities, at colleges, and in companies to think new, to think further, to go ahead. The government's environmental effort bottoms up believing that we don't have to say no to development, but that we can solve challenges using new technology, using progress. And we've been supported for that. Where there has been a lack of action in Norway for years, the Government is taking historical action. Where there has been a standstill, there is now movement, and where there has been a conflict, there is now consensus. Norway shall be a leading country. We're going to make a significant effort to bring down emissions in our own country. And we're going to make a significant effort to contribute to reducing emissions in other countries. Both are important. We need to be able to solve the world's energy challenges in a way that does not exacerbate the climate. At home there are several measures to be implemented, and today is the day to confirm that we are going to have a full scale treatment plant for CO2 from the gas power plant in Mongstad. Now, when we spend billions of dollars on developing this technology in Mongstad, it's a lot more than an industrial project, it's a giant knowledge project and environmental project. The state takes this bill because we think the gain is going to be so big if we reach the goals we've set. We know that it is possible to clean CO2. However, technology is not yet ready to clean full-scale CO2 at gas power plants and make it profitable. We have set ourselves the goal of further developing this technology. A lot is going on in several countries, but with the Mongstad project, Norway is at the forefront of putting in place technology that can make cleaning profitable on a large-scale plant. No one else has done this yet. Only when it becomes cheaper to clean CO2 emissions than to buy allowances will we get the breakthrough needed to bring down greenhouse gas emissions globally. We are proud that the Mongstad project is now on its way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1402	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five. [[See page 3105]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1418	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1427	The proposal by the representatives of Sponheim, Skjelstad, Ludvigsen and Kongshaug contains four proposals. The first is that you should be able to get information about your products on the Internet; the second is that you should be able to sell bottles of locally produced alcoholic beverages as sides. The third concerns an automatic right of sale through the pole, and the fourth concerns the exemption from the alcohol charge for the first 4000 litres produced. The proposal by the four representatives mentioned above goes further than when the Minister of Agriculture and Food of the Left held the Minister of Agriculture and Food during the previous enlargement period. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, points out that former Minister of Agriculture and Food Lars Sponheim did not propose or take any initiative to allow local producers to sell alcoholic beverages in their own activities beyond the donation. One reason for this is that giving such an opening will, of course, challenge the wine monopoly system. A larger majority, all lots other than the Advance Party, emphasises that it is not desirable to exempt the sale of locally produced products with more than 4,75 % vol. alcohol from the wine monopoly. Another majority, the government parties and the Christian People's Party, do not support the proposal for product information on the Internet for local producers. So the ban on advertising is still in place. The alcohol law sets the limit for those who sell alcohol online, so it's the wine monopoly. With regard to the proposal for the right to sell automatically locally produced pages on the pole, the majority, all except the Party of Advances, emphasises that no products should be exempted from the quality requirements of the Vinmonopole. So to the charging system, which is an alcohol policy tool. Exempting the first 4000 litres would lead to discrimination. It would distort competition with other alcoholic beverages of the same alcoholic strength and would therefore not have the agreement of the Committee. So to a note from the Progress Party and the Left that the Centre Party does not show a particular willingness to facilitate small-scale nutrient development in rural areas related to agricultural property. I believe that this claim falls on its own unfairness. The starting point is – and it is accepted and accepted – that alcohol is a product to be treated differently from other products. The proposal as it stands from the Left will break the alcohol policy line which guarantees the monopoly system, which is therefore an important alcohol policy instrument on which there is indeed a great deal of consensus in this Chamber. But it is allowed to produce alcohol and to give alcohol with an extended municipal grant, while the sale of bottles is not allowed. Therefore, the majority, consisting of the Government Parties and the Right, asks the Government to ‘assess changes in the alcohol law in which self-produced products containing up to 4,75 % by volume may be sold by way of extended detailed turnover permits in relation to the production site under specified conditions and return to the Stortinget with any legislative amendments’. This is possible without challenging the wine monopoly system, and it will provide producers with an opportunity to sell which they do not currently have. So it's technically possible, and it's done in many ways, to dealcoholize a product to a lower alcoholic strength, and many would think that the product could be presented in a proper way with a lower alcohol content. It is also important to stress that if you have a government production permit, local producers can use wholesale sales of their products. However, retail sales where the goods have an alcoholic strength by volume above 4.75 suggest that the majority should continue to be made through the Wine Monopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1450	What previous governments have done does not deprive new governments of the opportunity to adopt anything else. The local production of food and drink based on local raw materials is important, and a proper strategy for Norwegian agriculture is important, not least in view of the challenges facing Norwegian agriculture in relation to the WTO agreement and globalisation where it becomes more important and important to provide Norwegian production, distribution and serving framework conditions that do not deprive farmers of the opportunity to compete in a level playing field with the rest of Europe. We turn around and look at what is usual practice, with farm tourism, small-scale production and sales, Norway is then at those degrees on the sideline, and there are bad signals the government here gives to the districts when it doesn't want such a kind of production. This is important to maintain a living and active rural community throughout the country. It is also true that today’s legislation relating to production, distribution and serving is often a hindrance to the success of manufacturers. This applies in particular to local producers of alcoholic beverages, who meet unnecessary resistance through legislation and through the charging system. We believe that a completely different and more benevolent policy is needed if we in Norway are to succeed in stimulating more people to local production based on local raw materials. The farmer is a self-employed person, and it is important that the entrepreneurial spirit is given a greater place in agriculture. The Party supports the proposal and wishes to amend the alcohol law so that local producers of alcoholic beverages with an alcoholic strength of more than 4,75 p.m. are authorised to sell demonstrations and to serve on visits to or in connection with production premises. It will also be important to stimulate the production and sale of locally produced alcoholic beverages with an automatic right to sample sales through the distribution stage of the Vinmonopole. The only thing we do not support is that this should be done through the neutral conversion of the production charge on alcohol. In general, we believe that taxes on alcohol, a legally negotiable product, need to be reduced so that we do not build bureaucracy and promote special treatment for one producer rather than another. That the Christian People's Party does not support this kind of district promotion is nothing new. It is also not new that the Arbeiderpartiet and SV are in favour. But it's strange that the Center Party, which likes to represent the peasants and districts, makes a 180-degree turnaround – a deep kneefall for the Workers' Party. You forget your promises to the people. With this, I would like to address the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1469	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1472	The Christian People's Party joins in the good work of the case-speaker. I thought it might be nice both for the government party and for the Christian People's Party to look at what happened in our country on 21 May, where one could read that Norwegian alcohol policy is ranked highest in an extensive study. This shows that the Norwegian alcohol policy is both recognized and very good. The study deals with alcohol policy in the 30 OECD countries in five areas. There are availability, price, advertising rules, rules for alcohol in traffic and relationships with drinking situations. The study confirms that there is a clear link between restrictive alcohol policies and lower consumption. It turns out that the Norwegian model, despite the criticism that some people bring here, is both effective and helpful in saving lives. Therefore, the Christian People's Party cannot support measures that help to elevate the good Norwegian alcohol policy, although the intention of the proposers is good in that a desire to give districts and agriculture better opportunities for nutrient development. But according to the Christian People's Party's view, it's more important and better reason not to be on the proposals. The Christian People's Party believes that the monopoly scheme is one of the most important instruments in Norwegian alcohol policy. We have to stick to that arrangement. We therefore support the government party and are in the plurality of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1487	Today is really a sad day. It is a sad day for The 5 winemakers in Tromsø, who have just finished their first production of wine based on local raw materials, a sad day for AVEC in Lakselv, who have come a long way in developing high-quality wine based on local berries, and for Hildurs Urterarium in Brønnøysund, who operates local wine production combined with travel experiences. It's a sad day for the side producers in Hardanger, where tourists come by to watch the production, but they don't get to bring their taste home. And it's a sad day for the 16 breweries that are threatened with fines if they don't remove references and images of their own products from their own websites. Everyone has had great expectations that today’s Storting would make sensible decisions that would make everyday life easier for them, making it more likely that they could further develop products and their businesses, through changing framework conditions and simplifying legislation. I actually believed that here we had a case that could gather broad support in Stortinget. In fact, the signals received from local producers from representatives of the government party have been positive. To the Newspaper nations earlier in ours, the sacrosanct leader, the Schjäla from the Center Party, the following: ‘I’m basically not negative to the Left’s proposal, but this certainly deserves thorough treatment. [[...]] Innovation and innovation may also require new legislation in some areas. We must not put unnecessary obstacles in the way of the success of the people of Building Norway." Well said, but now that we've phased on the table, we see that the representatives of the government parties once again hide behind a technocratic foundation when they vote against sensible proposals rather than help those who want to up and down, those who want to create something based on local raw materials, local history and local tradition. The Left's proposals do not have significant economic consequences either. The left is very disappointed in this matter, not least about the Central Party, which is completely in agreement with the Left, and which is responsible for the same changes in local government and county council. The central part of Sogn and Fjordane, my own state, mein e.a.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘It should be possible to establish rules adapted to small-scale alcohol production without unduly reducing the purpose of Norwegian alcohol policy.’ But in the Chamber today, the Senterpartiet believes that the Left's proposal for the same would be a violation of the purpose of Norwegian alcohol policy. This is double-moral to the highest power. Earlier this week, it was known that 16 breweries, most of the small local breweries such as Trondhjem Mikrobrygeri, Naked Island, Kalfarets Kultur and Haandbrygeri, were threatened with fines if they did not remove references and images of their own products from their own websites. Previously, it has been known that such a threat has been addressed to the side producers in Hardanger. This is Heia-Noreg at its worst. Nevertheless, my plurality, consisting of the government party and the Christian People's Party, that a change that allowed information on own products would «shut up the ban on advertising and contribute to discrimination against other similar products». What kind of discrimination is this supposed to be about? It's hard for me to see. The paradox in the situation, which is truly discriminatory, is that the Net newspaper and other media can actually make a journalistic coverage of the offer and show the ‘prohibited images’ and ‘prohibited mention’ without any kind of consistency. Another paradox is that it is almost impossible to take a bottle of Norwegian-produced alcohol out of the country for those who would want it, at least for a traveler by plane. There is no Norwegian wine or page in the selection in tax-free shops, and if you buy a bottle on the pole, it will be drawn from you in the security check, if you have it with you as hand luggage. The aim of the proposal from the Left, which we are now discussing, is to understand that local production of food and drink based on local raw materials will be an important and decisive contributor to the future for Norwegian agriculture and tourism, and not least for living and active rural communities throughout the country. We still hear that this is also important for the government party, at least in their party numbers. But when it comes to the hard reality, proposals that could help achieve these goals are constantly being voted down by the same parties – as they are today, unfortunately. I finally take up the suggestions from the Left in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1526	The representative Gunvald Ludvigsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1529	Let me start by pointing out that today’s regulation of this in the alcohol law was last amended in 2003. One then introduced a rule that allows municipal grant to be extended to the manufacture of non-spirited alcoholic beverages. This review has just been carried out in order to make it easier for local manufacturers to obtain a manufacturing authorisation and to enable such products to be donated in their own activities. Furthermore, the idea behind the change was to promote the relationship between food, drink and tourism and the potential of the combination of local traditions and economic development. I would also like to point out on a general basis that favouring Norwegian local products rather than products from other EEA countries could pose challenges under EEA law. I would like to stress the importance of all our alcohol policy instruments being viewed as a whole. They are adapted to give the best possible effect, so that as few problems as possible arise with alcohol. If we go in and change one of these tools, we also risk that the total effect will decrease. That's why I find it problematic to change, for example. the system of charging for alcoholic beverages so as to introduce the freedom of duty on the production of alcoholic beverages up to the proposed 4000 litres. This is as is known mainly by the Minister of Finance, but I would like to comment briefly on it. Such a change in the charging system may, as mentioned above, help to reduce the impact of the overall alcohol policy. Furthermore, research shows us very clearly that lower prices lead to increased consumption of alcoholic beverages. I therefore believe, like several speakers here today, that it would be wrong to lower the tax on some alcoholic beverages, because this could lead to lower sales prices on the products. In the alcohol law, there is an absolute ban on advertising, with a few very limited exceptions. In particular, retailers with online sales are allowed to provide product and price information per. Internet, as far as is necessary for sale to be carried out in legal channels. In addition to this, I and the Government do not want to open up product information about alcoholic beverages online. I can't see that the holders of a gift permit or a sales permit that applies to a physical site have the same need to provide price and product information on the Internet as that of a web-based sale. Let me also remind you that the Stortinget at the latest during the treatment of Ot.prp. No 86 for 2003–2004 agreed that it is important to maintain a strict media-neutral advertising ban. As many have said, the monopoly system is one of our strongest and most important alcohol policy instruments. We are therefore constantly working to maintain support for this in the population. In this regard, I asked, as many people know, the Vinmonopolet to explore the possibilities of getting a more similar geographic availability, by looking at different models to improve the store coverage in the districts. The rationale is that increased geographical availability will help to ensure population disintegration and legitimacy for a system that is important for reducing alcohol consumption and harm. This investigation was handed over to me a short time ago. I think there's a lot of good suggestions there. We evaluate them now and will come back to Stortinget with proposals to follow up on this. With regard to the proposal to open up locally produced products for direct entry into the range of products of the Vinmonopole, I believe that one would thus risk weakening the good quality of the product for which the Vinmonopole is known. This quality is achieved by the fact that all products must be subjected to quality testing before they are included in the product range. In addition to these quality requirements, any person entitled to make wholesale sales may apply for their products to be included in the product range of the Vinmonopole. It is not appropriate to disregard the quality requirements of the Vinmonopole to its products. I think that's one of the most important characteristics of the Vinmonopole. In the event of a deterioration in quality, the support of the people to the monopoly system may be impaired. We don't want to. Having said that, the government also wants to support local food and drink production based on local raw materials. I agree with the majority of the Health and Care Committee, who asks us to look at the possibility that, in addition to giving their self-produced drink, local producers will also have the opportunity to sell it, provided that the product contains less than 4.8 % by volume of alcohol. It's a proposal I want to look at and come back to Stortinget with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1546	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1550	The Council of State is talking about issues which are that such legislation as we are dealing with today would be contrary to EEA and EU legislation. I see that as something amazing, as long as these schemes are already in place in all EEA and EU countries. Can the Council of State clarify what these problems will be about as long as these arrangements are in place in all other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1555	Firstly, I said that there may be problematic aspects in the relationship with EEA legislation. There is a need to favour Norwegian products, as is the case in the proposal to include them in the wine monopoly schemes, which may be problematic, among other things. on it with a prohibition of advertising, or whether or not to permit advertising. All these are things that can add up to challenges related to the EEA. It's a matter in itself. But the most important thing from the government's point of view is that the sum of the proposals that have been put forward here will, as we see it, be involved not in reducing the challenges of alcohol use in Norway, but in increasing the problems and increasing the challenges. It doesn't want the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1560	I noted that the Council of State is talking about quality, and there are some of us who have put forward the proposal. But that's kind of not the point here. We're actually talking about a little softening of alcohol laws. That is what is behind our proposal. We don't think that will affect alcohol consumption in negative terms. On the other hand, the proposal will strengthen the settlement in the districts. And when one way distributes and disadvantages in this case, we think the math comes in plus. So my question to the Council of State is: why is the Government so negative to the Left's proposal, which can be stimulating to the creativity of those who are engaged in Norwegian agriculture and who can be a contribution to an industry that is hard to cope with?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1567	I fully agree that there is a potential to bet on local food, drink and tradition. It's a lot to pick up there. That is one of the reasons why one will soften the legislation regarding the permission to make a lot of drinks and also to serve it. I have today announced that the Government is prepared to see whether some local producers can also sell some products with less than 4.8 % vol. alcohol. So it doesn't matter to say that the government isn't too creative and to take advantage of these possibilities. But what the representative Ludvigsen calls 'a little softening' in the proposals that have been put forward here, we see in a different way. Everything is related to everything that Gro Harlem Brundtland has said in a different context. It's just that what's called a little decoration, in sum, along with many suggestions, becomes a great decoration in the wrong direction, as we see it. We believe that there are so many challenges now related to alcohol use in Norway that things that make this go wrong will not be recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1574	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1579	I take the floor because the representative Ludvigsen from the Left is going so violently towards the Central Party. He's quoting me from the nations. It is quite correct: I was not at all negative to this matter at all. I promised to work on the matter, and I really did. As one works on the matter, one sees that one encounters challenges where cross-interests are set against one another. In the Central Party, we believe that having a monopoly of wine is very important, and that very many measures or proposals that come and threaten it, we should really be on guard against. So we actually meet the representatives on the way, by saying that we ask the Government to review these proposals, and the Council of State has said she will. One could possibly be allowed to sell localized drinks under 4.8 pst, i.e., where you can dealcoholize a page. Then it's worth noting that there's locally produced wine and pages today on the Wine Monopoly that have passed the test quality and that customers actually want. I think it's great that local-produced goods can be accommodated in the range of the Vinmonopolet, as it's called. Then I don't want this kind of alcohol sale to save Norwegian agriculture. There are other measures to ensure Norwegian agriculture in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1588	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3106]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1596	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1619	During the debate, Mr Lien put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to raise a case to allow municipalities to manage the law on motor travel in the outland.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1645	During the debate, Ivar Kristiansen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government immediately to ensure that the use of a carriage for the carriage of passengers is permitted in the same way as before the entry into force of the new Act on Professional Transport of 21 June 2002’.» This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1761	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Progressive Democrats, on the Right and the Left, on the proposal No. 2 by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 3, by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for changes to the tax system through a neutral conversion of the production levy on alcohol resulting in the first 4000 litres produced each year being free of charge, while production in addition to such a volume is subject to higher taxes than today’. [[alcohol duty]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1791	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the 2007 Revised National Budget, to promote the necessary changes in the alcohol law which permit the sale and service of demonstrations during visits to production premises or in connection with them to grant the necessary grant of the gift.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1806	There will then be a vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary changes to the alcohol law, which will allow for the sale and service of demonstration goods by visiting production premises or in connection with them, at the latest, in the context of the Revised National Budget for 2007, limited to 1 litre of alcoholic beverages per person when sold over a disk.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party now wants to support this proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1823	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government as soon as possible and, at the latest, in the context of the 2007 Revised National Budget, proposes that locally produced alcoholic beverages with an alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 4,75 % vol. are granted an automatic right to test sales through the distribution point of the Vinmonopolet.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1838	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary amendments to the alcohol law which allow local producers of alcoholic beverages to inform them of their products on their own Internet pages, as is currently available to the Wine Monopoly, at the latest in the context of the 2007 Revised National Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-24.ana.ud342e1871	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
