ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e29	Honourable co-representatives! Former representative Johan Nyland is dead, 75 years old. Johan Nyland was a glowing, committed and active political man. He dedicated his entire adult life to political work. He joined the policy at a young age through West Uppland Working Youth Act and Kapp Arbeiderungschlag. Later, he had a number of responsibilities in municipal policy, including: as Chairman of the Workers' Party Group in the Eastern Toten Municipal Government. He was also Chairman of the Workers' Party's Group in Oppland County and a member of the Board of the Oppland Workers' Party. In 1981, Johan Nyland was elected alternate representative of Stortinget, and from 1986 to 1997 he met as a permanent representative. During all three periods, he was a member of the Transport Committee. Here he made himself felt like a strong and committed champion of the railways and public transport. Not least he had an intense commitment to the Gardermoban, which was crowned with victory. And he was an impeccable champion of the Gjøvik Railway. We can certainly say that Johan Nyland has set permanent rail tracks behind him as a transport politician. Johan was so strongly involved in the railway that many co-representatives and members of the press department thought he was working in the NSB. So he would also like to say "we in the NSB" when he had posts about the railway at the Workers' Party's group meetings. Johan had many friends in Stortinget. We knew him as a warm and rusty man who cared for everyone around him. He saw other people – and he saw when they had bad days. Then he always had a kind word and a warm smile to come with. Johan Nyland spread a good mood around him with his good mood. We are many inside and outside the Storting who remember him as a man with glimpses in his eye. With his quick and striking lines, he created laughter and fun. But Johan Nyland could also be serious. He did not accept injustice, and he engaged vigorously for the weakest in society. When he took the floor at the Group meetings of the Workers' Party, and he often did, he spoke out with weight. Then he could show both tears and anger, but the laughter always sat loose. There was always reason to listen, because Johan Nyland had solid ground contact and good analysis of reality around him. With the death of Johan Nyland, we have lost not only a good co-worker, but also a good, warm and socially engaged person. We remember Johan Uusimaa with deep respect and bring peace to his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e56	Representatives of Thore A. Nistad and Finn Martin Vallersnes, who have our permit, have taken the seat again. The representative of Svein Flätten wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e67	On behalf of Martin Engeset and myself, I would like to make a proposal to explore the Horten-Moss tunnel as a ferry relief project.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e72	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e75	On behalf of the representatives Carl I. Hagen, Siv Jensen and myself, I am delighted to propose a progress plan to ensure a warm, optional and dignified elderly care that shines.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e80	The representative, Ib Thomsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e84	On behalf of the representatives of Per-Willy Amundsen, Åge Starheim, Jørund Rytman and myself, I would like to make a proposal to investigate the consequences of including municipal businesses in the ordinary VAT code.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e89	The representative, Jørund Rytman, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e92	On behalf of Bård Hoksrud, Ib Thomsen and myself, I would like to propose the implementation of voting procedures via the Internet and SMS at the municipal and county elections in 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e97	Ulf Leirstein would like to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e100	On behalf of the representative Anders Anundsen and myself, I would like to make proposals to establish a fully funded state-owned Oslofjord link between Østfold and Vestfold.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e105	The proposals will be dealt with in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e119	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 45 minutes, the Progress Party 25 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Centre Party 10 minutes and the Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a succession of up to three sequences with replies after the speeches of the main speakers from each group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government, within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e128	In doing so, the Municipal and Administrative Committee shall present its position on new tasks and greater responsibility for the future regionally elected level. The government parties are in the setting together with the Left. It's a force. At the same time, we and the Christian People's Party agree on a lot. I should also fix a problem in the setting right away. In the event of an incursion, the Left has fallen out of the majority comment on page 25 on international cooperation. The left shall be included in the majority opinion. The great political distinction in this matter goes between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand – they want to lower the regional level – and the five other parties here in Stortinget, who want a strong and vital level between the state and the municipality, on the other hand. The regional level has an important function where municipalities become too small and the state too distant. The Labour Party and the others who make up the majority in this case have faith in a strongly elected regional level. We will warn against the weakening of the regime and the significant centralisation that will have to follow in the wake of the model of the Right and the Advance Party. It is also of particular interest to note that the Progress Party, which boasts of the ‘most people’, will pave the way for a coercive merger of municipalities and more government administration. There have been a number of investigations. In the past, large-scale notifications of changes in the task portfolio for the regional level have also been promoted. I am very pleased that we are now in a position to implement changes. In addition to the current tasks of county councils, regions shall be given greater responsibility in the fields of transport, industrial development, marine sector, agriculture, environmental protection, culture, education and research and regional planning. In the transport sector there is a significant transfer of tasks by transferring national roads and associated ferries to the regions. With such a comprehensive transfer of tasks, responsibilities and economic risks in the road sector, there is a clear need for the region to have its own road administration. We believe it should be investigated whether the development of regional road administration can be done by transferring parts of the state road system to the regions. The majority of the Committee agrees that if the regional breakdown gives large regions, not unlike the breakdown in the state road system, the majority of the state road system could be transferred to the regions. It is suggested that the new regions should have an important coordination function in relation to total public transport in their region, including rail and express buses. It is important that a political body can see the whole of the collective service being provided. Better collective provision could dampen the growth of passenger car traffic and thus limit climate emissions. In such regional coordination, it is important that the public transport operators be required to participate. In the field of industrial development, the Government has proposed that the regions become co-owners of Innovation Norway. We think this is a good solution, and we're assuming that the state has a holding of 51 pst. and the regions 49 pst. In addition to the general economic policy and the general framework conditions for business, Innovation Norway is the main tool for promoting development and growth in business. Such ownership of Innovation Norway is therefore a significant task for the regions. On the part of the majority, it is absolutely central that in practice, ownership of the company becomes as much equivalent as possible. The strategic leadership, objectives and mandate of the Governing Council shall be given and the appointment of the Governing Council shall take place in cooperation with the owners and in accordance with established procedures. In the management of Innovation Norway, the preparation of a letter of assignment is important. The majority have therefore emphasised in the suspension that the regions should be heavily involved in the process of preparing these letters of assignment. The majority have also requested that a greater proportion of the appropriations from all the departments concerned to Innovation Norway be allocated directly to the company’s regional offices. Through ownership and the exercise of this in ownership meetings, through the preparation of letters of assignment, the appointment of two members of the board of directors of the company's regional government, and not least through the management of own resources for regional development, the regions will, in some cases, be provided with the necessary tools to pursue an active regional enterprise policy. The strength of Innovation Norway is that they can help businesses from the local to the large international market. In its eagerness to be a birth aid to the new regions – which is otherwise an honorable motive – the Christian People's Party could risk, if their proposal had been adopted, beating the child out with the bath water. Such a weakening of Innovation Norway weakens business opportunities, we believe. In the field of the environment and agriculture, the largest job is to review what needs to be moved to the regional level. It is worth noting that we say in the Innstillin-Gen that ‘it is important to give the regions overall responsibility and instruments for the tasks that require the exercise of regional political judgement in environmental and agricultural management’. In the cultural field, the regions will be fully responsible for managing the funds for cultural buildings and for local and regional sports facilities. Furthermore, all funds for regional and local buildings and structures allocated by the Ministry of Culture and the Church shall be transferred to the regions. There are also several proposals in the field of culture that are important to note. As part of the overall strategy of making the regions an important development actor, the Regional Research Fund is established. In this context, we state that the regions should have the board of directors and the majority of the board, but at the same time, it is natural that the fund should be part of national research policies and anchored in regional and national strategies. State higher education institutions shall continue to be state-owned, but with a stronger participation from the regions. This is achieved by the designation of two regions, i.e. half of the external members of the board of directors of higher education institutions, and not least by establishing an obliging system of consultation between the State higher education institutions, the level of the region and the regional research funds. The responsibility for the operation and financing of vocational schools is transferred to the regions, which I believe will strengthen vocational education. Vocational schools are an important educational offer, especially for persons with a professional letter. But there are some issues related to the vocational schools that need to be addressed if the transfer to the regions is to be successful. Technical technical schools are funded with grants from the Ministry of Knowledge budget of more than 285 million. kr, whereas specialised schools providing health and care provision are financed by the Ministry of Health and Welfare budget as part of the 2015 Competence Plan. For 2007, this leverage is financed with a total of 152 million. kr, of which specialised schools are one of 12 measures. In other words, it is a much weaker and less coordinated funding of health and care subjects, which provides a gender imbalance in the funding of the various vocational school services. This must be done before the vocational schools are transferred to the regions, and this has been pointed out by the majority in their position. One of the important steps taken by the Government in this reform is to strengthen regional planning as an instrument by requiring regions to develop a regional planning strategy to be approved by the King. The Regional Plan Strategy is proposed as a new element of the Planning and Building Act. The regional planning strategy shall identify the regional trends and challenges that are important, assess long-term development opportunities and address the issues to be addressed through further regional planning. The responsibilities of the regions in regional planning and development will also include coordination of transport solutions and regional environmental and climate strategies. Otherwise, I would like to mention that we are giving strong leadership in ensuring that dental care remains a regional responsibility. Furthermore, we will have investigated whether public health work should go from being a volunteer to being an ordinary task for the future regions. State policies now have an important role to play in the further process. In the vote, the majority stressed that the tasks referred to are, as a general rule, independent of the future division and size of regions. However, I would like to point out that the national assembly of the Workers' Party has stated that the objectives of the Party are fewer, larger and stronger regions. However, in the first place, state policymakers are in good dialogue with municipalities in particular – and that dialogue is very important – which is to say about their future division. It should be lacking – when we talk about strengthening the Regional People's Rule, this must be the right way to proceed. It would therefore be wrong for us to give signals about the breakdown now. I believe that with the dynamics and will of change on the part of the states, there will be an important and vital debate in the future. For this reason – also for the Labour Party, and as a direct follow-up to our national meeting decision – I would like to inform you that the government parties, and I allow myself to mention the Left in the same context, will vote in favour of the Christian People's Party's proposal No. 17 See the correction on page 2903, which provides openings for further work on looking at the task portfolio.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e173	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e176	In the past, the representative, Mr Hagebakken, has stood behind a rapporteur's insurrection. Now we have seen a new – possibly larger – rapporteur's uprising, which goes on to strengthen local democracy, that municipalities should be able to decide for themselves whether they want slot machines to be deployed. My question to the representative is: what will he whisper in the ear of the Minister of Culture in terms of slot machines and placement in the municipalities, in order to strengthen local self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e181	I'm not going to whisper anything. I have attended the national meeting in the Workers' Party, and there we have stated clearly what we want to do. We will follow the scheme that the Minister of Culture will implement, but we will follow very closely how this develops. That is why we want a consultation arrangement between the Government and the KS, and we want to look at how this works, and whether it is necessary to take action gradually.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e186	We have heard before, and also now in the post of the representative of Hagebakken, that the government parties have turned and will now vote in favour of the open-book proposals of the Christian People's Party. That means that one opens up to continue listening to hearings about tasks, as far as I interpret that proposal. In the vote, the majority writes in relation to the State Road Administration: ‘This majority considers that the transfer of tasks from the State Road Service to the regions does not have to go beyond the strong national environments of competence that have been built up and that economies of scale that have been achieved through last year’s reorganisations can be maintained.’ My question to the representative Hagebakken is: is the majority comment still valid, or is it such that the question can also be changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e198	What's in our settings applies. But now it is that when we open up a further process in terms of tasks, we have to be willing to look at all the problems, without I being able to anticipate what it will end up in. As far as the road sector is concerned, we have said something about the relationship between the size and the scale of the problems. So there it's really clear to the county councils what will be the starting point, and that's the starting point until it might have to be decided otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e203	It was just to be lacking if one were not to listen to the states in terms of breakdown, said Hagebakken in his post. And the Christian People's Party agrees that, especially in a democratic reform, one must listen to what local trust voters in municipalities and states. Therefore, the Christian People's Party marvels that one did not listen any more when one had open consultation in Stortinget, for there it was on the part of the counties a somewhat unanimous attitude in terms of tasks. But now the government parties are saying that they still want an open book, that they want to receive signals about problems. Can we now trust that a person will really evaluate the proposals that lie in the minority's position?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e208	The tasks mentioned in the option are inside, and there are more tasks than what is mentioned in the Government's message. In addition, there are several clarifications, clarifications, which I have also made clear in my introduction. One of the reasons why it has become so is that we have listened during hearings, and that we have listened to everyone else who has had an opinion on this. But I can't say anything now about what will be the government's further conclusions in the year we now go into, which will be a very important year. But I hope that the representative Tørresdal thinks it is nice and constructive from our side that we now end up with this proposal, so that the book is not finally closed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e213	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e217	The county is dead. For the treatment of St.meld. No 12 The Progress Party has chosen to focus on how the municipalities, the basic wall of democracy, can be strengthened. For example, we have suggested that municipalities should be responsible for far more tasks, such as economic development, aquaculture, taxi concessions, permits to grant small-scale power plant concession and, in particular, gambling policy. I have read the Evening Post and Municipal Report online today, and I perceive that there is a great deal of division in the government parties about strengthening local democracy in the case of slot machines. It will be interesting to follow further developments and see who really believes what they say about strengthening local democracy. We also want municipalities to take responsibility for higher education. We stress that schools should be self-governed and price-funded. Norway is a small country, with 4.6 million inhabitants, and today has three levels of government. The position of the Progress Party in the reform has therefore been to wind up the county municipality as a level of government and to divide the tasks between the two remaining levels. Since the counties have lost responsibility for the hospitals, the intermediate level has not had any tasks to defend the existence of the level. The government parties initially wanted to strengthen the counties through a comprehensive administrative reform, which was announced, in which the counties would be replaced by larger regions responsible for a number of important societal tasks. I believe that many of our local politicians are still waiting for this comprehensive reform. For this reason, the municipality of Norway sees this as a gastric plaque. The starting point was to want regions, an over-municipality, at any price, and it has been easy to fill this intermediate level with tasks. When we see the attitude to the first part of the reform, it is clear that the new overcommunities would only have small and insignificant tasks beyond what the county council has today. Therefore, the reform is only a game for the gallery, with the re-dilation of the county municipality to the region, as well as the addition of small and insignificant tasks that will hardly be enough to legitimise the long-term existence of the intermediate level. No one in Norway's population has a relationship with the county, or with an over-municipality, but everyone – everyone – has a relationship with the municipality in which they live and it should be strengthened. It can make it easier for a new majority to remove the county councils, or the overcommunities, on the day they come into office. It's not that the quality of democracy can be measured by the number of politicians and the number of elected levels. On the contrary, the county councils, or the supercommunities, make it more difficult for voters to hold politicians accountable, because the regions must coordinate their decisions with the municipality and the state. Community policies and policies can therefore be blamed on regional politicians and on the other hand whenever things go wrong. So political decisions are diluted by blaming each other, which we have experienced sometimes until today. The Progress Party and the Right Two Level Model are undoubtedly more democratic than the Government Party model, because politicians will be more directly responsible for the policies pursued. The municipality should also have increased responsibility for fisheries and aquaculture policy. It also involves the transfer of the concession authority to each municipality in the framework of the Planning and Building Act, veterinary considerations and the Pollution Act. The framework conditions for industry must be based on market considerations in order to exploit the growth potential. At the same time, we will warn against the government's policy in view of the fact that the regions are becoming an over-municipality in planning and construction matters. We have gone against changing the structure of the offices in Vegvesen, so that the regions, or the super-municipals, have something to puzzle with. The county should be replaced by an administrative court capable of carrying out the legality control of local policy decisions. In the reform of the region, the Government has skipped some of the most important issues in local government policy for the Progress Party: giving increased incentives for growth in municipalities and industries in the municipalities. We want municipalities to get a stronger incentive for better framework conditions for growth and wealth growth in the long term by keeping a much larger proportion of the tax revenues they receive into the municipality today. In this case, therefore, we have called for free municipal taxpayers on condition that the price financing of basic welfare services is introduced first. Instead of a desperate attempt to add new tasks to the counties and rebaptise them into regions, I believe that the government should have looked at how a small country such as Norway can do without a costly and bureaucratic intermediate level. Finally, the government parties, which are trailers of regions, have now been tried. They have a majority, and they can do whatever they want, but they haven't.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e243	It's going to be line change. Before we do that, the president will note that he has received a note from the representative, Tore Hagebakken, who regrets that he was saying wrong when it was blatant what proposals from the Christian People's Party he supports. That is proposal No. 18 he will support, not proposal No. 17, as he said.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e248	With this message, the Labour Party has worked a lot to bring tasks down from the state to a regional level, closer to people. The Progress Party believes that municipalities are equipped for more tasks, but at the same time they want to move primary tasks such as health and school to a state level. Why doesn’t the Advance Party rely on local democracy they just talked so much about?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e253	Then I don't think the representative has read our proposals. We want exactly the opposite of what she says. We want secondary schools and schools to be in the municipalities, and that is what we believe to be strengthening local democracy. So I think the representative should read the proposals to the Progress Party one more time before she asks that question. So I just want to end by saying that it's not the number of politicians who decide how well elected we are to have, but what job you do in the municipalities, and how close you are to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e260	Ib Thomsen used the term "overcommunal" quite many times – it was so many times that I couldn't even count them. It's a little bit unclear what's in the expression as the Progress Party uses it, but it's pretty obvious that it's a negatively charged expression, at least in the terminology of the Progress Party. I therefore have a question about what is contained in the term ‘overcommunities’ and about whether the Progress Party sees this as something negative, something wrong. Municipalities will always be affected by decisions taken by others. When Oslo Municipality makes a decision that goes on land disposal, it is clear that it has consequences for the municipalities of Akershus, for example. That's how it's going to be everywhere. So then the question is: wouldn't it make more sense that we have a level of political responsibility for specific areas, and that the decision is taken there – in this case a regional level, within, for example, land disposal? This is not the case with over-municipalities, sub-municipalities and the state. Then it's about a responsibility that lies there, and decisions are made at the level of responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e267	These are the signals I have received from local politicians around the country, and these are the signals that the Committee received when it had consultations on the matter, that local politicians are afraid that the new regions will become an over-municipality. They were not just afraid, they really feared that the new regions would become an over-municipality. That's from where we have the over-municipal concept, that's the fear from local politicians that one should be overrun by the over-municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e272	Everyone has a relationship with their municipality, said the representative in his post. I think everyone is happy in the municipality they live in – I think that’s right, the Christian People’s Party agrees with that consideration. But does not the Progress Party see that if a person transfers as much power as the Progress Party proposes to the municipalities, it forces itself, either through coercion or voluntarity, to merge into larger units? Is that not a threat to all those who are happy in the municipality in which they live? Isn't it true that we're going to take care of the municipal structure we have today, at least as long as you want it for yourself? Isn't that a goal for the Progress Party? Or isn't it about the structure, that you have a relationship with the exact municipality you live in? When one is so concerned about moving power closer to the people – it is something Christian People's Party also is – should not the Progress Party then consider subsidiaryly supporting the transfer of power from state to region, because it is now a step further, and there are majority for three levels in Norway? Should not one then relate to it and be involved in moving more power from state to region?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e277	The Progress Party has programmed that we are in favour of voluntary community reunification and that this should be done by referendum in each municipality. We see that it has been done with luck both in Westfold and in the West. Municipalities have joined forces, because they have felt that it has been completely natural for them. So we believe that this is a good solution for many municipalities – not for everyone, but for some municipalities we believe that it is a good solution. Yes, we are for power to be closer to the population, and then we think strengthening the municipalities is the best solution. I said that the relationship with the county municipality is very bad in the population, and that is why we think that the municipalities should be strengthened by the steps that we have taken in the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e282	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e285	There St.meld. No 12 was submitted in December, we said it was a necrologer of the county municipality. Many around the country then had expectations that the Storting and the Committee would use their treatment to revive the dream of regionalised Norway. The attitude that we have today shows that the will and ability to breathe life into the county municipality is not present among the majority in this hall, and that the necrologist thus stands almost unchanged. It shows that the background for this case has been too weak. The starting point is that the government parties at Soria Moria quickly agreed on the programme formulations of large and strong regions, without discussing the kind of consequences it would have for an organised Norway. Yes, one had simply completely different approaches to what these programme formulations meant. There is nothing new from this government – it was easy to agree on Soria Moria, the follow-up is much worse. But that's what happens when you celebrate the problems under the carpet instead of lifting them up when the decisions are made. We could have been in a situation today where the Storting would adopt a significant democratic reform that could strengthen local self-government. However, the assumptions for it disappeared at the time one was more concerned with formulating clear programme declarations than of going into an analysis of what are the challenges in Norway to strengthen local democracy, and what societal problems there is a desire to solve. The reason why that question was not asked — yes, an elected one even to cancel and cancel the research report ordered by the previous government, just to provide a professional basis for democratic reform — was that the government parties had concluded with the solution before the problem was described. It is also the message – and the setting – that bears a clear mark. It does not prove a real need for reform, nor does it point to the societal tasks that require new solutions. It's kind of the starting point that we want a region, and then we're going to try to fill it up with as much as we can agree on. And it was, as we know, not very much. This is why, for example: All of a sudden, the guidance task for primary schools ended up in elected regions, while supervision and control remained with the county. Yes, yes – the knowledge minister had to contribute something to the pot he too, and then he gave it as the pain least. That's the way the message is structured -- a little bit here and a little bit there, without a whole, without a reason. The most visible contribution the majority has made is in fact – as we heard the case-rapporteur here also put out in the majority of his speech – a detailed description of the Statutes of Innovation Norway and some vague wordings that create hope for something more. The consequence of this is that the Storting does not even decide today to give the county councils a new name, but suggests that they may be able to get a new name with little more content. The joint analysis that all the lots made prior to the 2005 decision was that today’s county council did not have sufficient content and tasks that made it viable. The conclusion of today’s deliberations must be that the county, whether called or not, of the tasks it now commits does not have sufficient tasks or powers to be viable. The only parties in this room that are therefore left with a real alternative to implementing a significant local democracy reform are the Right and the Advance Party, by building on the local democracy unit that is deeply uprooted in the population, great trust in the population, namely the municipalities. The debate on the regional level has gone throughout Scandinavia. Conclusions have become different in different countries. In Denmark, a significant community reform, established health regions, was implemented, but on the Committee’s study visits the message was clear: health regions would be awake in a decade. They would go on a two-tier model. Finland, which has a two-tier model, carried out an analysis based on the establishment of an intermediate level and concluded that they would continue the two-tier model. In Sweden, a trade union group has reached a different conclusion, namely large, strong sub-regions, containing at least a large city, a university and a university hospital. However, the difference between Norway and Sweden in this area is significant, because in 2001 Norway chose to transfer the task that could have given legitimacy to an intermediate level, namely hospitals, to the State, based on a broad political desire that health policy be national and should be determined nationally, and that responsibility should lie with the Minister of Health. Therefore, for a third level of government, the basis in Norway is gone, and there is nothing in this setting that points in any other direction. So the greatest danger with the attitude of the government parties and the majority of the population is that one continues an intermediate level with a significant political administration and a significant bureaucratic administration that does not have enough tasks to do. It's hardly going out on the state, for the state is good at holding on to its, where it sits, through this work. Those who are going to be hit by it are the municipalities. This intermediate level will gradually feed more and more into the territory of the municipalities and more and more appear to be an over-municipality. It makes me feel convinced that it won't be long before the majority in this room also thinks that a two-level model is the most sensible, because the pressure from the parties' local politicians and local politicians is going to go very quickly on that we will get rid of it. It will no longer be just the county that interferes with spatial planning, no longer just the county that interferes with local decisions. Even more and more, if this is implemented, we will have state politicians and a regional level that is even more distant than today's level, which interferes with local decisions. The right-hand and Progress Party options are based on the fact that municipalities have proven to have both the ability to prioritise different welfare tasks and to take on larger tasks. It must be a great paradox that, despite the fact that one has now had county municipalities for many years, there has been a growing need in the municipalities to establish regional cooperation within what is called housing and labour regions. It is precisely because the municipalities have seen that they themselves have some tasks that they cannot solve within today's structure. But they haven't seen the county council as the natural place to look to to solve these problems. No, they have taken responsibility for themselves, set up obligatory cooperation and solve tasks, and come to an agreement in land planning and transport that has great confidence in the population. I would say that the decisions taken today in the fields of transport planning, land-use planning and economic development would have no legitimacy in the population or in the state if the decisions taken in the municipalities and in cooperation between the municipalities had not been properly based. So the entire legitimacy of today's decisions in the county municipality is based on the agreement with the municipalities. That is the model on which the Right and Advance Party are based. That is why it is wrong when the majority try to make it as a premise for the Right and the Advance Party model is a comprehensive community merger. We point to the challenges posed by today's municipal structure, and I'm surprised that part of the government parties, especially the Workers' Party, do not. So the answer is not a comprehensive coercion of municipalities, the answer is to give municipalities confidence in discussing these challenges themselves. In conclusion, I would like to thank the Progress Party for the positive and constructive work we have had to achieve between ourselves, which points forward and is more tense than what has been achieved by the majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e308	Does the President want the right if the representative Höie has intended to include the proposals in the setting where the Right is associated with the other party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e312	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e317	The representative Bent Høje has drawn up the proposals to which it refers. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e322	I hear what Right Bent Höie says about community mergers, but to me it seems obvious to me that it is impossible to transfer tasks of the extent of today's county councils, not least with the task portfolio we want to transfer – and today we decide to transfer – to the regions, to today's municipalities. So now I think it's time for the Right to say straight away that they want to do coercion. Per Sandberg has suggested that 150 municipalities could be an appropriate number. And then I ask, is that also a suitable number for the right?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e327	This line I answered in my post. The right believes that today's municipal structure poses major challenges. I believe that the representative Hagebakken also believed that before he entered into a government cooperation with the Center Party and SV. Our answer to those challenges is to give municipalities confidence in discussing and finding sensible solutions to this. This discussion can be stimulated by the fact that the State rewards municipalities that merge and find good solutions. be a bridge to ensure that this becomes appropriate. This could be done, for example, by: be a broadband extension to be made appropriate, or, for example: maintain State transfers for a longer period of time in order to make it appropriate. These are positive instruments, not coercion. This will be found in the Råres Storingsprogramm, which at that point is roughly word-like to the Workers' Party's decision-making programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e336	Right wants a two-tier model. At the same time, a number of State politicians from the Right have been engaged in the discussion of transferring important tasks to the new regions. My question is: when the Right now knows that there are a majority in this Chamber for three levels of government in Norway, why do the Right do not participate more in the discussion subsidiaryly in order to propose important tasks in the fields of industrial development, transport and regional planning to the new regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e343	The reason is that Right through this setting, which is a big message, will clarify what our option is. Many people have previously asked for a reply from the Right to close the county. That answer has now been given, and it is in this setting. We want to work from that, and we believe that this setting provides an even better basis than before for working for a two-tier model. I would also like to say that the possibility of creating a majority to strengthen local democracy was, in reality, 'candidified' at two times. The first time was when the government parties entered the Soria Moria declaration that they wanted large and strong direct elected levels. The second time was when Minister of State Åslaug rejected Haga's refusal that the reform would involve significant task transfers to the municipalities. Had there been a basis for discussing the significant task transfers to municipalities, there might have been a broader compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e350	Our answer to the administrative reform is that we want generalist communities and elected peoples in the regions. The answer to the right is also given. As Bent Höie says, you have to transfer tasks to state. The transfer of tasks to intercommunal companies or the coercion of municipalities is required. This permeates the position in the setting. The representative Höie does not see a major problem in that when they point to inter-communal companies for tasks by tasks, it makes the political role unclear and leads to increased bureaucracy and unclear policy guidelines, among others. in secondary, dental and public transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e357	The representative Battle Violence Vedum would have had a point if it wasn't for the fact that these structures like the Right and the Advance Party want to give new tasks, already exist. It must be a paradox for one who is a member of the county municipality that the municipalities have found it necessary to establish these regional structures within the construction, housing and labour regions, because the municipalities have found that the county municipality has not been a suitable place to meet these challenges. This shows that the county council does not trust local politicians at municipal level either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e364	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e367	The last century became the century of democracy. Yet, over this century, democracy collapsed around the world more than 70 times. Yet, overall, there was a time for the construction of new democracies. The new democracies that were built were largely built within the framework of the nation state, which grew up from the 1800s. National construction in Norway took place from the mid-1900s to the culmination of independence in 1905. The very democratization took place from the late 1800s onwards in the new century. The 20th century became the great age of nation states. In the last half of the century, we tended to try to build supranational institutions. In Eastern Europe, there were several examples. We got Yugoslavia. We had the Soviets, who had their history, with their supranational structure. And in Western Europe, the EU was established, gradually trying to put in place democratic structures. The supranational construction works in the east are largely gone, and we're back to the nation state. In the west, the EU is struggling with its democratic project. Participation in elections is low, and there is evidence that these types of democracies, which have their background in the nation state, have difficulty in getting nationalised. Democracy as a form of governance has demonstrated its strength and its clear advantages over other types of governance. But it's not won and established once and for all. All the time we have to be looking to strengthen it and not least to expand it. The Authority’s final report in 2003 concluded that in Norway, the government of the People’s Republic of China has weakened. The rule of the people is weakened by the loss of power to the market. Here we have two ways to distribute benefits. It is through political decisions and through the market. We have a transfer of decisions from the political to the market. We lose power to supranational bodies, not always democratic supranational bodies, and we leave power to the courts by law, so that it becomes the courts that decide people's rights, and no longer the political decisions. The time has come to revitalize the regime. But revitalisation requires other answers than those we had during the nation-building period. Furthermore, the national state should be the framework for our democratisation. The trend across Europe is that regions have a more important role to play. Further democratisation requires a minimum of popular commitment. It is obvious that the major supranational construction works are unable to mobilize the popular commitment. We have several major challenges, but let me draw out two. The development, as the evaluators describe it, must be reversed. We have to police Norway again. The tendency to abate among people must be counteracted. As politicians, we cannot, in our zeal, take responsibility for matters and areas that have moved to others or to the market. It's this thing that's helping to create renunciation. It is necessary to establish a level that is sufficiently close to people, while at the same time being given responsibility for matters that are large enough to involve people. It is therefore necessary to provide for a minimum of proximity between the cases to be decided and those to which the decisions are to apply. Our challenge will be to establish a political level that has the ability to tackle the major and important issues that matter in people's lives, which are politically challenging, and which have a potential for development in a continued democratisation. I believe that one of the most exciting political arenas in the future can be the regional level, because it is large enough to become a central decision-making level for societal development, while at the same time being responsible for important common tasks. The basis for this setting is a good starting point. There are two reasons for this: we are now making the premise for the work on the geographical breakdown, and we are also creating a framework that will enable this level to be given new and important tasks in the future. The attitude is good in many areas, while in other areas it should have gone further in relation to our decentralisation and our democratisation. It is particularly good at linking industrial development, research and education. The approach brings these sectors together in a good way and places a heavy and important responsibility on the regional level. Ownership of Innovation Norway shall be partially transferred to the regions. In this setting, we'll draw a map of the cooperation relations of the owners. We link industrial development with research and regional research funds. Let me make it clear that it is important that, at the next round, we get proposals for the size of the research funds and how they are to be organised. We link this with higher education, where regions are given greater responsibility both in relation to the research profile regionally and by entering the boardrooms – perhaps more symbolically but nevertheless important. The link between industrial development, research and education contained in this Communication and this setting is an important topic and an important area, and it will be a central task for the new regions. I feel reasonably confident that this responsibility will be taken by those who are elected. We're also connecting this with the colleges. We're moving them back from the state to the regions – an important thing. We also ask that it now be cleaned up in relation to payment. We have free public education in Norway, with one exception, and that's the colleges. There is a need for us, as we also clarify in the setting, to get a case back to treatment, so that even the vocational schools can be as the rest of our education system is, free of charge. The way it works now, it's not good. We're taking important steps in the right direction when it comes to transportation. The new regions are given central and important road development tasks and are also given an important responsibility in terms of public transport. I believe and hope that this reform will give a boost to public transport in particular. There is a need for a lift, and I feel reasonably sure that it will be included in the new regions. Changes are also being made in the field of culture and new and important tasks are being moved to regional level. I already want to give praise here to the county councils in terms of the cultural sector. This is a responsibility that they have to a small extent legally imposed, but they have done a very good job in terms of culture and cultural work regionally. If it hadn't been for the county councils, it would have been bad with cultural life in many places. I want to give that rose to the county councils. Finally, let me say, it's important to be principled when dealing with such matters. In relation to a concept used by the Right Party, and in particular by the Advance Party, ‘overcommunities’, it is important to have a principle approach. It is important to distinguish administrative from political. I'm not sure we've made it completely. I still need to look at the proposals relating to primary school, whether there are purely administrative tasks we move and not political tasks. So there's a need for a new round, as I see it. And we need to make this clear: once a task has been added to a level, the task is at that level – so that we avoid the rather silly debate about over-municipalities. The book is not closed. We are voting in favour of the proposal by the Christian People's Party. We're still going to look at problems. We're still going to look at division, and there's an important process that's now going to go further in the counties, in the political parties, and in the next round here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e403	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e406	The evening post said on March 30: ‘I am surprised that Tørresdal was overrun.’ – That is, overrun by the government parties. – ‘This is a good democratic cause that has become a thin soup.’ It's Rolf Reikvam who says this to the Evening Post about the region's tasks. My question is then: What was the representative who wanted to get into the matter, or in the message, which he has not received, and what is missing to put the dot over the i-en? You were standing on the pulpit now and boasting of the message, but what is missing for you to be completely satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e416	The President would like to remind you that all posts should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e419	Thank you, President. At least I did this right. What we're talking about now is the setting and not the message. That's the committee's setting. As I said, in many areas we have made good progress. I also said in my post that I wish we had come in a number of areas beyond what we have done. I feel that there are some things that are unexplained. I can mention some examples: in the area of the environment, I would probably wish we had managed to get a little bit further, because, as I see it, there are some things in the environment that require political judgement, which today are left to officials, and I don't think that's good enough. So within the environment, within education and a lot of other areas, I wish we'd gotten a little bit further. But as I said, this is a good basis. This process goes on. The book is open, and we're going to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e426	It can seem like time is playing everybody's wounds. SV has fought a lot to transfer the road offices to the new regions, but when the setting was available, Reikvam was very disappointed. I quote from the Aftenbladet: ‘Here we had a historic chance of democratising and politicizing Norway. Both SV, Sp and A have developed strong regions in our bulking program. All three parties have clear national meeting decisions on this, and we have the KrF and the Left with us. So we could have got a clear multiple for this in Stortinget. This chance now we have to slide away. I am so sorry, says Reikvam to the Evening Leaf." What went wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e439	As I said in my post, I feel that we have come a long way. We've come further than it looked into a period. Many parties have now had national meetings, and this has been an important theme of these national meetings. Well, that obviously gives you new possibilities. I focused on the things I'm satisfied with in the attitude, that's what's involved in business development, education and the combination of research, education and business development. I mentioned culture, and I mentioned some other areas. Then there are several areas in which I think we should come even further. The decisions taken around the various national meetings open this door. The book is, as I said, still open. Process is moving on. When we're done with this, when we get to 2008 and the law is in place, I feel fairly confident that this will be a good reform, an exciting arena as a good place for political activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e446	I thank you for the exciting considerations initially in this article. The Christian People's Party can say yes to much of it. The Christian People's Party wants a democracy reform, wants an increased popular commitment, wants to say yes to revitalize the people's power. A good starting point should go further, said the representative of Reikvam in his post. I very much agree with that. Does SV really believe that this setting, as it exists today, is capable of stopping the depoliticisation of our society? Or is it this way to understand from the post of the representative of Rekovam that the government parties should have gone further in the direction of the Christian People's Party's proposal? Should it not then have been considered to support more than one of the proposals in this Chamber today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e453	With regard to the comments of the Christian People's Party in the setting, it says very well in principle. But when it comes to the concrete proposals, I feel that the Christian People's Party does not go much further than the government parties do. So at this stage, I don't need to support those proposals. As I said earlier, this process is going to go on. After all, we support the main proposal of the Christian People's Party, which is that we should have a further debate on matters, not just division. I think that's exciting. So I see that what we're doing now, in many ways just is the beginning at the end -- that we're going to start another process, where all the books are actually open, not only the division book, but also the books relating to the case fields. So for that reason, I'm actually very optimistic about what's going to happen in the future. We will achieve the final result in about a year and a half.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e460	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e463	This could be much more fun," said Audun Tron, Workers' Party rapporteur, on the administrative reform at the recent government contact conference. Yes, I agree. It could have been much more fun if we could have established today that there was a proper reform – and the discussion of two or three levels of government could have been decided today. But it's not like that. It'll just be an adjusted or renewed county municipality. The government made expectations about a reform. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government parties said that today's county councils should be dissolved and replaced by geographically larger regions and a directly elected regional council. Local democracy at the intermediate level should be strengthened. The Christian People's Party wants such a reform. In our party program, it says: ‘The future level of the region should have fewer units than current counties. Larger regions than the current counties will allow more tasks to be tackled regionally. The transfer of power from the Storing to the regions is a prerequisite for successful reform. In Norway, geographical conditions are such that regions will be of different size. The level of the region must be directly elected by the people in order to ensure genuine democracy.’.» All those who were waiting for a very comprehensive reform with new and holistic tasks at the new level of the region were disappointed when St.meld. No 12 was submitted before Christmas. The government presented an interesting plan for transferring many tasks in the fields of transport, culture, industrial development, research, agriculture and the environment from country to country or region. This task transfer strengthens for all parts of the intermediate level. But unfortunately it stayed a little bit here and a little bit there. The government should have gone further in a number of areas. For example, guaranteed direct public governance of food development funds in Innovation Norway, should not be governed by governance representation in national companies. It is simply not good enough to be called a reform. The Christian People's Party had clear expectations for the work of the reform in the Storting – this because the government parties said they wanted a broad settlement, and invited them to cooperate, and because many local and state politicians from the government parties clearly expressed their desire for a more comprehensive reform with more tasks than the St.meld. No 12 added up. And, the paperwork has given you more problems. For example, responsibility for allocating funds to regional and local sports facilities was transferred to the new regions. The Christian People's Party is pleased about this. But the Christian People's Party is very surprised that the government parties were no longer open to recordings of new tasks during the treatment in Stortinget. What is the purpose of organising open hearings in Stortinget if you have not intended to listen? Why was there no willingness on the part of the government parties to listen to what local trust elected by all parties said in the hearings? And why is it that it may seem that the government parties have concluded before the matter came to the committee in Stortinget? The government parties do not see this problem? Even the process and progress of the committee work seemed to be directed from the government apparatus. This is serious. This is the main problem with a majority government. The Christian People's Party fully supports the rationale and objectives of the reform, but we believe that objectives and intentions are not followed up when it comes to the transfer of new and holistic tasks to the new regions. A comprehensive democratic reform requires that objectives and intentions are effectively followed up with the transfer of power from state to regions with overall tasks, instruments and decision-making powers. The majority of the population today is slightly consistent with the rationale and objectives of the reform. That is why it cannot be called a reform, at least not a democracy reform. It seems that the Government and the majority of the Committee have a stronger confidence in central and regional government over regional government. This undermines the confidence of elected regions in order to carry out their activities in a responsible and comprehensive manner. Unfortunately, the administrative reform as it stands does not have an extent to ensure a lasting solution to the regionally elected level. We believe that the new regions need to be given a significantly greater political weight and to be given far greater authority and tasks than the majority of the population adds. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes to transfer more important tasks than the Government and the majority of the Committee set up, so that there is a coherence and coherence in the tasks and greater strength in the development work. The regions must be responsible for regional development tasks, as recommended by the Regional Commission. These are key tasks in regional planning, transport, industrial development, culture and education. That is why the Christian People's Party has tabled a number of proposals in the vote that should have been given a majority today in this Chamber. Most of the Christian People's Party's proposals are in line with what KS recommends on behalf of Kommune-Norway, and in line with what most state politicians have expressed in the Committee's open consultation. But the government parties don't like it. Had they supported the proposals of the Christian People's Party today, I think that Audun Tron, and many with him, would say it was much more fun. We wanted a reform – not just a new county municipality. In this round, the size was invited to discuss the tasks of the county or new regions. The size and breakdown of the regions shall be determined in the next round. The government has proposed a comprehensive process for further work. In two consultation rounds, local and regional actors shall come up with proposals for a new regional breakdown. The Christian People's Party is basically positive to open and democratic processes. However, the committee position as it stands today does not provide the necessary basis for a major change or reform in terms of tasks or size. The representatives of most municipalities, all except More and Romsdal and Oslo, gave during the open hearing of the Municipal and Administrative Committee on St.meld. No 12 clear evidence that they had planned or would consider joining forces with other counties if significant tasks were to be transferred to the regions. Expectations were made that the decision-making process by the Stortinget should provide the new regions with tasks and challenges that would prejudge a changed regional breakdown and fewer and larger regions. But, as I said, the administrative reform as it exists today does not have a scale that requires a changed regional breakdown. The Christian People's Party is committed to and pleased that there is a broad majority in the United Kingdom for three elected levels in Norway. This is clearly stated in the setting. Work on transferring new tasks from country to region should continue in the further debate and process that is taking place locally and regionally. The Christian People's Party believes that in the ongoing consultation process one should also listen to recordings relating to tasks. One can't close the door now. For this reason, the Christian People’s Party has proposed that the Government should ‘assess input from municipalities and county councils in terms of future tasks and responsibilities for the new regions until final recommendation is submitted to the Stortinget Spring 2008’. And it is gratifying that the parties to the Government and the Left have now said that they will vote in favour of this proposal. So there's a majority in this room to keep the door on fire or not to close the book. This means that there can be new and holistic tasks for the new regions, as well as a decision today. It also means that there is a majority in the United Kingdom to continue to work on trying to bring about a real democracy reform. The Christian People's Party hopes that the government parties will be serious when they vote in favour of our proposal No. 18 today, that means that they will take seriously input from municipalities and county municipalities until spring 2008. Only then will a few see if the Stoltenberg government dares to rely on local and regional democracy! Then the work on the reform will be much, much more fun! Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Christian People's Party – good suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e508	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e514	Innovation Norway is currently organised in such a way that we have an instrument ranging from the local level to the international market. There is also an organisation that is fully supported by the social partners. The Christian People's Party's proposal to transfer the professional apparatus to the regions, in my opinion, will in reality take innovation Norway apart. Isn't the Christian People's Party concerned that this will weaken Innovation Norway in such a way that it will end up in business?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e521	Opinions have been divided regarding the NHO's view on this matter. Regional directors have clearly stated that a transfer of the professional apparatus will work and that an umbrella organisation could be good. This is about finding an appropriate organisation of Innovation Norway. The ownership and power of the instrument should lie in the regions, where all other development tasks should lie – in future, efficient regions. One may then find an appropriate organisation to ensure the integrity of the umbrella organisation Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e528	There St.meld. No 12 was presented and the disappointment around the country was evident, Bjørg Tørresdal was elected as rapporteur for the case – and by state politicians in the country felt almost like their Goddess of Liberty and rescue plank. There is no reason to hide that Bjørg Tørresdal, as the first rapporteur on the matter, made a vigorous effort to change the position. We know the result: there was no consensus between the government parties and the Christian People's Party. My questions to Bjørg Tørresdal are: What is the difference between the attitude of government parties and the alternative of the Christian People's Party? And what went wrong, since there was no consensus?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e537	The Christian People's Party agrees with the government parties in very much – not least that we should have three elected levels, and that we should strengthen the intermediate level. The Christian People's Party agrees with almost everything that stands in the position of the majority, but the Christian People's Party wanted to go further. We want more holistic tasks and to take the step fully: not governance through governance – indirect governance – but through the transfer of power, through the transfer of government budget items to the administration of the new regions. The Christian People's Party agrees, but wanted to go further. When the representative Tørersdal withdrew, it was about the process and about the lack of time to deal with the matter, because the government parties hesitated to give feedback. It is serious that the government parties do not give Stortinget the time necessary to deal with such a big matter. With regard to the content of the matter, the Christian People's Party and the government parties have had good cooperation. And that cooperation will continue, when the government parties now vote for the most important proposal, namely to continue working in the direction that the Christian People's Party will, in order to achieve a good reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e546	There's been a lot of big words. That's not what the representative Tørersdal says, that the process here at Stortinget has not been real. We've moved on toys, on transportation, on public health, on county agricultural boards, on colleges, on Innovation Norway – plus, plus, plus. The main difference between the government parties and the Christian People's Party was that in this round we did not want to put strong leadership on structure. We wanted a real process out there – good local debates where someone could input to us about the division. I'm surprised that the Christian People's Party has already wanted to draw as bastful conclusions as they have made throughout the whole process, both outwards and inwards in the work. It also carries the setting off clearly. Is it a good democratic position to draw conclusions before the process is completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e555	A number of the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made are not about size. So once again, I invite the government parties to support the proposals that relate to tasks and not to size and division, just so they say. There is agreement that this time it is the tasks that are important to get in place – which premise for further work. Not only the Christian People's Party, but also many different state politicians are busy getting into a good process. A good process consists, among other things: in listening to state policies. The central party must probably agree that the party's state politicians are not so satisfied with the government parties as they are with the Christian People's Party's position on this matter, as they have stated.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e562	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e565	For the first time in many years, there is now a reform that shifts power from the central level and state bureaucracy to the local populace. It is gratifying that the reform brings together broad support in the Stortinget. The Working Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Left agree in principle on everything. In addition, Christian People's Party supports important parts. It makes this a robust reform – a reform that will last for a while. That is good, because this is a reform of more popular government and less bureaucracy and decentralisation. The word ‘management reform’ is quite dry. It has also worked on the reform at times. But if one forgets this name and this comment, we see that it is really about how we want the country to be. Do we want a country with stronger centralization, where everything is to be controlled from Oslo – a country where you move power from people to state bureaucracy and the market? Do we want a different country, where the wallet and place of residence are becoming increasingly important for basic services? Or do we want something else — another development? We in the Central Party are convinced that we need a balanced development across the country, political governance and the will to govern both nationally, regionally and locally. We don't want to leave our country's development just to the market and to the state. I believe in politics. I have faith in popular rule. That is why I believe that administrative reform is an important reform. I can't understand those who so easily say that the new regions have nothing to rule over. Just listen to this: the elected regions will be in charge of all secondary schools, two thirds of the roads, public transport, most of the instruments for innovation and innovation, important tasks in land planning and resource management, all the means of cultural construction and sports facilities – and this is not an exhaustive list. I strongly disagree with those who call this little thing. What some so cheaply call small eggs will be absolutely crucial for the development of a region. Those who are chosen to be in charge of these tasks are given important and important tasks in society. Our democracy needs more political active – not less. A living democracy depends on the fact that there are many active participants and elected representatives. Unfortunately, over the last few years, we have seen that the number of people who vote and want to participate in political processes has fallen. I am convinced that to strengthen democracy, the job must start in the individual community and go up. Government action plans are not needed, but local communities have a real influence on the development of their territory. The very foundation of our democracy is local democracy and the fine-masked municipal structure we have – a structure that is adapted to our country and the demography that our country has. This reform provides the basis for the primary municipalities, and a well-functioning intermediate level is essential in order for us to continue to have a fine-skinned municipal structure adapted to local conditions. Personally, I am also convinced that it is healthy for the development of the country that municipalities and regions can sometimes act as a counter-power against state power. In the message, and in the setting, you raise the elected ones. Therefore, in relation to regional governance, we are clear that it is those who make elections in each region who are responsible for the tasks that require political judgement. The State administration of the future shall be a more purer and slimmer county office, operating with control, complaints and supervision. I am pleased with the cleanup that has been announced in relation to the future sharing of responsibilities between those who are elected and those who are not. I look forward to following the process and see how we can further clean up even more. The treatment now provides guidance on the tasks to be undertaken by the regions. Then comes the discussion of division. The majority in the configuration have said that no matter what comes out of the good local processes and what breakdown we get, essentially all of the problems are to be transferred. In the process at Stortinget, we have not taken a stand on the final vote, as we are keenly committed to having good local debates and have confidence in local democratic processes. It will be exciting to see what the conclusion of those processes is, and hence the further political work. Future regional policies will have important social missions, and all that can help to strengthen a living and active democracy is good. This reform does.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e586	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e589	Exciting opinions have been received from the representative of the Central Party supported by the Progress Party, namely to remove the statesmen. These came in the middle of the process and the handling of the matter. The representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, said the following: ‘The centre party will resign from the county office. The justification is democracy, legal certainty, environmental protection and soil protection.» He went on to say: ‘It is important that people who exercise discretion make choices. They do not do so, they are employed during their lifetime.» These are exhilarating statements, which are fully supported by the Progress Party. Why didn't the Central Party get a pass on this good proposal that was flagged so high? Is there any way to put this in when you are going to deal with the matter further – an open book? Is there anything the Center Party is going to try to accomplish in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e604	The attitude and the message are marked by a desire to cultivate the future government to have control and supervision only, and that what has to do with political judgement is to be transferred to regional elected representatives. In the vote, the majority also calls for the future name of the county council to be assessed when it sees the role of the county council. But what has been important for the Centre Party is that all tasks of political discretion should be transferred to regional elected representatives and that tasks of control and supervision should lie with regional states.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e610	The centre party will also vote today for the Christian People's Party's proposal, which until now has been described as a proposal involving an open book and an open door. The process in this case has not been precisely marked by the fact that the doors have been closed, and that the books have been closed. The Committee has been travelling throughout the country and has received clear views from state politicians and local politicians. The Committee has had a comprehensive consultation process and the door to the Committee and its members has been wide open. The same applies to the book, in the sense that the possibility of the government parties to make wide-ranging settlements in the Great Britain with the Christian People's Party and the Left has been present at most. It is therefore quite significant that no one uses the term 'open ears' to describe the proposal of the Christian People's Party. I would like to ask the representative: what new issues does the representative think will come that will be proposed to be transferred to these regions and that to date have not been proposed in the further process?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e619	The size can always - if it wants - add new tasks to the level they want to add to tasks. This, of course, also applies to the new level of the region. We who have been following the development of the regions for the last 30 years have seen that there have been processes all along, and that there are constantly changes. It will also happen in this context. What is important to us in the further process is not least to cultivate the future role of the state – or the regional state – and that everything that has to do with discretion is transferred to the new regions and the elected people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e626	The Christian People's Party agrees that the intermediate level is strengthened, both in the big message and in the setting, as it is now in the Stortinget. I agree that this will provide more popular middle-level governance. However, there is one task that the Christian People's Party disagrees with the fact that a transferor, namely guidance in relation to primary school, is currently located in the county and is to be transferred to the county council – or employees are to change employers. We have tried at several of the hearings to ask what is the reason. Is there going to be more popular control of moving guidance in primary school? The county continues to be responsible for complaints and other tasks in the primary school area, and is currently in good contact with the municipalities and responsible for this with the municipalities. Why in all days should a transfer of responsibility for guidance to the county?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e633	We are convinced that the future regions will be able to have a comprehensive education policy, and they will have a strong education administration that can see from primary and secondary schools and higher education. Now, thanks to this task transfer, the new regions have had stronger intervention with primary schools. They have received stronger intervention in higher education through the appointment of members of the Governing Board and through the establishment of binding constellation arrangements. They're in full control of high school. In total, I think this will be a powerful and very important and exciting arena in terms of shaping the future of Norwegian education policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e638	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e641	Finally, we have reached the date when the regional reform, or the democratic reform, as I would call it, is being dealt with in the Stortinget. This has been a big and comprehensive matter. It concerns the whole country, and of course there have been very many and different concerns to address this reform. The parties to the Government and the Left are united on the majority position that has now been presented. For me and the Left, it has been very important to contribute to the widest possible majority of a reform that contributes to the maintenance of three elected levels in Norway. Therefore this is also a great day, seen with my eyes. As a Finnmark representative, it is particularly important that we maintain three elected levels in our country. Maybe it's so that the farther away from the center of power here in the capital one comes, the easier it is to see how important it is with three elected levels in our administration. We have a very long country to deal with, where people live very different lives, depending on where they live in the country. Of course, this has to do with geography and distances, but it also has to do with different cultures. In my work on this reform, three words have followed me as a hindrance. It's proximity, belonging and identity. Me and Left have a sincere desire for people to have a real opportunity to participate and shape the future and development where they live. We don't want people to be just statists and spectators in their lives. In Finland, but also in the rest of the country, people need to have an arena where they can meet at county level in order to come up with solutions that benefit the development of their part of the country. Had our country looked completely different, for example. As Switzerland, and had been lying down here around the Oslofjord, this case had been quite another. With the current majority position, local democracy will be strengthened by maintaining the intermediate level and carrying out more tasks, as well as by not taking tasks from the municipalities. A strong and decentralised democracy is important to balance the power of the state and an ever-increasing centralisation, and a reform of the intermediate level is no new issue. Since its establishment in 1976, today's county has been a pleasant target for change, either in itself or in the context of the municipal structure. Today’s debate can easily be traced back to the work of the Christiansen Committee in the early 1990s. Since that time we have had two great news messages that have dealt with this, St.meld. No 34 for 2000-2001 and St.meld. No 19 for 2001-2002. What we adopt today has a lot of both of these messages in it. In addition to the two major messages mentioned above, there have also been two Commissions active in recent years, the District Commission and the Local Democratic Commission. The district commission is far from regionalising Norway, while the local democracy commission focuses more on tasks and governance and less on structures. On the basis of the 1975 administrative reform, the tasks and roles of the county were to be changed and tasks reduced. The tasks were mainly to be linked to the follow-up and supervision of the municipalities and the function of the Board of Appeal. Developments since then have been marked by a gradual growth in the county's tasks and the gradual decommunition of the county's tasks through several reforms, the extent to which welfare tasks such as hospitals, child protection and drug care have been transferred to the state. With this history clearly in mind, a clear decision by the National Government of the Left and the Municipal Conference in September 2006, it has been an important issue for the Left to contribute to as broad a majority as possible for a higher middle level of administration. We believe that today's decisions will help to ensure more popular government and stronger local democracy, and that this will help to curb the growing centralisation in Norway. Three important premises for the Left have been that there should be three public administration levels. Adjustments to the county boundaries shall be made on a voluntary basis and no tasks shall be taken from the primary municipalities. Then we have also said that we primarily want hospital management to be returned to the intermediate level, and that we want the unit state as a model for the intermediate level. So the left believes that with today's decisions, we are involved in ensuring a continued middle level of government, but we see that there are challenges ahead of us. Tasks will help to distribute power and resources across the country. There must be both important decisions and money in the pot to contribute to decentralisation and distribution. Transport and road are perhaps one of the tasks that are now being moved on, which will contribute most to creating a popular uprising on the intermediate level, and place a clearer responsibility at this political level. In order to further contribute to a popular uprising, the Left believes it is important that the intermediate level should also be given a heavy welfare task. We've pointed to the hospitals. By today's decision, we believe that we are facilitating a revitalised and stronger intermediate level, which after 2010 may have an opportunity to regain control of hospitals. But it may also be that NAV, child protection or rehabilitation are the welfare tasks that are better suited to the new counties. This is a debate that will continue, but when the Central Party is 100 pst. to move the hospitals back, left is 100 pst. for, SV is 90 pst. for and the Workers' Party is 49 pst. For, it's maybe the most adjacent problem to look at. A third challenge we face is the future position and development of the Capital Region. It is therefore important that the Government also speed up the work of producing the announced capital message. Moreover, the population census of the county municipality is not much smaller than that of the municipalities, measured in turnout. As you can see, the municipalities are as bad as the counties are. The left was passed on to a local democracy commission in the last period. It has issued two investigations, and we could have made many exciting changes with local democracy and the People's Government if we had taken the task-sharing into account at all levels, the structure and the democratic instruments when we started the democratic reform. The left therefore believes that we must continue to work on detailing the division of tasks between the municipalities, the county and the state, with a view to further decentralisation and strengthening local democracy. Left wants stronger states. They are now given special responsibility for regional development, which will strengthen the Left. Today's counties represent about 6 pst. of public service production. With a new and stronger organisation, it is therefore the ambition of the Left that the ownership of hospitals and a number of other government tasks are moved back to the counties. With the transfers we make today, the intermediate level will be about 10 pst. of the public annual budget. The left would like to continue to discuss what other tasks we can transfer, what other state agencies it's going to be cleared of, and how we can create a great deal of commitment to the intermediate level. The important thing is that we are now moving in the right direction, both measured in government, tasks and money. The primary wish of the left has been to facilitate the new state, a unitary model that brings together the administrative tasks of the county and county council in a single body, and that is entrusted with a number of tasks from the state. We are therefore very pleased that the government parties have met us at this point, and that it should remain open to experimentation in the public sector. It opens up the possibility of continuing and further developing the unitary system, where there is a regional political will to do so. Development and cooperation are central to the Left’s unitary model. By transferring a number of guidance tasks from the county to the elected level, cooperation with municipalities will be an important task. In More and Romesdal, many of the municipalities, in the thorough evaluation of the single-cell experiment, have pointed out that it has provided closer and better cooperation with a coordinated intermediate level. In addition to strengthening the environment of competence and the potential for regional and municipal development, such a model will significantly simplify public administration for people. There is one door to knock on, one phone to call – in other words, people get a simpler Norway to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e677	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e680	The left is part of the majority in this position, and it is clear from the debate here today that the book is open, there may be new tasks. The representative now said that the left would like to join in. So it's a prerequisite for the government parties to transfer large tasks to the regional level. Then comes the next round where to consider which regions to have. With large tasks, there can be large regions, few regions. Does this mean that the Left will be involved in bringing together Nordland, Troms and Finnmark, More and Romesdal and Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland and Rogaland?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e687	I thank you for this question from the Right. I think this day is great because we are now involved in strengthening the rule of the people of this country, by maintaining three elected levels. The thing about volunteering in the further process is very important. Now, for the spring and the new filling set to be selected for the autumn, the filling set is to take account of the boundaries of the county. To speak for myself, when you're dealing with a large region of Northern Norway, I think it's very important that we take into account what people themselves think about this. Several surveys have been carried out in Finnmark, where Finnmark will be maintained as a region of its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e696	The President reminds us that all statements should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e699	The Christian People's Party and the Left often agree on a lot in policy – on three levels of government and on a future possibility of bringing hospitals back to the regions. It did not mention the representative of the Left in its statement. But we have a note that we would like to assess welfare and health tasks transferred to the regions. It was a great surprise to the Christian People's Party that the Left does not support our proposals in the vote. A few days ago, I met some left-wing politicians in Förde who came to me and asked: Why does the Left not support the good proposals of the Christian People's Party, because there is no danger that those proposals will lead to massive mergers? The left has also seen that there is no danger in those problems. The states are able to handle much larger tasks than the ones in the options. Why not every day support more proposals from the Christian People’s Party? What should be the response of the State politicians from the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e709	The left thinks that this is a great day, unlike what it seems like the Christian People's Party is doing. I believe that in this setting there is a lot of left-hand mind. We're busy with popular government, and we're concerned with proximity, belonging and identity. When it comes to these tasks, it opens in the settings for a further process. The tasks that are now in the configuration are more than those that came from the Government, so I am very optimistic about this in the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e716	The President reminds us that all statements should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e719	I would like to thank the Left for a good and constructive process in committee work, in which we have basically come to a unified position. The left also clearly knows the centre party's position in relation to the hospital well, so that's good. We have also had some interesting rounds and assessments in terms of unit blocks and a further opening for experiments there. It's been a good process, and that's why I have a question for the Left. We see that the parties with which the Left says that they can imagine going to government want a completely different governance of Norway. The Right Party and the Advance Party have today been very clear that they want a two-tier model, and the consequence of this will be very large municipalities. How would it be for the Left to be part of a government that implements the policy of the Left's possible partners? Could that be relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e728	Just this case makes it visible that the Left is the right center party, I mean. The world is not black and white. One day we can work together on the left, the next day on the right. If you're going to government with someone, it's about giving and taking, and I'm assuming that the Center Party has also experienced government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e733	The President reminds us that all statements should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e736	St.meld. No 12 for 2006-2007 raises a debate. That's good, because the message is about something as important as democracy in our country. Some people want completely different models than the ones underlying the message. Someone would go further, someone thinks that what's here is good. In any case, the treatment of St.meld is. No 12 a milestone for the elected intermediate level. For the first time since the county was established in the mid-1970s, this level is being added to significant new tasks. The notification involves, in this way, a historical breach of the developments we have seen in recent years, with the government of tasks previously held in the county. It is important for me to stress that with this message and the setting that is here today, we are able to reverse the trend. With that, democracy has also been strengthened. That is why I very much agree with the representative Lyskleätt, who stresses that this is a joyous day. In addition to the fact that the Government gets through the content of the message, I'm glad that we get wider support for the content of it than that, that the Left ends up about the arrangement at all points, and that the Christian People's Party also joins the Government's proposal on many points, sail if we look at the setting that the Christian People's Party wanted to go further in some areas. The communication, the timing and today's debate show that the basic distinction in these questions is between the parties who want two levels of government in Norway and those who want three. The regime of the Right and the Progressive Party will mean a weakened rule of the people and contribute to less democracy as a whole. State bureaucracy will have to take over many development tasks that the government parties believe should be governed by politicians with a regional perspective. Without a regional level, not only will the state gain much more power, but the Right and Advance Party policies will also lead to a massive community merger. We are now also recording completely new signals, not least from the Progress Party, both in terms of a significant reduction in the number of municipalities in Norway, and in terms of the willingness to move towards coercion. The reform has important objectives related to better coordination between sectors and value creation and employment based on local and regional advantages. Regions become a central development actor with a broad platform of instruments. The regions will be given a number of new tasks. I can mention some: regional environmental and climate strategies, regional R & D funds will be an innovation, linking and responsibility for research programmes, enhanced planning function, regional innovation companies, broader basis for stimulating business development, new tasks within the marine sector, coordination of public transport, management of instruments and interactions between state universities. These are important tasks. A wide range of tasks will also create synergies in-house by addressing sectoral tasks in the fields of transport, culture and research, which are closely linked, in a single body. A broader range of tasks will also make the regions a more interesting partner for business, municipalities and non-governmental organisations. There will then be no doubt as to where the central engine in regional development is actually located. Then it's a fact that the future regions will have a great deal of room for action in solving the problems they have and are fed. I expect the regions to take up the new opportunities actively. In the future, much will depend on what kind of action the state politicians, regional politicians, choose to take. With increased space for action and with the opportunities to design the new tasks they have, unlike any other, I am absolutely convinced that it will be even more exciting to be regional politicians in the future. I note that this is the agreement of the majority to proposal No. 18, from the representative of Tørresdal, on opening calls for input for several regional tasks until the Government makes its final recommendation on tasks and breakdown in the spring session for next year. I will be following this decision very actively, and in the near future I will send letters to municipalities and county councils, where I invite them to make recordings in relation to tasks, as well as the views we have already asked them to make on the regional breakdown. The debate today is not about the future division of regions. It's about the problems. But as for the division, let me just say a few words about the process further. I have asked the county councils to coordinate regional processes, where municipalities, businesses and organisations are given the opportunity to make their views known. I have requested preliminary decisions from the present state by 30 June of this year and final decisions in the newly elected counties by 1 December of this year. I'm glad that most county councils have made good arrangements for debates on this. A future division based on agreed solutions regionally has the best assumptions for success. So, as you know, the government will come back to Stortinget with its recommendations in the spring 2008 session. This is a long process, and we're going step by step. But I'm glad that today we get decisions on new tasks, and then it's just the debate and the processes ahead that will show if there are any additional tasks to be done when the message comes from the Government in the spring of 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e757	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e760	As the government council is probably familiar with, the Progress Party has added to the setting that we want the local self-government itself to make decisions when slot machines are outsourced. The head of the centre party says that the large group of the centre party needs more facts on the table to decide on this matter. My question is: what fact does the Central Party need that is so important in order to make a decision on this matter? Is it not important to stop the great rapporteur's insurrection that is about to spread across the country in relation to these slot machines? The Council of State has also stated that local politicians must now stop. I do not think it is an opinion that benefits this matter, nor will it strengthen local self-government. So my question is, what facts does the Center Party need now?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e767	I realized that there were two questions from the representative. To what I want local politicians not to sue, there is a consideration that I recognise that we have a number of regional politicians who would like them to be able to carry out more tasks, and that is a legitimate position to have. At the same time, I am now concerned that our regional politicians see that they are given important tasks and that they have more room for action. Then you have to be concerned about using the opportunities, making it visible to people what opportunities you actually have, and what results you will eventually achieve. It is important that you take advantage of this opportunity perspective, also because we're going to make people understand how exciting it is at this level, and that they are therefore also making their choices for the autumn. In the case of slot machines, that's not what we're discussing here today. I am concerned about local freedom of action. At the same time, we need to have national policies in some areas, and that is in line with these considerations we are now having a discussion about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e776	It's gonna be exciting!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e781	The county councils and municipalities are now in an important process of discussing the division as a result of the treatment of this position. It is clear from the previous opinions of the majority and the Council of State that there is nothing to be done with regard to the tasks set out here, which require a new division of counties in the country. In St.meld. No 12 points to three alternative models. They're talking about an enhanced state model with about the same number of states as today. They are talking about a regional model with few regions in a regional division, and they indicate that it will correspond to the division of the state road system. Then they also describe an intermediate model, which they conclude is not recommended, and find many disadvantages in it. Now that the state politicians are discussing the division, wouldn't it have been an advantage that they knew what number of regions are included in the definition of the middle model, so that they don't hit outside the blink when they make their recommendation to the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e791	The government has set up a process related to the division that involves listening to counties and municipalities. We believe that this is important, because we will never achieve an effective level of government if we don't have people with us on the decisions. In terms of these three different models, I think it's pretty clear to people out there who are going to make recommendations to us, what's in these. The government does not have an exact definition in its head of which number, for example: shall be in this we refer to as the intermediate model. Therefore, it is not included in the document either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e798	The Christian People's Party is pleased with the commitment of our state politicians from all parties. They are offensive, and they want more power and new tasks. We regard it as very good for democracy. That politicians want to decide must be unfavorably positive. So something that was said in the process. On several occasions, the Council of State gave good talks on St.meld. No 12, and there was a response from the audience that they wanted more tasks. On a couple of occasions I heard the council say, "It's not against me." The Christian People's Party liked to hear that it could come more than St.meld. No 12th@item: Now we know the setting, and we know that the door is on fire. It could now be that there are new problems. Do these words to the Council of State apply, that it is not against her, also in the continuation – when we have the setting at the bottom, even further in the process?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e805	I believe in decentralization and popular rule. I am deeply concerned that it has been important to get a new course in that area as well. This message represents a new course that is important. Then, too, with all my great ambitions in this area, I have to admit that we have to build stone on stone. We're going to go into a process where we're going to listen to municipalities again and we're going to fill up after the decision that's here today. Then it will lead to processes, seafaringly, also within government. We're going to take that process very seriously. Then we're going to have a good dialogue with the Storting, including parties in the opposition that are close to us in this case, and then there's going to be a final decision in spring 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e810	I think the Council of State should be a little reluctant to comment on a proposal that is being discussed at the national meeting of the Progress Party, as if it were the policy of the Progress Party. Moreover, the description given by that proposal is probably not at all in line with what the proposal actually involves. I don't want to let go of the slot machines. If there's something the Center Party talks about on every occasion, it's local democracy. Most in this room are followers of the principle of subsidiarity. We know that slot machines and gambling policy have a major impact on social expenditure and social problems in each municipality. Why will the Council of State not let the municipalities decide the gambling policy themselves when this is closely connected to local conditions? Is the celebration of the Centre Party to local democracy anything but inconsistency and empty rhetoric?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e817	The central party's jubilation to local democracy sees one, among other things, in the debate we actually have here today, which is that we want to add more tasks to the regional level, which will also enable us to maintain a municipal structure that means that we can have the proximity between ordinary people and politicians that we want, at the perhaps most central level of democracy, which is what is closest to the people. Here the representative sees what weight the centre party attaches to this. In the case of slot machines, there are many considerations to be taken. Yes, a relationship is local freedom of action. Another aspect is how we can help to support NGOs and their important efforts. A third relationship we're concerned with is how we're going to be able to stop gambling addiction. Getting these different reasons to jump, it's demanding. [[The President clubs.]] I recognise that in some areas we are dependent on national policies. [[The President clubs again.]] That – I'm sorry, President – will have to impose some restrictions on the local maritime administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e824	Just a comment on the last answer. I believe that the belief in local self-government is expressed through those politicians who actually trust that local politicians are as well suited to take the balances presented here by the Council of State, as are the Council of State or the representatives of big business. There goes the big split. My question goes back to the middle model. Clearly, the intermediate model represents a number between 5 and 6 and 19. So completely wrong, the number 9 can't be when it comes to hitting the blink on the middle model. If the process in the counties now leads to a willingness to merge the counties that end up hitting the number 9 in the number of regions in the country, will the government then force itself to arrive at a different structure than the structure they have warned against in the paper?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e833	When it comes to hypothetical issues, some years in politics have taught me to be careful with them when talking to the press. It should also be when you give the answer in Stortinget. I don't think there's any confusion in the local debate that the government has chosen not to put an exact number of what you put in, for example. the intermediate model. Now we're busy listening. We have also given ourselves freedom of action to listen, as we have chosen not to give an exact number when we have described the different models.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e840	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e843	There have been great expectations of the message we are now discussing. Democrat development involves many because it concerns everyone. We live at a time when capital has gained a fantastic vitality, driven by knowledge, new technology, internationalization and open markets. It follows very well in the wake of this development, but there are also obvious problematic aspects of this related to governance, distribution and democracy. The democratic processes have changed little and little, and there is a shift of power towards the market and capital owners. We have to face this development in working to strengthen democracy, and thus people's influence. But we're not doing these grips just because it's important to our democracy. We from the Workers' Party believe that the wit is equally distributed across the country. We believe that tools that we are now bringing to the regions will be better managed than if they were to be controlled by mass destruction or bureaucracy. In a flash of self-esteem, we should admit that the familiar quote «all power in this room» does not mean «all the sense of this room». On our journeys around the country we see many important partnerships, where states are the hub and engine of regional cooperation. The review tone of those we meet is not that the states today have too much power, rather that they have too little influence. Both municipal and state politicians are broadly in agreement that our regions should have had greater opportunities and more tools to create good and adapted solutions in different parts of the country. Many municipalities are in themselves too small to reach central authorities, and development work often becomes a competition between the different municipalities. The municipalities need a friend – now we give them an even better friend. The message is not an adequate response to the major challenges we face, of course. No single matter will give an adequate answer. It's the many changes, the thousand steps, that bring us closer to the goal. We are pleased that the Left fully supports us, and appreciate that the Christian People's Party also supports us on what is the main track, namely strengthening the regionally elected level. The Left Party and the Christian People's Party differ here from the Right Party in a decisive way. On the other hand, the Right Party and the Advance Party will have a different development. They want to lower the regionally elected level. That the Progress Party, as an extreme right-wing party, will weaken the People's Government in favour of more market governance, is not surprising. The fact that the Right wants more control from the office in Oslo is not surprising either. However, it is paradoxical that parties that claim to be the most common to people want people to have less opportunity to influence their own lives, and that more should be left to bureaucracy. The right-hand side model will force major changes in today's municipal structure. But there's not much talk about, either from the Right or from the Advance Party. Why? Well, probably because both parties know that there is no popular support for a massive municipal merger, as it is added from the right. Most people are not supporters of the Right Party and the Advance Party's policies, nor in this area. Here I have a resounding fresh edition of the Municipal Report, where progress party rapporteurs are out there warning the parties against coercion now in front of the national meeting – not because they agree with the government parties that it is not possible on the one hand to talk about local democracy, and then on the other hand to coercion municipalities, no, it is because more fears that yes to coercion will harm the party in the election campaign. Well, that's how a populist party governs its policy. When we see what the Right did to the municipalities during the four years they sat with the Minister of State and the Minister of Finance, I think the few are impressed that they now believe that some of the tasks that are currently at regional level should be transferred to the municipalities. This setting will strengthen the government of the People's Republic. Tasks are carried out from the Office to elected bodies. The democratic bodies are gaining more power, and by doing so we are increasing the influence of the inhabitants over their own everyday lives. The right-hand side and the front-hand side go in the opposite direction. They will strengthen market power and governance. In this case, both main options of Norwegian policy follow up their basic ideas and traditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e866	Let me start with first thanking the Government for St.meld. No 12th@item: I even think I will go as far as to thank the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV for the setting we have for treatment today. I want to go so far as to say that I agree with the representative Lyskleätt, and I agree with the government council Haga when they mention this as a joyous day. 'Cause it's a happy day. It's a happy day because what could have been a big and heavy reform that it would have been impossible to reverse, has become some puzzled things, a little more puzzled form that the day the Greatness is reassembled, will not be particularly difficult to reverse. So yes, this is a happy day. This is referred to as a democratic reform, as if one were to have a regional level with more power, is about democracy. With all due respect, I have a very hard time understanding that logic. Most people have no relation to their county, most people relate to their local politicians. They're going to have even less involvement with a larger region with even more tasks — which ultimately does not become the whole world. The reason why this has not been a major reform, we have understood. It's because the government parties have not managed to agree on so many things in particular. The ultimate proof of that is that the government parties are now going to vote for the Christian People's Party's proposal, called 'open book'. And that's okay, because you didn't agree. But that is also the final proof that the reform has failed, because what was supposed to be a schematic and a planned time in this reform, has been chosen to move on because one was unable to agree on the tasks on the day the tasks were to be set in this Chamber. Why have you set up such a plan? And why do we treat it at all, when you haven't even agreed on the problems yet? It is very strange that has happened in this case. In fact, there has also been a historical discussion in the committee, for I am aware this is the first time that we have had a case in which the case rapporteur has chosen to resign because there was no chance of agreement with the Government. So I feel it is necessary to make some clarifications. There have been a number of attacks from this pulpit today, not least from the government parties, which – with all due respect – do not hold water. It has been claimed that the Progress Party wants to coerce municipalities. No, that's not right at all. The Progress Party has a proposal to be addressed at the national meeting this weekend, which is based on a more active approach to developing more robust, efficient and forward-looking municipalities. But it's not coercion we're talking about. The representative Hagebakken knows it very well. He has been with me on a trip to Denmark, where we have looked at the exact model that is now to be considered at the national meeting in the Progress Party, and Hagebakken was powerfully impressed at the time. It is said that the option of the Progress Party is about public governance, government governance of the municipalities, and then reference is made to price financing. It's also wrong, of course. Unit price financing is just a fair way to channel money to municipalities. Instead of the way it is today, where we have a system where statistical tables and statistical distributions over time, composed by the department, direct the flow of money to the municipalities, we want a system where the need triggers the money. So there's no government direction, no government direction, that some people claim. This is a fair distribution, and the services that all Norwegian citizens should be entitled to are equally distributed throughout the country. It is claimed that the Progress Party here is looking for market solutions, and that it is on a collision course with our opinion and that we are working for democracy. The representative Arild Stokkan-Grande claimed it. That's obviously wrong. We use the market where the market is best suited. But the proposals contained here are not primarily about the market, they are actually about transferring what is real local democracy, that is, tasks, from the state to the municipalities, and not to a regional middle level that is absolutely not necessary. I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e887	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e891	This debate is primarily about local autonomy, and the content of that concept I do not think the Arild Stokkan-Grande Labour Party has actually understood. I'm also amazed that Tore Hagebakken warns against a weakening of the local People's Government in the area of Right Policy, because there's something Right Fighting for, it's the local People's Government. It is the principle of subsidiarity that tasks should be solved at the lowest effective level. It's the local populace that's in the center, which is almost the population. It's the people who have a relationship with first and foremost. If the locals are not satisfied with the locals, they can be replaced by elections. It is democratically governed at a local elected level. In the last period, the Municipal Committee of the United Kingdom was in northern Italy to study regional development and regions. What did we see? Yes, strong regions and many small, weak municipalities where the rapporteurs were just string cutters. It was the regions that had executive power, that had the money. What do you see in France? Yes, strong regions and countless small, weak municipalities. Is there a desirable development in Norway? For me so absolutely not. Fortunately, the Right Party and the Advance Party stand together in this setting. We want two levels. It's the best way to renew the public sector. The municipal tasks solve the municipalities as best they can today. And they can benefit from getting more problems. Different municipalities may have different tasks depending on their size. The tasks that lie in the county council today, we have always said that it is not a big challenge to allocate to two levels, and we show that in our alternative position here today. We're showing where we want to go to higher education. We say that we want better models in the field of transport compared to local authorities drawing up plans. When it comes to the question of primary and guidance responsibilities, where the government parties, or the majority, are now going to have this over to the regional level, I stand here as a big question mark. I've worked 25 years in primary school, I've been a supervisor in the municipality, I've been a supervisor at the county, and I can't at my best understand why this should be added to the regional level. I think I've found an explanation, it just has to be a desperate search for problems. The question is whether the title of this setting should not be "Hunting the Tasks". Because even with the tasks in the configuration, the third level of administration, or the intermediate level, will not be able to legitimise the existence of the intermediate level. Then I have to go for a walk into Åslaug Haga. The councils speak against better knowledge, and she definitely has no evidence to say that the Right will coerce municipalities. Of course, we care about the size of the municipality – that's why I look at Italy and France with horror and horror. I certainly do not want that development. But we're not talking about coercion. We're talking about stimulation. Stimulating is something quite different than forcing. Fortunately, Olav Ulleren, the head of the KS, was on December 29th in Firda and said it was time to re-examine the municipal structure. He said that it would have been an advantage to reach a broad political compromise on how the Municipality of Norway is going to look in the future. I am so in agreement with the heart! The local politicians do not want any over-communal. It's negative charge. The population also feels no proximity or belonging to a regional level. It's too far. Greater regional levels are even more distant and even further away from the population. It is actually the Right Party and the Advance Party that have the most democratic model – it is the model that gives proximity, that is effective and that is forward-looking. It provides good housing and work regions, naturally developed through local democratic reforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e908	We're going to have to hope to be able to vote through the entire article – it's kind of ours in the air for the time being. In the administrative organisation, the objective of local and regional self-government stands alongside other important ideals, such as the ideal of the rule of law and the ideal of the welfare state. It has therefore been an important policy objective that, in addition to transferring tasks to the regional level, an effective implementation of national objectives, such as: equivalent service provision throughout the country and legal certainty for the individual. It is the very core of the state's mission and role, and the setting determines whether it should be fixed, even if the setting and the message in other areas means a transfer of tasks that the state currently manages. The county must still be a guarantee for regional legal certainty in a range of areas, including: by carrying out complaint, supervisory and control tasks in relation to the municipalities. The municipalities are the most important welfare producer to the inhabitants, and the tasks they do largely do, but we have to have a system that ensures that the inhabitants get the services they are required by law, and that municipalities and county councils act in line with law and regulation. The county authority to oversee municipal enterprises and handle complaints on individual municipal decisions is central to this. The possibilities for citizens to complain to a body other than the body making the decision are central to the Norwegian administration. The county council's role as review body for municipal individual decisions is a well-known and well-proven system. For the inhabitants, this system is simple, it is reasonable, it is effective, and it meets the requirement of independence. I am pleased that the Progress Party is alone in putting in place an administrative court for municipal planning decisions to replace this scheme. The county should also remain regional sectoral government in relation to municipalities in a number of areas. The community of interests between the State and the municipality has conducted a close dialogue and a constructive interaction between levels on how to achieve objectives. The legitimacy of national policies is strengthened by the presence, visibility and availability of the country, both locally and regionally. The legitimacy is also strengthened by a country that actively seeks to coordinate its activities against the municipalities. Better coordination of regional central government is a challenge we should take seriously. NIBR conducted an investigation for the Renewal and Administration Department at which municipalities, county councils, LO and NHO in each of the counties mean regional state. It is true that many of the great notions that interrelated variations, i.e. that we have a greater exemption from state activities, and etat culture are probably as important reasons for fragmentation and poor coordination as the geographical breakdown. There is also reason to note that NIBR shows that changes in regional countries in recent years do not seem to have led to more efficient use of resources. Many respondents, who were municipalities, county councils and social work organisations, report additional meetings, more travel and longer processing time as a result of new organisation. The local democracy commission presented its final statement last spring. They clearly stress that the sea of hope between national and local democracy has become increasingly important in and for the development of the Norwegian welfare society. As a dialogue party and a link, the county will have an important role to play in the future for the good of the hops. The Government Party is supported by the Left and Christian People's Party that in the future one will have to see the division of regional states more in context and as part of a holistic regional policy. The government will, therefore, carry out an assessment of the breakdown of the regional state once the breakdown of the elected regional level has been clarified. In this assessment, the concerns of citizens and business as well as the relevance of interaction with other public bodies will be important criteria. The extent to which that process will result in a change in disaggregation is to be seen, but I have noticed the call of the majority that there must now be a great deal of emphasis on getting a coherent and harmonised structure. The Government, through the Sora Moria Declaration, has committed itself not to increase sick leave in the public sector, nor to add noise to the labour market. As the head of the senior employer's function in the state, I would therefore like to facilitate this conversion for those who have been appointed by the government within a secure framework and in good dialogue with them to join their organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e931	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e934	The county office and the whole idea of the government and the king's leading office, the county, are a survival after an authoritarian and old-fashioned system that we should have left behind for the longest time. Local politicians all over the country feel that their decisions are being tried by the petty kings of the statesmen, and that the real power is still at the king's and government's top office, the county, just like hundreds of years ago. Why couldn't the government in the reform take the steps completely out and remove the county once and for all, instead of continuing this authoritarian and old-fashioned institution from the time when Norway was a sovereign and was run by a ludicrous king?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e948	The county council is above all the government and Stortinget's apparatus. The county council shall ensure that the national policy decisions that we make are implemented. We believe that national policies are important to implement in all the municipalities of the country. So when it comes to the reform of the economy, to the reform of the nursery or to the coastal zone policy, the county must be the one to ensure that this is implemented equally, as we have decided that it is important that the provision of services is similar throughout the country. So I wonder that a party like the Progress Party, which is otherwise occupied by the citizens' so-called legal security, is not concerned that we should have a body that can be an objective review body for the individual citizen who wants to appeal against a municipal decision. Right or not, one shall have the right to appeal against a municipal decision. So for me, it's completely incomprehensible that the Progress Party is going in to create a new bureaucracy, as an administrative court here would be, as well as that one should take care of the county as a complaint authority in other areas than just in the planning matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e955	Concern messages have been received from the agricultural organisations, environmental and nature protection organisations and training organisations in the context of the treatment of this call for proposals. It has even given us signals from the statesmen, even of concern that the notification is making a contribution to the dilution of the professional environments currently existing in the counties in these areas, and a weakening of the legal certainty of the inhabitants and municipalities in these areas by the fragmentation of agricultural, environmental, education and land-use planning tasks. Something moves here, something there, without necessarily having a very clear relationship. A good example of this is the guidance in education. Does the Council share this concern?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e962	I share the fears and concerns about the conversion. Everyone knows that most of us are concerned about change, and this will be a change of pace. But I do not share the concern that this should lead to a weakening of environmental and agricultural policies. What we are doing now is keeping an important core of the state, both in the environment and in agriculture, because one of them is still going to carry out complaints, supervision and law enforcement. But then we also build up the professional environment in the same areas of the county, so that we get more professional environments that in total can reinforce each other and not least reinforce the policy we want to pursue, especially in the agricultural field associated with the reduction of cultivated land, and in the environmental field associated with the conservation of red-listed species, that we should stop building down beach areas, etc. Then you get a two powerful professional environment instead of one. I believe that above all, both the environment and the agricultural policy area will suffer, and not weaken it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e967	The Christian People's Party is concerned that this should be a democratic reform, that one should move on to tasks and put tasks under popular governance. It's one thing we don't understand, and it's that the majority of us today propose that the guidance task that the county now has in primary school should be moved to the county. Some employees are to be transferred from the county to the county. I can't see that there's going to be any more popular control out of this move. Nor can I see the reason for the need to have a comprehensive approach to education, because it works perfectly well today between the municipalities and the county council in terms of guidance and complaints in the primary school area, and we have legislation that ensures a comprehensive education policy. SV's Rolf Reikvam said today that one should look at this one more time. Does it make sense to move this guidance from the county? What does the Council of State think of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e976	If one divers every single part of what we're moving over, one can probably do it small enough. The point is that a lot of streams are going to be a big one -- it's also going to be a big one for the problems we're moving over. Some are big, and some are smaller. If you look at this, you can make fun of it and say it's a little bit of a problem. The point is that we move tasks on the ground floor to the county council, and then it's natural to move the guide to those tasks over as well. But what we're saying is that the county council is still going to have oversight, law enforcement and complaints, and then it's also a guide to what the county council is still going to have. So when you talk about guidance in the county municipality, it's related to the tasks that you actually move over. I see that as a democratic force.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e981	I didn't think there was anyone today who might disagree when it comes to the significance of local democracy and local self-government. But I hear from the Council of State's answer that a good one to continue institutions from the time we had a one-sided king who ran with a hard hand. I also take note that SV has blind confidence that the authorities that have taken decisions over the municipalities will not be able to be neutral review bodies in relation to the decisions that they themselves have taken. My question is: why won't the Council of State allow local politicians to have real power over their own future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e991	Unlike the Progress Party, this is exactly what the Party SV and the entire Government are doing. What the Progress Party does in this setting is to extract fish and aquaculture, and then take care of health, care, ground school, further education and social services. I could have read this from the Progress Party program. It is not the case, as the representative Ib Thomsen replied in a reply, that the price financing is limited only to the care of the elderly. It is explicitly stated in the Progress Party programme that the Social Security Agency should organise it. When it comes to babysitting, you have to give a sum to parents, and then it's up to them themselves what they want to spend money on. There should be no municipality to operate with. It is stated in the Progress Party program that the base ball should be self-controlled. We must believe in what is in the Progress Party programme. When they stand here and claim that the municipalities are the foundation of democracy, at least I can't believe that the Progress Party is the foremost defender of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e998	Based on the response to me and the response to the representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, there is reason to ask about the idea of the organisation between the county council and the county council. In the reply to Bjørg Tørresdal, it appeared that the county, together with the county municipality, should continue to have guidance tasks in relation to primary school. In reply to me, it was stated that the professional environments in agriculture, the environment and the protection of nature in the counties should not be weakened, but that professional environments should also be built in the county. Does this mean that there will not be a transfer of staff from the county members to the county councils?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1003	I think Bent Höie has misunderstood me. When I say they're not weakened, that means they're going to do the job with the tasks that are left. It is clear from the setting that important tasks in the environment and agriculture should be transferred. What I meant to say was that cork environmental policy or agricultural policy is being weakened. Instead of having one environment, we actually get two professional environments working on that area. I think the representative Bent Höie has misunderstood me. It's clear that what's going to happen now is that one should sit down and have a review of the laws in these areas. One should go through the portfolio to see what is transferred. Political awareness tasks shall be transferred. It's quite obvious. Once you have done that job, you get to see the size of the resources that will be left behind. At some point, resources will be about the number of people. Once we've crystallized exactly what kind of tasks to transfer, it's a job to do. However, in the future, the county will focus on law enforcement and environmental and agricultural control and supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1012	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1015	A lot of work has been done in the process of rebuilding our long-range countries. We've wanted to modernise. We have wanted to be visionary, and at the same time we have looked at experiences from other countries in Europe. The tasks of the county have changed over time. The structural changes naturally made the role of the county council subject to debate. Studies, consultations and advice have therefore been carried out to discuss the role of the county council in the future. Is it going to have a future at all? We have chosen to listen to ideas, experiences and needs that have been submitted. That is why it was exciting when the thoughts about the revitalisation of the role of county councils into a regional community developer were launched. This was innovative, it was exciting, and it was – and is – a huge task, and it is not finished. Such a large process of change involving many people is not completely completed either. Time should be spent on such a process. People want closeness to their welfare offerings. People want opportunities to influence. People want to be seen and heard. Our local democracy is just giving us the opportunity to do that today. We have a range of municipalities of all sizes. Those that are small have the same problems as those that are big. Common to all is that they want to provide their citizens with the best possible welfare and infrastructure. People should be allowed to choose where they live. But it's not easy to maintain all the functions that the municipal law provides for, if you're 300 people. It requires cooperation, and more and more municipalities are now cooperating across the borders of what we call IKS, intermunicipal cooperation. It is about coordinating common challenges. It's about lifting your eyes beyond your own limits and seeing opportunities. When the municipalities of the country do this, we are mutually positive. It creates a better offer for the inhabitants. We will not ignore the fact that such cooperation can also work well for our county municipalities. The municipalities solve the close welfare issues. The state is responsible for the great leadership. But who is going to help follow-up the government's policies in the major areas, such as: transportation and environment, local? Such tasks can be considered to be too large for many small municipalities, while the country does not have the same opportunity to have a local overview across the country. We have a country with such great geographic challenges that I think it would be natural for us to think more appropriately than absolutely the lowest level. We need drivers, motors, for good business development, for educational and research work, and not least for cultural life, which is on the way out in full bloom. I am convinced that more people would benefit from good cultural experiences if the management of regional cultural services were coordinated. In addition, I am quite sure that the development of good national concerts, the Riksteart and national exhibitions will be able to bring about a recovery as the environments get closer. It's probably also positive for the recruitment. I am also convinced that if the distribution of funds for the construction of cultural houses and sports facilities is prioritised regionally, it will be more structured and thoughtful in order to create a sustainable and good infrastructure. I am pleased that we will now have more regional planning in this field. This will not mean a worse arrangement. It's still going to have the same pot. It's just going to get closer to people. In addition, it may also be easier to follow procedural processes, and we will be able to have local debates on needs and locations and best use and pleasure for as many people as possible. That is why I am concerned that our new regions should be elected by the people – precisely because they will be able to exercise discretion and have to accept input. They'll come as fresh breath every four years, with new ideas for how we can continue to develop a region, because they're localized, they're solution-focused and eager. This applies at least to the representatives of the Workers' Party. I am one of the many Nordics who believe in proximity and believe in a structured society where there is a great need for local initiative. The attitude we're dealing with today adds to a new exciting player in society, and I think it's still going to develop and create good synergies – and I'm looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1034	In the option of St.meld. No 12 is under point 1.1. Summary of the following: ‘The government believes that there should be three elected levels in Norway, and will facilitate a living government with municipalities and regions that take advantage of local and regional advantages for the benefit of the population, industry and society at large.’ And then under the same point: ‘In the view of the Government, it is essential, both for our democracy and for the achievement of the objective of an effective public administration, that the municipalities are also in the future generalist bodies with a broad and heavy portfolio of tasks. The municipality structure in Norway is characterised by municipalities that are geographically wide and population small. In view of the fact that municipalities are already responsible for a significant amount of tasks, such a municipal structure makes it less relevant to assign new major tasks to the municipalities.Many public tasks are best addressed in a geographical perspective between the country as a whole and the boundaries represented by the municipalities.’ When this is the government party's view, it is amazing that they doubted a third level of government, which according to extensive hearing was condemned as uninteresting and without content. So State Council Åslaug Haga says to the University publishing company its time shift Plan that we need three levels of government. No country has dealt with two, she says. I will then refer to the discussion of the intermediate level in all the Nordic countries, where the starting point would be the same: lack of management with specialist services, challenge with the municipal structure, and not least lack of upliftment and legitimacy when it comes to the intermediate level. The result in the other Nordic countries seems to be that there is a significant strengthening of the area of power and image of a municipality. Despite considerable objections raised during the wide-ranging hearing of the Committee on Regional Reform, where there was massive criticism of just a lack of input/transfer of power and image from the Storting to new regions, the Government and the Government Party expressed doubts about a third level of government without real content. We will refer to the report «Region seeking tasks» by Jørn Rattsø and Rune J. Sørensen. The Progress Party endorses the report’s conclusion that the Government and Government Party have not been able to demonstrate a real need for the third level of government and that they do not in any way have sound enough solutions to the societal tasks to be transferred. Two reasons for creating regions are shown. The first is that elected regions should be development actors and contribute to an innovative and innovative industrial policy and better coordination of infrastructure, transport and land use. The second main reason is to improve democracy. We mean that calling the county municipality as a region or establishing elected levels that are even distant from the population will not solve these challenges – rather the opposite. This could lead to even more unclear responsibilities between state, region and municipality, thus weakening democratic control locally and centrally. In our view, the administrative reform should be based on the principle of subsidiarity, so that public tasks can be solved at the lowest possible effective level of administration, in the municipalities. Local populists, i.e. our municipal politicians, should be given responsibility for tasks that require local political judgement, adaptation and prioritisation. Our citizens will then be able to experience the consequences of the policy and, through choices, to exercise a close influence. Finally, I will again refer to comments from the government council Haga to the journal Plan, where she says the following: ‘We have not said anything about the size of these regions. I'm recording that some people are talking about five or seven or nine regions. But there isn't me! I think we should build on the municipal structure as we know it. It's in the municipalities it's most important that we have the proximity to the services. And that is where the Genuine People's Government shall live." I can then establish that the Council of State Åslaug Haga is actually in agreement with the Progress Party and the Right: transfer more power and form to our municipal politicians. They're the ones who know how to print the shoe. It is our municipal politicians who should have greater political power to control their local conditions, and thus have real power over their own future, without being overestimated by the state and state. I do not understand that the Council of State wants to be trodden through a level of government that does not even support many of the Central Party's own state politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1075	Today, we are dealing with a very important reform for our citizens, both in the countryside and in the city. The majority of the Committee emphasises in its position that this reform is a democratic reform that strengthens the regional level, and I agree with that. I am also pleased that the regional idea has such a wide space in Stortinget. I have no doubt that what is going to happen here will be a good and democratic system that will serve our citizens in a good way. I notice that the Progress Party and the Right are proposing to remove a level of government in society. They will put an end to the county without creating new regions. At the same time, I note that the representatives of the same parties are also working hard to initiate a comprehensive community merger. There must be coercion here, when they are so strongly correcting the government and the bulk of the population on this issue. There's talk of stimulation here today from that team. Then it's close to asking, what kind of stimulus is this about the economic starvation with which these batches were feeding in the last period? In my view, the combination of the closure of the regional level and the implementation of a comprehensive municipal merger will clearly weaken local democracy and lead to decisions being taken much further away from those involved – our citizens. That is the proximity that promotes democracy. The transparency and opportunities to influence one's own everyday life and community are still important for people in today's technological and globalised world. I often notice how different the world and the country can be seen here in Stortinget. It's not that easy to sit in one part of the country and would settle in all conditions in a completely different part of the country. We can't put the same template for the whole country and look at the country, for example. Based on the conditions in Oslo, and vice versa – this is because our country is so large in extent, with widespread settlement in some areas, while elsewhere it is very dense settlement and other challenges. Nor can we just count the number of citizens when it comes to designing policies. We also have to count the number of kilometers and miles. This does not always seem to happen from a political point of view. This clearly demonstrates the importance of decentralised popular governance and the need to transfer more power to the regions. It knows best where the shoe presses that has it, it's called in an old saying. I believe that we are dealing with the matter today, are doing a good job of improving local democracy and moving decisions closer to the citizens. So it's this Progress Party will reverse, as the representative Amundsen said a little while ago. I will not dispute that it may be right to adjust any municipal boundaries, but we will not merge municipalities for the sake of aggregation. Such adjustments could undoubtedly be easier to accept with a strong overall regional level which has the power to take several of the decisions currently taken at national level but which cannot be taken in individual municipalities. Here, too, we have to look at what is best for those we serve – the inhabitants. Again, I remind you of the country's geographic extent, distances, scattered settlements, climatic conditions, etc. etc. I believe that this is all too often forgotten in many of the debates that are being held in many cases, including from representatives here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1096	In the introductory part of the Storing Message: ‘The Government will facilitate a living government with municipalities and regions [[...]] The government of the people is alive in the municipalities. Municipal self-government is important for further development, as the Progress Party wants, among other things. by basic legislation of local self-government. Other parties don't want to. Government through existing county municipalities is dying. The people are simply not interested. The county has no tasks which cannot be better performed by the municipality or state. The regional notification is therefore a resuscitation exercise, an attempt to secure state politicians and county bureaucrats new pasture. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this is like carrying oats to a dead horse. The government has not been able to identify a real need for the reform and has not justified how the regions should provide better solutions to the societal challenges to be taken over. One of the tasks that will now be subjected to regional destruction is the road sector. A majority, the Workers' Party, the SV, the Centre Party and the Left support the Government's proposal that responsibility for the rest of the national road network and its ferries sections be transferred to the regions, so that in the future the public road network will consist of tribal roads, regional roads and municipal roads. The transfer of other national roads represents a significant task transfer. The Progress Party believes that this is a poor solution, a solution that provides poorer road management in Norway, a weakening of already poor road management. The Progress Party believes that we should have stronger national governance with road management in Norway. Further fragmentation through regionalisation is a strategy for poorer roads. I quote from page 11 of the Storing Message: «The road system of the Member States is currently organised in five regions and a transfer to a regional level with much more subdivision will involve significant administrative and economic costs. The economies of scale associated with the current division of the State Road Service will be lost. At the same time, fragmentation of the organisation may create skill challenges in the road trade.» On page 45, it says: ‘The proposal will, as a whole, involve a larger administration of more than today’s employees and reduced scope for economies of scale.’ The Transport Economic Institute has also looked at the regionalisation of the transport sector. I refer you to report No. 804/2005 from where it says: «The physical planning and design of road infrastructure is carried out at regional level [[Regions of the road system]] As regards this task transfer, the Progress Party is in fact in agreement with the Minister for Transport, who said at the Central Party’s national meeting: ‘I have to admit it’s going to be pretty tough to split the five offices of 19 or 14 or 15. [[...]] And it's hard to ask the country meeting to spend $300 million on increased bureaucracy rather than necessary road maintenance." The progress party believes that it's not just getting tough; it's unwise, and that means we're spending more money on bureaucracy and less money on the way. It's going in the wrong direction! The Progress Party has noted that the Central Party decided not to listen to the Minister of Transport's call, but to support the regional reform by a large majority. So the Minister for Transport must now be in favour of a task reform she is actually opposed to! The Progress Party recalls that the Vegvesenet has just undergone a major reorganization to five regional offices. It has reduced the number of employees by 750 and given savings of approx. 270 million. kr – money used for road: for operation, maintenance and road construction. The concern of the road director is also the concern of the Progress Party. The road manager says this: ‘If the State Vegvesen is divided, it becomes less rational and more jobs. The concern is that the quality of what is now the rest of the national roads is getting worse, as the communication points to and lacks resources.’ The search for tasks for a level of government that the population does not want and does not need can therefore lead to poorer roads in Norway. We do not need this reform. It's a reform that brings us back instead of bringing the nation forward. Two-tier administration, based on municipality and state, is a better solution, also in terms of road management.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1142	Of course, I have respect for the processes that are going to be associated with geography in the further work here, but I still want to point out some aspects that relate to the capital area. Oslo and Akershus must be merged into a region controlled by a directly elected body. A reform to this end must provide the basis for better coordination for the long-term development tasks in the Oslo area. A combined region will solve important challenges in terms of land and transport, for the benefit of its inhabitants. And that's what it's all about: a reform for the best for the inhabitants. Many people talk about such reforms creating political arrogance. I think it actually creates more political contempt when our citizens feel that their transport needs are not being addressed, because they have to cross a border to get to work and politicians cannot always cooperate. For many years, Stor-Oslo local traffic has tried to be united with Oslo Sporveier, but Akershus buses are still not being stopped in Oslo centre, and Kolsåsbana is not being built. Now it looks like it's going to be all right with Oslo Sporveier and SL, and that's very good. But still, there's a good example of how we shouldn't control our society. This is also mentioned in the message, where the Government points out that the main conclusion is that today’s organisation does not facilitate enough to solve cross-border public tasks in accordance with important goals for society and the region’s objectives. Furthermore, the current organisation and sharing of responsibilities do not address the need for good democratic governance and control of this task solution. The governance challenges in the Oslo region must be addressed in such a way that the region becomes more functional for citizens, business and society as a whole. The majority also pointed to this in their comments in the setting. The Oslo region is a locomotive for business development, but there is also a large potential that can be exploited to a greater extent, with stronger cooperation and better governance. Today, the largest growth in the field of nutrition is seen in Akershus, not in Oslo. Akershus is part of the capital region, which today has over 1 million. inhabitants and 500,000 jobs. The region is growing rapidly, giving rise to major challenges in transport, regional planning and further training. Growth leads to an additional pressure on the environment, but it also offers great potential, both for Oslo and Akershus and perhaps also for Eastfold. There have been a number of discussions, including here today, on whether too few tasks have been proposed for the regions. But nothing is static, and when you put the new regions together, you can make adjustments. The positive thing is that our local politicians actually want to take more responsibility and participate in developing society, because the governance reform is about democracy. It's about moving power, responsibility and decisions closer to the people. I mean the work done with St.meld. No 12, in fact, many tasks are being transferred to the regions, which in turn will lead to regions becoming even more important players than today. I want to say a little bit more about business development, because this is an important engine in the regions' future. The regions shall be the central development actor, and the development of regional business will be a very important part of the regional reform. This is primarily about exploiting and developing regional advantages in order to strengthen local and regional growth. Relationships with instruments related to industrial development and innovation are important in this context. The Norwegian Research Council shall cooperate closely with Innovation Norway and the regions in order to strengthen the innovation strengths of the region, and I agree with the majority that it is important to further develop this cooperation. R & D efforts in the regions should also be stepped up. It is important to stress that, together with its own strategies, it is the national nutrition strategies that are to form the basis for the bringing together of Innovation Norway. The treatment here in Stortinget today is the start of a new regional policy that will benefit the inhabitants of the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1165	Although this matter is really about political structure and organisation, it is essentially about what kind of society we are going to have. It is about the distribution of power in society between central and local levels and between politics and what is market. The big difference in this case is between the Progress Party and the Right Party on the one hand and the other parties on the other. It's actually a natural consequence of the other policy divisions. The parties that will weaken the power of politics and rather leave governance to the market are naturally not particularly concerned with having good governance tools. This is probably also why the Right and Advance Party do not want to strengthen the regional level. When the Workers' Party wants a stronger regional level, it's because we want elected power and influence over society and over social development. It really has a connection with our welfare model, which is now being looked up by more and more countries. In the Nordic countries, we are able to achieve good results in value creation and also distribution. That model depends on close contact between those who govern and the population. Proximity and governance are important keywords in our welfare model. The multiplicity that we are discussing today helps to strengthen regional democracy and strengthen the power of politics in society and, therefore, our welfare model. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party largely agrees with the direction of this reform. Nevertheless, we have heard quite strong criticism from the representative, Mr Tørresdal, here today. In this respect, I think it is worth recalling that the Christian People's Party put in a government until the 2005 elections that did not take any initiative at all to renew the regional level during the previous enlargement period. An interesting thought experiment is therefore to think about what would have happened if we had a different majority, if it hadn't been a government change in 2005, and the Christian People's Party had still been in government. I'm pretty sure the consequence would have been that we had ended up with a two-tier model during this period. The regional level has been calling for renewal and revitalisation for a long time. It had not tolerated four new years without renewal. Then the consequence would be closure. In any case, I think it is positive that the Christian People's Party has gone from passivity to impatience in the regional case. It is good for the case to strengthen the regional level in Norway. I also do not understand those who criticize the Government for maintaining a democratic process in the matter. It would be a paradox if we were to carry out a democracy reform without continuing to add up to a democratic process. I am convinced that today we are taking an important and proper step towards the renewal and governance of democracy in Norway. This is what should be the main picture after treatment today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1180	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1184	Administrative levels and division of tasks have been explored and debated in many rounds. County and municipal politicians across the country have actively participated in these structural and task-sharing debates over the last few years. In Eastfold, various cooperation and pooling models have been discussed and tried to implement, including: test with unit state, aggregation with Akershus and test with task differentiation. None of this has been implemented. Instead, cooperation has been pursued across administrative and county and national boundaries. We in the Labour Party are clear that we still want three levels of government. We want to strengthen democracy both locally and regionally, and believe that regional development policy will continue to be so important for the lives of its citizens and that the authority must be established in a body directly elected by the people. We believe it is important for the new regions to discharge overall regional responsibility for areas such as transport, food, coastal and rural development, culture, regional agricultural and environmental tasks, higher education, innovation and internationalisation. The Authority’s investigation concluded, inter alia, that: that there has been a shift of power from elected bodies to bureaucracy, international bodies, the market and legal instruments. You don't have to be a power investigator to see that, but it's okay to get it documented. It is therefore essential that we strengthen democracy and the people's rule with this reform, and that we have more effective and coordinated management with clear tasks and lines of responsibility between the levels and with regard to all the administrative regions that are today. There has been a great commitment to the Workers' Party on how great steps we are going to take in relation to this reform. I want to say that the setting available here is a good starting point for further work on concreteizing the task distribution that lies in the setting and size of the regions. A few years ago, the county councils were given responsibility for regional development — a task that opened up a space of action that was not so well defined by the state. When I became a county representative in 2003, I experienced a great and focused commitment to this role, both regionally and internationally in the county municipalities. Today, there are countless cooperation forums across borders and national borders and under the direction of the EU in which the county councils are participants in order to achieve regional development. They are drivers of local issues in the fields of culture, transport, the environment, business development, etc. I feel that, in many contexts, county councils have already taken responsibility for many of the tasks that are now to be transferred, through the regional development role that county councils themselves have formed in recent years. Now, when they have formalized the transfer of more tasks, power and authority, and the size is clarified, I am convinced that the new regions will be a powerful popularly elected level, well prepared and impatient after taking hold. The time is overdue to implement this. I'm glad that it's the Stoltenberg government that does it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1199	We are discussing a major and important reform today. We are discussing the further development of our democracy. We're discussing bringing power closer to the people. When we started this important work, we had an opportunity to be bold. We had the opportunity to show a strong willingness to decentralize, we had the opportunity to show faith to the regional politicians of the future, politicians with insight, knowledge, to take forward forward-looking visionary decisions – on the basis of a belief that knowledge and wisdom are evenly distributed, and that we should beat the myth that it is only when you have passed the Sinsen crossing that knowledge really rises to your head. Let me remind you of the reform we had in 1975. We carried out a political reform of the county municipality. There was a proposal for a decentralisation of power, and it was a proposal for a good economic foundation, which was predictable. We did the first one. We didn't complete the last two. Let's take that story with us and not make the mistake again. What have we got? Yes, we can see the beginning of a construction project. We see the outlines of a journey that, if we're good at the further work, we can be proud of. We have had a political compromise, and – some say – an incomplete construction work. There has been a struggle between those who do not want a regional level and those who want a strong functional regional level – a struggle between central and regional and local power. Of course, we can imagine that this time we didn't get far enough. I don't want to be so pessimistic. I want to look at this as the beginning of a process on the way to a final goal: a viable, manageable, sustainable regional level, not a level based on a struggle against central power, but based on a strengthened democratic development. We will inspire social participation to welcome the reform and will be an active driver in further efforts to strengthen the regional level. [[The President Clubs Again]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1212	Then the president asks that a person respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1215	This is a democratic reform in which the people's proximity to decisions needs to be increased. Once three policy decision-making levels have been decided, the tasks of the regions need to be strengthened in order for this level to be legitimised in the population. As county rapporteur in Finnmark, a position I now have leave from, I have learned the importance that we have a strong regional population-driven level here in the country. The county has gradually been decommissioned for tasks over the last ten years and has remained in the role of regional developer, responsible for high school, health and dental care. The poor outcome of the county elections reflects the poor legitimacy of this level of policy among the population. At the same time as the county council has been depleted for tasks, the county office has been given increased tasks that have required political judgement. It is therefore good that this regional reform now gives a clear division of responsibilities between the state and the state-run regional level, by transferring tasks requiring regional policy judgement to the elected regional body. The largest transfer of power from state to region was made a year ago, when Finnmark’s property was transferred to Finnmark’s population. This puts Finnmark in a special position. We have been given a special responsibility to facilitate the management of basic and natural resources in Finnmark in a balanced and ecologically sustainable way, for the benefit of citizens in the county, and in particular as a basis for Sami culture, clean-up, the use of land, business and social life. This responsibility is well under way, and the people of Finnmark will be more closely involved in the decisions taken. In addition, the Northern Region Initiative of the Government has led to increased optimism in the north, and the county municipalities in Northern Norway are being directly involved in the work. The North Region Initiative is based on our unique expertise in the challenges and opportunities of the North, which we have acquired after many years of extensive cross-border cooperation. We are now being taken seriously. It is natural that this should also be followed up with several tasks related to the development of the county. It will apply in international cooperation with North-West Russia and not least in several regional fisheries management tasks. Much of the criticism is that here too few tasks are being moved and too little power from state to region. I believe that we have the potential to transfer more tasks to the regions, and I am therefore pleased to be able to do so in the majority voting. The recommendation mentions that the future location of the specialist health service should be assessed in the context of the evaluation of health establishments. That's good. I just remind you that we've had the hospitals before. [[The President Clubs Again]] I'm glad that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy is now agreeing to add new tasks and increased power to the regions. [[The President Clubs Again]] With increased responsibility in the fields of culture, transport and nutrition, we are well in the process of providing a stronger level of popular governance. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1234	The President must again ask that a person respect the speaking time. For those who may be in doubt, the speaking time for the current speakers is up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1242	The reforms we are debating now have been named several times – such as regional reform, governance reform and democracy reform. Of these, the last thing I like best is because I think that major changes in government should mean strengthening democracy. It is important that the regional level is perceived as a political level with real governance over key societal functions. This is essential for the level to have legitimacy in the population, and not least for a sufficient proportion of the population to find it worth spending time and resources on political work there. As a member of a county in the last four years, I see that this is becoming a problem. It may seem that the county has been running idle, without the very great visions of political work, precisely because many of the tasks have been taken from them. This is what I say even if I am aware that many people in the county around make a good effort. Several have stressed in the debate that few are interested in the county municipalities. For me, the lack of interest shown by the county councils from the inhabitants alone is not an argument for putting down the whole intermediary. On the other hand, the amount and size of tasks are highly relevant for the county communities to become strong and useful social developers and producers of important services in society. As a chairman of a municipality for eight years, I have seen that the county has benefited the municipalities, and that this is due to the fact that the county politicians and county administration are much closer to the municipalities and the population than the state can be. With several tasks, the utility will increase, and interest may increase. I think it's important to keep a strongly elected middle level for the future. This I mean because I'm busy with the best possible local democracy. The good local government depends on well-functioning generalist municipalities in a finmask municipality structure, and this structure again depends on an active and robust intermediate level. That's why I'm glad that this term is now actually getting transferred important tasks from the state. But what I didn't like about anything is that in many conversion and change processes, we tend to choose good Norwegian names and put forward forward words instead. The size of the unit in the future does not mean that we are forced to use the word ‘regions’. State is an excellent word. The old chiefs follow suit, and politicians can do that in the future as well. We can change the name of county municipalities to state, as we've done in More and Romesdal County, or find another good, Norwegian word. I have followed the debate on the division of tasks with interest and I am excited about what the result will be. Hopefully this will be a good reform, both leading to better governance and, not least, strengthening democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1261	It's been ten years since we in the Hordaland Workers' Party seriously started discussing the regional division of Norway and democratisation of regional social development. In my view, strong regions are a prerequisite for democratic governance of the development of the different parts of the country. With today's trajectories, technology development and globalisation, we see that economic development is going across both county, municipal and, to a large extent, national borders. If we are to be able to have democratic governance of industrial development in our different parts of the country, we must have a political level that embraces wider than today's counties. Rolf Rikham, in his speech early in the debate, had a great review of the development of democracy and the relationship with the nation state, and the limitations it gives. From the Right and the Advance Party, it is claimed that the two-tier model remains. Yes, with their political ideology and their view of the extent to which elected representatives and political bodies are to have an influence on social development, two levels are a good thing. For us who want a greater democratic influence on development and what ways we want to open up this development, it does not hold with two levels. In the West we clearly have an interest in a strong region consisting of Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland and Rogaland. Our counties are characterized by a great deal of energy production, energy use or processing, the harvesting of marine resources – and hopeless communications. That means that if we are to steer the development of our region where we want it, namely that we are to be able to take care of the settlement and have a social development that meets the needs of the people and does not aim to simply accumulate more capital, we must have a democratic level that can control factors such as economic development, education policy and transport. Without that governance, it's the capital that premises social development. Today we have the Western Council, which consists of the three counties plus the Moors and the Roman Valley. The cooperation here is good and fruitful, but we need a stronger body with legal authority and budgetary responsibility, and we need a elected body at this level. That's why it's important that we continue the discussion about the scope of the problems. But it is also important that we take this attitude and the decisions that are being taken today, and continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1276	In the vote, in the draft local policy programme, in the debate here and at the country meeting of the Progress Party, the Progress Party shows its true face. I think you can sum it up in a few words: it's centralization of power, more bureaucracy and fewer elected people. The progress party will force municipalities together. You can see that in the setting. That is a clear view of it. It is also seen in the local policy programme. If a small municipality doesn't want to, but the large neighbouring municipality will, the total population has to count at the vote, just to force small municipalities with larger municipalities. This is supported by both Vice Presidents, and Siv Jensen says she will listen to the debate. The Progress Party has also said that they want fewer elected representatives with fewer tasks. Everyone at the intermediate level should go away, 728 pieces. With 200 fewer municipalities, thousands of local populace are removed. Will there be more democracy, or will there be more bureaucracy? I'm pretty sure it'll be the last one. The Progress Party will turn the municipalities into state branches. We heard the representative of Per-Willy Amundsen in town. He said that one should have a single price finance, that the state should determine the contents of the school, the care of the elderly and the kindergarten here in the city, and then the municipalities should only implement it. Municipalities must order the services from the private sector; residents must have shopping. Municipalities must pay on behalf of the State and municipalities must check. Municipalities become state bureaucracies to implement state policies without room for local discretion. That's when local elected representatives really become spectators and inspectors. The advance party always rides two horses. In today's debate, they're like so much for local democracy, but when you look at the content, it will lead to increased bureaucracy. In the debate on tolls, for example, they are against tolls when we talk about it nationally, but when we get to this locally, for example. in Oslo, they're in favour. In pension issues too, the Progress Party is double. They were for a new model until they realized it was unpopular, and then they had to have the old model. They say they're against coercion and remote control, but when it comes to the piece and they see the reality, that's exactly what they want. They are both in favour and against the EU vote. They will have binding referendums, but not the municipal structure, as it says in their programme. I think what comes from the Progress Party in this debate is very inconsistent. What surprises me is that the Right has hung on to the Advance Party in the setting. I thought that the Right had a more principled and pure approach to local government than the Progress Party has. There must be a huge problem for the Left and the Christian People's Party, which has a completely different approach to how we should govern Norway, that if they want to join a civil government, they must rely on two parties that have a completely different social view – wanting to increase bureaucracy, reduce the rule of the people and pursue a policy that will mean more centralisation and less decentralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1291	The Left welcomes the outcome of the Committee's examination of this matter. The left is also pleased that in its time, KS set up a sample to assess the regional level of both county and county, which many already agreed in 1996 was over-modern for reforms. Sitting representative Dagfinn Sundsbø led the selection that later got the name of the Sundsbø Committee. I would also like to point out that the sample included people like Matz Sandman and Kåre Ellingsgård – who also have a past as county councillor and councillor respectively. The committee proposed, inter alia: that the county office and the county central administration should be merged under administrative management and given the name ‘state’. The report that was handed over was entitled "Received". This tells us that something had to be done. It was, and is still, frustration among both municipal politicians and people most of all over the unbridled regional level in relation to who does what and where to turn. Frustration is also rooted in the fact that cases decided through thorough popular judgements at municipal level, often discretionary, were — and still are — tried and decided by individuals who set aside the local, populist discretion of the municipalities. We can't have it that way. That's why I'm both proud and happy that More and Romsdal chose to become a team team test team. Here a good deal of work has been done, which I think can be a model for several other regions – because the unit state cleans up. Simplification and reduction of bureaucracy at the regional level is necessary and the unit has succeeded. In many areas, there is no logic in the distribution of tasks between county and county. In some areas, the county and county council also have overlapping tasks and competences, such as: in the case of spatial plans. The unit state removes double functions in the department. The entity body streamlines and coordinates. And the municipalities are clear that the county has streamlined their work, especially in such an important area as the spatial plans. In addition, the experiment has shown that through reorganisation, one has also saved money. The complaint and supervision tasks in the unit state are perceived as a critical factor in the model. In the experimental community, it turns out that high school jobs represent only half a year’s work. It's possible to find solutions to that problem. All the others work on tasks related to political decisions. Finally, I would just like to stress that my wish is that the government will take a positive view of the new state as a model for follow-up and follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1314	What surprises me most in this debate is the Right and Right positions. We who are so old that we remember the Right of Liberal values, can't see any trace of it in this setting – not at all – when they're trying to discuss the principle, or when they're discussing the concrete proposals. What is the right-hand user’s argument to justify their position in order to remove this level? Well, they write on page 8 of the statement that state policies are largely bound by state priorities, that their role is thus limited, and that there is no painful loss for democracy if these bodies go away. They further write that the need for central administration in the counties is gone and that this will bring significant cost savings to the country as a whole. What's in the setting here is the Right Reason, and there's not many traces of liberal values. On the right, it might even sum up when they write about the road sector and what can be moved to the municipality. What can be moved to the municipality is the responsibility for the bus cuts. The rest is state-owned. It's in this setting. This isn't a right of liberal values, and that's what we're now seeing again. Mostly they are in the setting together with the Progress Party in all areas, and this is both disappointing and depressing for us who have expectations. We're expecting something more from the Right in terms of principal considerations, but to the Progress Party, we don't have any bigger expectations. With regard to the Right, we have certain expectations that the party should at least be a little bit principled and discuss this fundamental – and this is what we are served. This is too bad, and it also shows the development that the party has been through in recent years. Finally, another matter. It's about the Oslo region. The majority write a lot about the challenges we have in the Oslo region. The majority say that the message gives a good description of the issues we face, and gives a fairly clear and strong indication that a political, regional level must be established in this area – that is, a rather strong and clear indication that in the Oslo region there must be at least a merger between Oslo and Akershus. So clearly and strongly this is written precisely because we have great challenges in this region. I sincerely hope that the Council of State has noticed this, that the Council of State takes this with it, and that the Council of State gives these messages to those who have political responsibility in the Oslo region, that is. Oslo municipality and Akershu County municipality in the first place. Maybe this could be a larger region, but it'll show time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1333	The Progress Party is also trying in this debate to present itself as a party that is almost genuinely concerned with local democracy. I really don't think it would have passed the Consumer Council as marketing, if you check the product facts, because this is in stark contrast to the proposal for unit price financing that the party is promoting in this case as well, and that several have been involved. I will refer to what is stated in this proposal: ‘The Government is asking the Government to wind up today’s framework funding system and to replace it with a new system of direct state price financing for basic welfare services such as health, care, primary, secondary and social services.’ Culture is not mentioned here, but it may not be random. This doesn't make a lot of local democracy. Who is it that will engage in local political work with such a system? What are local politicians actually going to do? It might have been interesting to hear the Advance Party elaborate a little bit. Because when the most important basic welfare services are to be detailed and priced from the state, one could actually put it all into a computer system, then those politicians who still seem to have any intention of operating local policies could actually go home, because with such a system, they are completely kicking away everything called local democracy. That is why we believe in framework funding. That is why we carry out several tasks – we have confidence in local politicians. But if I haven't found the FrP code, I think I've figured out why the Progress Party is for this system. That's because FrPs are going to be e.g. rapporteurs, after a relatively short period of time, begin to act in accordance with a policy similar to that of the other parties. That is, I suppose, because the party policy does not meet with reality. Then you have to be governed from the state, so it's further away from reality. Then there will be proper party politics, but there will be little local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1349	There has been an interesting and important debate in many ways – and it is still, of course. There is also a debate that is marked by emotion and commitment, combined with politics and common sense, although it may be somewhat variable to the extent of emphasising the different things. In 1999, I was delighted to hear from the then State Council Jørgen Kosmo in the Ministry of Labour and Administration, which spoke about the renewal of the public sector. He said something I'll never forget. He said that in Norway we have a population of approx. 4 million people – and we have a bureaucracy that could have served 40 million. He had an ambition to do something about this. It went quickly when he saw where the power was, namely among the voters who also work in the public sector, who put their feet down abruptly and brutally. Jørgen Kosmo stood still more like an illusionist – in contrast to what he really wanted, namely to do something about this. I think this is all about drawing a target group that is important as voters for the parties that today make up the majority. Then the question is, what kind of principles are we following? Are we governed by important political principles, or are we guided by what benefits us politically when we are going to elections? I assume that each one here can make up their mind about what my answer will be, but it's up to each one to figure out what you want. Then you have a great faith at the regional level. Now we've seen it in health companies – we've got a lot of politicians at that level. Has this led to success in health businesses? Can we say that? I perceive that the queues are longer, and that there have not been as many corridor Asians in a long time as after the arrival of so-called county council and regional power. So that's the success criterion for the majority. It would have been interesting to find out if there was also a success criterion for the population. And where does the population identify with its state? I've been in the county of Nordland with the next speaker. Then a study was carried out that looked at whether someone knew who the county rapporteur was. There were not many – despite the fact that he came from the local party, the Center Party, who are occupied by the local population. People don't recognize, people don't identify with the regional level. That's why, in my opinion, it's superfluous. Another thing that I think people actually notice is the pay level there. We're doing great, we've got seats in this house, but I'm recording with great interest that in terms of principles and counting for political activity in the counties, it's not that much worse than here. It's actually so good -- better in some contexts. So then you can understand that it's important for some parties to take care of their kinsmen, and it's so important that you use the people as a means to take care of them and position them out, so that you can show that you take care of each other, and that justice is done at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1362	The last speaker had an analysis of the evolution of bureaucracy. An attempt has been made to see how bureaucracy will develop under a progress party model. It should be of interest to read to the representative Ellingen. We can take that discussion afterwards. In the case of knowledge of the county rapporteur in Northern Ireland, it was almost 50 pst. who knew about him. The paradox was that the further away from Oslo the more people knew about their country rapporteur. And he can think about that. I was in my previous post concerned about how we're going to succeed in the further work to get to a strong and functioning regional level. I want us to take note of the overall strategy of the district commission. We have to have a regional level that is able to put on the bed a policy in order to meet the changes that are taking place in society, given that those who have the shoe on are closest to creating the best solutions. We must have a regional level that focuses on the broad policy, which brings about a decentralisation of power to people, which exploits the space of action in the narrow district policy – and there is a bit of the cloud in the work we are going to do in the time to come. So let's take a look at the hearing. It is with interest that I note that well over half of the country's county councils and municipalities have clearly stated that the state, i.e. we who sit in this room have a general responsibility for consistency between tasks and resources – that is what we are going to take on – and that municipal and regional levels must have a economically predictable framework to become a good development actor. In the further work there are two new prerequisites: we must have a local and regional democracy that is constitutional. We need to have equivalent partners in an interaction to develop the welfare state. Then we can bring about a new democratic development in our country – and then we can say from this pulpit to the politicians who are outside this Chamber: Welcome on the road as equivalent partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1374	Per-Willy Amundsen of the Progress Party said that I resigned as the case rapporteur because the government parties and the Christian People's Party did not agree. That's wrong. The reason for the case rapporteur's withdrawal was that the rapporteur did not get any more time, did not get a postponement of the discharge within the possibilities that were there, in relation to the debate in Stortinget today. I was shocked at that, and felt that it was wrong to stand as the case rapporteur when I was not able to control the progress. The thing was that the Christian People's Party, the government parties and the Left agreed on most things, both goals and content. The challenge for the Christian People's Party was that we wanted to go further. One must not present what the Progress Party does, that the Christian People's Party does not agree with the government parties of three levels. Yes, absolutely – but we want to be more offensive, go further and give it even stronger content. So if someone leaves this debate today and believes that the government parties and the Christian People's Party are on a collision course, it's wrong. We're going in the same direction, but the Christian People's Party will go further. And it's not just us who will anymore. There are countless state politicians, local politicians and also organisations that have supported a number of Christian People's Party proposals. Finally, I would like to say that it is positive that the Haga Council is offensive to what is being adopted today, referred to as ‘an open door’ or ‘open book’, namely that in the consultation rounds that come, one should also address tasks when deciding on the division. I see that as a support for it being possible to go further. I hope that the letter sent out by the Council of State is not only an open door or an open book, but also an invitation to say something about the future tasks. Because if you take it seriously, it means that our local politicians are going to draw the final picture of both the job portfolio and the regional breakdown. This will be presented next year. Such a division of labour that this round will be the decisive round will be worthy of a democratic reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1385	The representative Rikvam has expectations for the Right. That's what many people have, and we appreciate that. At the same time, it should be possible to have the expectations of the representative of Rikham and the rest of the government parties that you are at least so sober that you read the whole setting before you start quoting. That's why it's almost my duty to quote something from the right in the setting, and for the sake of order this starts on page 9, at the very bottom, so that the representative can follow with him. It says, among other things. wanting to strengthen democracy and rule by ‘decentralising decisions to people most, municipalities and communities’. It's among our core values. In other words, the Progress Party is with us on these points. Then we go on to say in our attitude that we want a ‘more efficient and simpler public sector’. We want to take advantage of Norway’s advantage as a small country where there is ‘nearness between voters and elected people’. We also go on to say that we want ‘natural housing and work regions, combined with the possibility of common national bets’. Finally, under the indents, it says that we want to ‘follow effectively national targets such as sustainable development, equivalent services and legal certainty for individuals’. These are exactly the liberal core values that have always marked the Right, the core values that we stand and fight for every single day, which obviously have gone past the representative Rikvam's house. When the representative Ellingsen says that this is an interesting debate, it is one of the points I disagree with – this has not been a particularly interesting debate. This has been a debate based on dogmatic and pre-conceived attitudes. The preliminary attitude of the Government seems to be that one has decided that there should be three levels, without being able to follow it with any content whatsoever. At the same time, when you find that keeping three levels must be one of the biggest things you do for local self-government, then the rhetoric becomes. Let me do a couple of examples. When, on the part of the county council, one operates either with compulsory schooling or free schooling, it is obvious that one of the two choices is effective in terms of self-government. Free choice of school means that each student is allowed to make the choice himself, and then participates in building up self-government. The fact that county politicians do it doesn't mean the same at all. So for area and planing. It is also clear that, in many cases, bourgeois municipalities are being overestimated by socialist counties. It doesn't make local self-government any better if you have a third level that develops into a supremacy. In addition, it is one of the reasons why you want a county that concentrates on law enforcement. In conclusion, I would say that something that does not work today does not make it any better by getting bigger.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1400	A number of claims have been made by the government parties to which the Progress Party must respond. The representative of the Battle Violence Vedum argued that the policy of the Progress Party in this context would lead to more bureaucracy. It's a reasonable absurd claim. What we want to do is remove an administrative level. And when we remove a level of government, there will be fewer bureaucrats. Fewer bureaucrats mean less bureaucracy. This should not be particularly difficult for government parties to understand. It was also claimed by the representative, Battle Violence Vedum, that there is a link between the number of elected representatives and the degree of democracy. It's also a fairly hopeless claim. Should we then double the number of deposit representatives? Would it have been more democratic? Do the number of representatives in elected assemblies have any connection with the degree of democracy? Of course, this too is a totally hopeless claim. I think the Center Party also realizes that. The representative Slagsvold Vedum, like the representative Hagebakken, has also made a strong attack on the piece price financing of the Progress Party. It is claimed that unit-price financing will lead to centralisation. With all due respect, we are talking about an economic system for transferring money from the state to the municipalities in a fair way – not as it is today, not that there are statistical models in the departments that are going to determine how much money is going to be transferred to the municipalities through the framework grant, but rather the real needs of the municipalities. So we are talking about a fair system in which the need for care and school services is crucial for the flow of money from the state to the municipalities. Of course, the municipalities should operate with everything they do today – plus what we propose in the setting. A number of the tasks that government parties want to move to regions, we want to move down to local authorities. We are talking about a much more democratic principle of subsidiarity, with a greater degree of local democracy – not the opposite, as it is said here. I understand why you try that tactic to attack the alternative of the Advance Party: you don't even have much to point to in the setting. I choose to hold on to what I said earlier today – like Councillor Haga – that this is a day of joy. The proposal that exists contains so little and is so puzzled that after 2009, when, hopefully, there is a very different majority in this Chamber, it will be a simple task to stop and repress the reform – and introduce two levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1415	I would like to refer to the representative for Skovholt Gitmark's reply to the representative for Rikvam regarding where in this setting one from the right finds the liberal values. Skovholt Gitmark quoted from the reason for our alternative model, while Rikvams quoted from our description of today's county council – which is not our model. Then the representative Stokkan-Grande had a visit to this with the market. He made it almost so that believing in the market is undemocratic – and at least contrary to the interests of the people most. But who's the market? Yeah, it's just most people. Most people make their own decisions. So when the red-green politicians all the time talk about one moving power closer to the people, the Right talks about shifting power to the people. I guess that's what's at the heart of the liberal values. Our local self-government does not stop in the municipal government halls, but in fact applies entirely to the student who is allowed to choose which high school he is going to attend. Several of the red-green representatives who have been on the platform today have been positive for the reform. Some have called it historic; others have called it a democratic reform. It is almost so that one has seen the whip marks on their backs when they have gone down from the pulpit – because according to the reactions of the red-green state politicians around the coast, the reform is neither historical nor democratic: This isn't after my heart, says County rapporteur Arne Eagle. ‘Puslete regionalmeldning’, says the county food rapporteur in Akershus, Siv Hov Egg. ‘There is no basis for creating large robust and potent regions with the tasks that the Government has now proposed,’ says Tor Ottar Karlsen. ‘No, this is in no way a proposal for reform’, says the county rapporteur in Hedmark, Siri Austeng. ‘For puzzles’, says the County rapporteur in Vestfold. "Death kisses to the county council," says Tore O. Sandvik. Stop worrying, Minister of State Åslaug Hagas is a democratic and historical comment on the ‘heart’ reaction of his own local politicians to this reform. On this issue too, right-wing politicians rely more on local politicians than on national politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1437	Social violence Vedum has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1440	The centre party is for decentralization. The Progress Party is for centralisation – we have also seen that in their way of ruling a political party. Of course, there's a connection between the number of representatives and what kind of democracy we have. Imagine if there had been five representatives at Stortinget! It had given a little poor democracy. So will local democracy. Of course, if one removes several thousand local elected representatives, local democracy will function worse. There will be fewer ombudsmen who can speak people's language. In terms of unit price: it does not cost the same to operate a nursing home in Engerdal as in Oslo. It doesn't cost the same thing to run a nursing home in Harstad as in Hamar. That's why the Progress Party says: We want a differentiated price system, because today's system doesn't have a goal! One will get a huge bureaucracy if one is to calculate the cost of each small school and at each small nursing home around the whole of Norway, calculate one price for the nursing home, one price for the primary school – one price for your daughter, one price for your daughter. This will not work in practice. It's a theoretical model. I am surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party are able to have common comments on such an important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1453	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1456	I record that when the Right wants to justify their position for their model, they do not refer to the quotations that I referred to, but they refer to other quotations. I don't understand that there's any difference. What is the reason is that one reinforces the rule of the people and democracy by decentralizing decisions to the people most – whatever it may be. But then it comes: to municipalities and communities. We're all going in for that. We're in favour of decentralization, what's in the message. But in addition to that, we have a reason. We have a political justification, we have an ideological justification – at least some kind of one. But there's none of it from the Right in this setting. When they give examples of things – as the county council is going to go away, as I said before – they mention that then what the county councils are responsible for within the road is to be moved to the municipality and to the state. It has to be decentralized to municipalities. So what's going to be decentralized to municipalities is a bus shed. The rest of it's going to the state. What you actually write is what I'm asking is that this has nothing to do with the liberals -- the old, traditional, good, liberals -- the values. I miss them here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1468	The representative, Höie, quotes several red-green politicians from their views on the reform. The thing about not including is that what's common to all these politicians is that they don't want the right solution. They want more of the Center Party's policy and government's policy. That's what Höie's got to say. The representative Per-Willy Amundsen, who represents a party that has just stood for shifting power upwards in the system, moving power from a political level into bureaucracy, I want to challenge with one question: What suggestions does the Progress Party have in this room that has moved power from bureaucracy to politically selected level?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1475	Rolf Reikvam stated earlier in the debate that he had no expectations of the Progress Party. I am pleased that Rolf Rikvam is standing up and saying so, because if Rolf Rikvam had said something else, I would have had to assess whether I belong to the right party. I'm glad that Rikvam creates an example, that there's a significant difference between SV and the Progress Party. I also believe that there is a great deal of distance between the number of representatives from SV and representatives from the Progress Party in this room. Then you could ask, why that? Is it because we have managed to express thoughts, opinions and suggestions that make people around this country feel that voting in the Progress Party is the right thing to do, or is it because the others have conducted such a good policy – or such a bad policy, as one sees it – that we have got more votes? It is then said that it will not be possible – or it will be enormously labor-intensive – to provide a basis for the implementation of a single-cost financing of services for our citizens. Then I ask: What is the basis for the framework transfers from the state today? Is that how you do it, and then you find out that the municipality is going to get so much, and that municipality is going to get so much? No, of course, it makes calculations based on current rules. Nor is there anything else in our proposal on price financing. But we think there should be a fairer assessment of this. We understand that it costs more to operate a hospital in Oslo than a hospital in Nordfjordeid in Sogn and Fjordane, assuming that there is a much larger hospital with a much larger population base. But the calculations that determine what they are going to get are based on the calculations that you get through the way that you implement them. The same is true of our funding system. We think it should be fairer, based on the actual situation, but that it is more labour-intensive than what is in today's framework transmission system, I can't stand to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1492	The progress party was asked what the party had transferred to the municipalities. It's a shame the Center Party hasn't brought it. The whole debate today has just focused on what the Progress Party and the Right want to transfer to local democracy, not least in terms of slot machines. There are also other claims from the Center Party, claims that we're saying one thing and doing something else. Then I think the Center Party should also sit there and read what we've written in the notes, and hear what we're saying from this pulpit. But I've discovered that the Center Party is talking to two tongues. Two central staging representatives from the Center Party, Battle Violence Vedum and Sundsbø, say two different things. That they have found a common denominator in this matter, amazes me, especially when Battle Violence Vedum wants to have small regions and says that large regions distance the population, and Sundsbø says the very opposite of the Battle Violence Vedum says. Violence Vedum says that large regions will create centralisation. Sundsbø disagrees with that. Sundsbø wants the hospitals of large regions, and Battle violence Vedum says that large units are not a guarantee of good hospital operations. Is the time of wonders over? - No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1503	One has to hear a lot before the ears fall off. I could almost not believe it when I heard the representative Rolf Rekovam standing up here and had not yet realized that the Right is primarily concerned with the local level, by the municipalities – not the central authority. So it's the municipalities that need to be strengthened in our two-tier model. Since Rolf Rikvam has not yet understood it, I just want to remind you that there are several state roads and highways, such as local rail transport, dental services, cultural policy, land and transport planning, and there is also a bus shed, which stands out in the municipalities where the buses stop. The arguments against our model are obviously many, but then I can only remind you of the four points that are arguments for our model. So our model can be implemented within today's municipal structure, but it obviously requires further development through the cooperation that municipalities have. It's natural living and working regions that together can further develop our society, which can be natural regions. Municipalities may have different tasks – small municipalities do fewer tasks than large municipalities, which can naturally have more tasks from the state. Of course, we believe that the municipal structure today can be a challenge, but – and that is the big point – we need administrative reform. But it cannot come from above and down, because some state politicians have stood up as strong and actionable and want a change. Administrative reform must bring the whole population, and then it must come from below and be built where it is natural. So we want more incentives to change the municipal structure of the day. We do not want the incentives to be removed, as the Government has done – we want to stimulate. I am quite sure that we will facilitate relations for the municipalities, they will stand up, and they will find natural areas to cooperate in. Should this lead to some community associations in a natural way, I can't believe anyone would have anything against it. But three reforms down on the population's head, I don't believe in bringing anything good to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1512	The Progress Party's representative, Ib Thomsen, is standing here trying to convince that the Progress Party is a party that wants to strengthen the People's Government. He has a tough task, because during this period and the previous periods, the Progress Party has a number of proposals that would just weaken the People's Government. Ein has proposals for more price financing. An advanced proposal for increasing the degree of privatisation. One has suggested transferring the hospital administration to a state agency, a state directorate. I believe the Progress Party must ask itself the question: with the Progress Party’s funding model for care for the elderly, will it strengthen local self-government, or will it weaken it? When the Progress Party in this Chamber reviews local toll decisions, is there a strengthening of local self-government, or is there a weakening of it? Some things consider the Progress Party to be so important that it does not even dare to make a decision about them. The EU sac is an example of this, because it is so important that it is not possible to leave it to politicians at all to decide it. Otherwise, I take note that when there is an example of the Flagship of the Advance Party in order to strengthen local self-government, one thing was mentioned by Thomsen, and it was authority in connection with slot machines.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1521	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1524	There are so many accusations from the Center Party that it's almost going to be a little festive. I understand why, because you do what you can to prove and try to convince that you're actually doing something in that reform, which I call direct puzzles. Then we can discuss the policy of the Progress Party, I am more than happy to do so, but at least we have to present it correctly. I repeat, as I have said before, that having a single price finance is no limit to having a local democracy at the same time. What it's about is ensuring good funding for services, i.e. that you don't have to put down sick homes because you don't have any funding, because you get a direct price from the state. Then the discussion you have here becomes quite hopeless, as when the representative Schlagsvold Vedum claims that the piece price will give more bureaucracy. The truth is, the price of a piece leads to the opposite. It is much easier to make calculations within today’s complex framework transmission system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1531	This has been an interesting debate, because it has clarified the dividing lines between the different parties in a fine and exemplary way. It's interesting to look at the answers that we get when we, for example, will know how to secure the secondary schoolwork around the country, which today is scattered on both densely built strips and partly on many small municipalities. It is the county councils that are responsible for the similarity of the offer, that there is a wide and scattered offer around that makes it possible if you come from a small municipality, or if you come from a city, you have much the same offer and the same possibilities. The question is, how will the Right ensure a similar offer? How will the Right ensure the smaller secondary schools around the country when they want a two-tier system? It was then claimed that municipalities or intercommunal companies should assume responsibility for the secondary schools. I want to ask the Right Representative, Holmberg, who defends this view: To what extent does the Right believe that it is possible to maintain the quality of secondary schools around the country in places where there are little people? How does the Right think it is possible to make equal offers in order to ensure that the offer is made through the economy of the municipalities or to intercommunal companies? What we're afraid of is that the two-tier model outlined will lead to a greater degree of inequality, greater degree of centralization and closure, among other things. secondary schools. Of course, the Right must take responsibility for that, if that is what they stand for. My question is, how is the Right supposed to ensure equality in secondary school provision across the country with a two-tier model? Is the Right concerned that we should ensure that the secondary schools can continue to operate in small municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1540	The representative Bent Höie has spoken twice before in the debate and is given a brief comment of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1543	There is a need for a short reader’s guide for the Centre Party, which obviously has not read the entire setting. The answers to the representative Lars Peder Breck's questions are very clear in the setting. If the representative Lars Peder Breck hears after the representative Höie talks, he will get answers to his questions. In residential and working areas, there will be a guarantee that there will be a wide range of services in higher education. It shall be a national right to choose secondary schools. The municipalities can run the schools either alone or – what will be most natural – with others. In countries that have free school choices, this works well. In my own country, for example, The free choice of schools is the best guarantee that our strongest district school in Saudi is not just a school for the people of Saudi Arabia, but a school that attracts young people from all over the state, even outside the state, precisely because it has such a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1550	What I'm asking is, are the Right still interested in ensuring the structure of the secondary school system in the future? How will they ensure the financing of secondary schools with the two-tier system? That, in my opinion, does not respond to the representative, Höie. For us, it is important to ensure that there can also be secondary schools in small places, and it is also important to ensure the provision of narrow lines. They ask whether you can maintain it with the right control system. We don't believe that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1558	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1571	The size then goes to voting on case no. 1 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1578	During the debate, 19 proposals have been put forward. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Bent Höie, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 4-6, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 7, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 8-19, from Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party The proposal No will first be voted on. 8-19, by the Christian People's Party, with the exception of proposal No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1672	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 18, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the input from municipalities and county councils in terms of future tasks and responsibilities for the new regions until final recommendation is submitted to the Stortinget Spring 2008’.» The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Left have warned that they want to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1690	There were several people who voted incorrectly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1697	Then we'll have to have a new voting. That applies to proposal No. 18, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1709	It was obvious that someone had not voted – that was the same result. This time, too, the proposal was adopted. There will be a vote on proposal No. 7, from Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the tasks of the State in the primary education area are not transferred to the regions.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1726	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 4-6, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1756	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1-3, from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-10.ana.ud1576e1803	There is no record available. So we're done dealing with today's maps. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to § 37a of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting is over.
