ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e44	Odelstinget shall continue to elect temporary Vice-President of Odelstinget’s Vice-President Olav Gunnar Ballos’ extended leave from 12 November to 7 December. The President is asking for a proposal from the temporary Vice-President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e49	I suggest Ågot Valle.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e56	Ågot Valle has been proposed as Odelsting's temporary vice president. Other proposals have not been made. Ågot Valle is thus unanimously elected as the temporary vice-president of Odelstinget's Vice-President Olav Gunnar Ballo's continued leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e70	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e79	The Committee's position is unanimous. The Ministry’s work has been widely endorsed both in the preliminary investigation and through the consultation process. The Committee agrees with the general assessments of the Ministry and agrees that the academic freedom of each scientific staff must be regulated. We do this even though this in Norway has been perceived as an illegal right. However, we believe that this approach is to bring the law of higher education into line with similar legislation in a number of other countries. With regard to some other important issues in the matter, I would like to stress that in the work we received a very good input from the student group, which showed that they broadly wanted to be included as a result of the quality reform of higher education from the first day – from the first second to say – in what academic freedom should mean. The student organisations recorded a legal text to the committee, and in discussion in the committee and also with the usual lines of the committee towards the department, we agreed on a legal text, which has been promoted in the matter today, as an addition to the purpose of Section 1 of the Law, where c) is amended in such a way that we are included in the list in the law, that we must also ensure the ‘principle of professional freedom’, and this should be promoted both in the ‘education of students, in other activities’. This means, therefore, that the legal text establishes what the student organisations presented to the Stortinget, that the students from the first day will be included in the principles of academic freedom and its practical consequences. I think there's reason to stress it this way, because sometimes there's someone who might get a slightly cynical view of what's possible to achieve. This is therefore a clear statement that something is possible, because you simply think wise thoughts and present them in a neat way. So this has got the committee's agreement in the way that I've now referred to it. As far as other matters are concerned, I should just like to highlight a few small points, firstly that the Committee agrees with the department's assessments and that the wording of «recognised scientific, artistic, pedagogical and ethical principles» in the first paragraph of Section 1-5 of the bill must be understood as being proper in carrying out the research, including the freedom to have differing principles. We also stress that the rule of law on academic freedom applies to both private and public institutions providing accredited higher education. The Committee takes the view that the addition of the word ‘other’ to the second paragraph of Paragraphs 1 to 5 of the bill does not lead to a change in reality in relation to the law in force. The Committee has taken note here of the fact that, at the hearing in Stortinget on 28 September, the Network for Private Higher Education stressed this and was also satisfied with the clarifications made by the Ministry regarding the relationship between the governing rights and needs of institutions and the rights of individual employees. With regard to methodologies, the Committee wanted to clarify that the principle of academic freedom is also emphasised in the context of research into assignments and externally funded positions at institutions. There is one dissenting voice in this position, and it is that the representatives of the opposition parties feel that they would stress that a material prerequisite for the success of academic freedom is to ensure adequate framework conditions both for universities and colleges and for the institutions involved in ensuring these institutions, for example. The Research Council and other important instruments of public education policy and research policy. This is also underlined by part of the hearing bodies. In particular, in its letter to the Committee dated 17 September 2007, the Research Association stated: ‘Recitals to genuine academic freedom are more often experienced in the form of a lack of resources and time than direct intervention by the superior.’ This side of the case is ample opportunity to come back to in many other contexts, including: during the budgetary procedure in Stortinget, but it is right for me, as the rapporteur, to refer to these comments from a minority. As far as the matter is concerned, it is as I have presented it. There is an overall committee that is behind the work that is at the root of the matter, and there is an overall committee that has taken great pleasure in taking into account the wise voices of the students. On this basis, I recommend the setting that has been promoted for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e108	The Committee has worked together in this matter, and that is positive. The bill requires institutions to protect academic freedom. But perhaps it is so important that the law obliges the institutions to promote academic freedom. We have listened with interest to the students, who thought that the original bill focused too little on the student's role in academic freedom. Other hearing bodies also support this view. We have taken the signals seriously, and believe that the changes made by a unanimous committee can help to bring the student perspective forward in a better way. The law of academic freedom clarifies how students should learn academic thinking and tradition. I hope and believe that this also results in a study day with more reflection and less reproduction. Hopefully, there will be one of several positive effects of more research-based education. It is also one of the most important intentions behind the quality reform. Not only is the amount of knowledge important, but also – and not least – the ability to apply it and to go deep through critical analysis and reflection. That's what gives quality in education. An aproposal may also be the debate we had here for a little while back, when someone wanted to introduce the study score progression beyond the norm. I think we should focus on more professional immersion and reflection. I initially said that this law should protect and not least promote academic freedom. From a student perspective, it is important, not least because academic freedom is essential in a general education perspective. It also obliges the institutions by law to take care of the interests of students. Finally, it is necessary to point out that this is not a new job. But hopefully the law we are now making will lead to more transparency and more reflection on the role of the Academy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e125	The Department of Ot.prp. No 67 put forward a proposal to legislate for the protection of academic freedom. The concept of ‘freedom’ is of central importance in today’s society. In the political programme of the Progress Party, freedom is one of the pillars. The party of progress is a party based on a liberalist ideology and the idea that every individual is unique. We have faith in the free market players who are allowed to unfold within a minimum of playing rules, and we believe that what Adam Smith described as the ‘invisible hand of the market’ will ensure that the whole thing is preserved. The concept of freedom has many facets. It is a great thrill from the ‘Peace and laws’ generation that in 1968 stood for free sex and free doping and singing ‘A simple song of freedom’ until today’s situation in Afghanistan and ‘Enduring Freedom’. There are many concepts of freedom, such as freedom of expression, freedom of religion, freedom from need, freedom from fear, economic freedom, freedom of thought, artistic freedom, freedom struggle and not least the freedom of the individual. In order for the concept of freedom to have a meaning, one has to see the relationship between vision and obstruction. Freedom will not exist without freedom. Since the Enlightenment period, the work of the philosophers on the concept of freedom has sought to prevent one’s freedom from causing the impotence of the other. Scientists and artists have, through the freedom they are granted, a special responsibility, but also this reflection may be threatened. It is not freedom if you can say what you want only if it draws the audience and sells advertising space in the newspaper or on TV. It is not freedom if university staff are free to write what they want, provided that it pays off in the university's production and reward systems. And it is absolutely not freedom if the researchers must substantiate the grantor's wish for results. Individual academic freedom is regulated in many countries. In Finland and Germany, it is the foundation law, while in many other countries, such as the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom, the United Kingdom and the United Kingdom. Sweden and Ireland In Norway, we have not had a law of our own that guarantees and protects academic freedom, but we have to say that we have had an illegal right. The legislative proposal we are discussing today will change that. The committee, which has been led by Professor Arild Underdal, has done a good job and given us a thorough assessment of various aspects of academic freedom. The bill essentially establishes what is an illegal right today. With an increasing share of external funding and mission research at our universities and colleges, in our view, a law-making process could lead to further awareness of the institutions. It's important to remember that freedom is something you want most when you don't have it. In relation to basic research, the awareness of individual researchers’ academic freedom will be of great importance. One of the points raised by the hearing bodies is the requirement for research to be based on recognised principles. It has therefore been necessary for the Committee to underline the ministry’s view that this is about proper work to be carried out and that there are no limitations in any way to being able to think new, untraditionally and preferably ‘politically incorrect’. Another topic that has been highlighted is the relationship between the institutions, i.e. the employer and the individual employee researcher. It is important to stress that the general right of instruction of institutions is not removed, but a restriction is imposed so that the employee is free to choose a method, which in our view is important to prevent us from obtaining predetermined conclusions. It is important to communicate the principle of academic freedom to students, not least in order to provide an understanding of what is in the concept, and to stimulate students to research through it. The Committee therefore has an amendment to the proposal from the Ministry which, in the view of the Progressive Party, is important to provide an understanding of the concept of academic freedom. We are then made visible that a research result is not necessarily the final phase or truth, and in this way we create critical and committed students who have the will for research and who have learned about professional ethics so that they can benefit from academic freedom. The bill applies to universities and colleges, but we have to remember that about 70 pst. by the total research effort in Norway is carried out within organisations not covered by this Act. It concerns enterprises, research institutes, health enterprises and other knowledge institutions. There are now considerable differences between the research and development activities carried out by an enterprise to develop its own products or production processes and the research carried out by a university or higher education institution as part of a more general development of new knowledge. Universities and higher education institutions have a special responsibility for basic research and research training, which is precisely designed to develop more general knowledge and build up competences. Differences in the nature of the business may have an impact on the principles underlying governance, management and organisation. The premises and reasoning used in the assessment of universities and higher education institutions cannot automatically be applied to all other research organisations. That being said, in the opinion of the Progress Party, there is an important principle that should apply to all scientific search for true knowledge and understanding, irrespective of where it takes place, and that is the protection of the professional integrity of each researcher and teacher. In order to uphold this principle, it is essential, in the opinion of the Progress Party, that individual researchers and teachers are protected and able to exercise their academic freedom — a freedom under responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e153	It is with great satisfaction that I can state that the proposal for the legalisation of individual academic freedom has made clear a great deal of consensus among the members of the Committee. It is also true that there has been a great deal of consensus among all the bodies that have examined the proposal, from the Underdal Committee through the consultative bodies of the Department, and now also the Committee. The law of academic freedom is then also very well anchored. Already in St.meld. No 20 for 2004-2005, the «Vilje til forforskning», the research report, presented by the previous government, established the important role of research in relation to the general level of knowledge and the desire of the population, but also to facilitate open societal debate and a well-functioning democracy. The focus on the transparency, freedom and independence of research was also set out in the Ministry of Education and Research’s proposal on new university and higher education laws. It was thought that it was particularly important to legislate for institutions' academic freedom in relation to the content of teaching and research. The Church, Education and Research Committee dealt with the proposition and stood together to ask for an investigation into the legalisation of academic freedom. The Underdal Committee, led by former Vice-Chancellor at the University of Oslo, Arild Underdal, got the job of investigating the important issue, and the sample was reduced just before the government change. When I do this review of the history behind the final bill, it is to underline both the consensus that academic freedom is important, and the consensus that has been during the ongoing work on the bill that we now have before us. But given that the legislative proposals do not entail any change in reality, but really just want to codify what is in force, it may not be so strange that the consensus has been and is great. This consensus has also been reflected in the Committee's consideration of the role of students in relation to academic freedom, where students have made a valuable contribution to the Committee and also gained an impact on their views. We have added something to the purpose of the law, so that the role of students in relation to academic freedom is clarified. It's very important, for two reasons. One is that students are also involved in different research projects, but it is also important to communicate to students from the beginning. In view of the broad consensus on the principles of this matter, I think it is a bit of a shame that consensus ceases when you start to deal with reality. I believe that it was necessary to have a fundamental review of the discussion of individual academic freedom, and I fully agree that the decision we are now about to make is based on principle. But it must also be that the principles adopted are taken seriously. The proposal states that universities and colleges must have good and predictable framework conditions to facilitate independent research and education. The Hearing Officers have also pointed out that one of the key prerequisites for genuine academic freedom is that the sector is secured with a good and predictable framework, and that this applies not least to the economic framework conditions. In a letter to the Committee, the Association of Researchers referred to the following: ‘Recitals to genuine academic freedom are more often experienced in the form of a lack of resources and time than direct intervention by the superior.’ That message was also repeated at the Research Association's research policy seminar on Tuesday this week. The right fully agrees with this and in this context has helped to formulate a comment that addresses this particular issue. The right does not call for the legalisation of academic freedom to imply a right to increased funding, or, for example: the consideration of research resources for individual employees. But that is not what the hearing bodies are asking for either. They are asking for predictable framework conditions. It's a little bit hard to understand that the government parties can't be part of that comment, because it's important. It is also, I think, worth noting that those who have heard about the matter have pointed out that very often there is a poor financial framework or lack of freedom of action that is the reason why individual academic freedom is threatened. It's very rarely structural grip. I think that everyone, both in the hall and elsewhere in the Stortinget, will be well-deserved to take over the nuances that are just on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e177	Getting the law on academic freedom is important for SV, because in our vision of transformation from a black oil economy to a green knowledge economy, our universities and colleges are with their teaching and research in the driver's seat. It requires research-based knowledge in education, in the open debate on society and in the development of new industries. Academic freedom is an important condition for ensuring independent and reliable research and education. Every day in my work I am dependent on research. As representatives of big business, we have to make decisions every day, and with independent research and competence in the field, it is much easier for us at Stortinget to make the right decisions for the future. This is why EN is committed to strengthening universities and higher education and research, including school research. Universities and higher education have an important role in society and a social mission where academic freedom and independence are central. Therefore, it is important that the academic freedom of individual scientific staff is now regulated, despite the fact that academic freedom has been considered to a large extent an illegal right in Norway as a principle. The bill requires institutions to promote and protect academic freedom. Furthermore, institutions are charged with the exercise of professional activities in accordance with recognised scientific, artistic, pedagogical and ethical principles. These principles are superior to all types of institutions and give a clear commitment to the management of our higher education institutions to govern according to the principle of academic freedom. The change in the law is an important symbol, and it is important to legislate for academic freedom, so that we ensure that the leaders of our institutions and employees carry this with them in their jobs every day, and in the goals they control against. Through recordings and hearings The Stortinget has had with student organisations, we have seen that it is even more important to strengthen the law in relation to the academic freedom of the students. That is why, today at Stortinget, we are adopting a change in the purpose paragraph of the universities and colleges where it is established in the form of law that universities should disseminate understanding of the principle of professional freedom also in the teaching of students. We assume that the universities and colleges will put down a broad commitment to conveying and including the values of academic freedom for the students. The representative, Mr Dørum, was in his speech on a subject that could be problematic in terms of achieving real academic freedom. It's important to have a good and predictable funding, and we're working on this every day. The government has invested in higher education. We've invested in research schools, 700 new scholarship positions, 240 million. kr to scientific equipment, upgrading of university museums. The university and higher education sectors have received more funding from this government than from previous governments. The ambitions of this red-green government are high, and we work every day to reach these. Corresponding time for research is also a topic that has been addressed in the hearings. It is a major challenge both for us and for the institutions to be able to achieve these objectives. This will be a theme of the Quality Reform Evaluation Communication, which the Government will shortly present. Free research provides breakthroughs in knowledge that change society and focus on our themes. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is a very good example of this. It is established that the climate change we are facing is very likely to be man-made. We've been warned. We have received good, concrete advice from a research panel composed from all over the world, and we are politicians who have to take this seriously and do something with this knowledge, through the decisions we make every day on the Storting. Ensuring free and independent universities in education and in research to avoid heavy short-term interests being given dominant control is very important to us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e200	In the Christian People's Party, we also enjoy the great consensus on the content of this proposition. Instead of clear fronts and sharp rhetoric, the Committee has managed to work together on improvements to the Government's proposals. It should be a matter of course for Storting's work, but unfortunately it is not in times of majority rule. The only point where the Committee is not grouped is the fact that ‘one of the main prerequisites for genuine academic freedom is to ensure good and predictable framework conditions for universities and colleges, in particular with regard to funding’. That there is no consensus on this, is in itself alarming and gives a poor signal of the commitment to higher education in the future. The principle of individual academic freedom is not legal today. Despite this, academic freedom has broad support and is part of common academic practice. Academic freedom is a matter of course, yes, a fundamental element of all higher education. But with strong demands for increased productivity, commercial exploitation of research results and a stronger demand for immediate social benefits, we see signs that this freedom can or will be put under pressure. Academic freedom is an essential condition for the university and higher education sectors to continue democratic values and fulfil their social role. Therefore, the Christian People's Party agrees that there is a need to legislate on the individual academic freedom of the university and higher education law. We believe that the bill does not lead to an immediate change in the rights and obligations of the institutions or of individual employees, but we put an important safeguard on the freedom of the future. One point where the Committee has amended the Government's proposal for the better concerns the student role. Like the hearing bodies, we believe that the student role has been too little included in the investigation. The responsibility of universities and colleges to communicate values related to academic freedom to students is important. It is important that students get insights into the essence of research and academic freedom right from the start. It will also strengthen the students' insights into their own syllabus. For this reason, we are pleased that a joint committee supports the inclusion of clarification in the purpose paragraph on the responsibility of the institutions for disseminating the principle of professional freedom in their own activities and teaching. By clarifying the role of students more explicitly in the law, students will be given an active view of the principle of academic freedom at the earliest possible time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e213	The Committee has done a very good job of helping us improve the law. I would like to thank the Committee on the Good Process which it has obviously had. Institutional professional autonomy and individual academic freedom combined with good management and governance are fundamental to the achievement of the tasks assigned to them by universities and colleges and fulfil their social role. Individual academic freedom is an important condition for ensuring independent and reliable research. Academic freedom has good conditions at universities and colleges today, and the principle of individual academic freedom, which is now proposed in the law, must be said to follow the law. However, it is important to get this legislation, and I am pleased that the committee agrees. The legislation we now receive from academic freedom will help clarify the content of this right and provide better knowledge and acceptance for the principle of individual academic freedom. The balance between the institution's needs for overall strategic governance and the individual researcher's right to academic freedom can be demanding. With the thorough work that Arild Underdal's selection has done for the Ministry of Knowledge, and the law we are now getting, we have been told what limitations it is legitimate to do in individual academic freedom. And that's this balance sheet that's important. Legislation on individual academic freedom could also provide positive leadership, clarify roles and provide a good direction for research carried out elsewhere than at universities and colleges. I feel the urge to link some comments to the Committee's comments on mission research and choice of subject and method. An external contractor has a legitimate right to influence the choice of subject matter and method and how the results of the mission research are used, i.e. the framework for the research situation. On the other hand, the researcher has academic freedom within the framework of the contract of assignment. And as long as the researcher fulfills his obligations under the agreement, the researcher has the right to carry out his research without the intervention of the grantor. This also applies, of course, if research is to move towards conclusions that are contrary to the contracting entity's interests. A researcher may also, on the basis of his academic freedom, of course reserve himself against a mission if the researcher considers that the terms of the contract lead to the project challenging the scientific and professional integrity of the researcher. I don't think there's any big disagreement about the Committee's assessment and the thoughts I'm making here. But it is important for me to stress this, because it has to do with the balance between the researcher's freedom and the framework conditions that lie in a given research situation. The Committee then also refers to the assessments carried out by the Ministry on this point. I have great faith that this change of laws will be an inspiration and a good guide for our academics.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e230	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e233	The opposition parties stress in their comments on the matter that real academic freedom has a connection with access to resources. Some might claim that the government's lack of investment in the CO2 laboratory in Trondheim has a connection with the fear that research results may be produced that are not considered politically correct by the Government. However, I will carefully ask the Council of State whether she, unlike the government parties here on the Stortinget, can join the Research Association's and the opposition's statement that real academic freedom depends on good and predictable framework conditions for research, and whether she thinks the Government is delivering in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e244	I have noticed that the members of the committee from the opposition parties have a comment on the relationship to funding research. I also noticed that the head of the committee was busy saying something about this being a fundamental discussion about the freedom of research, and we will have plenty of opportunities to come back to the part of the framework that concerns funding. I also see that the parties that have this comment say that that's one of the assumptions -- that's not the whole assumption. I would like to come back to this question in a budgetary context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e253	That's quite right, as the Council of State says, a fundamental debate. But it was basically the party trap of the Council of State, the representative Lena Jensen, who suggested that the economy also became a topic here, because the representative said that the ambitions in this area were high. In my view, then, it is a very bad thing that it is not followed up and that it is a political decision, because it can't be a coincidence that a single university and higher education community and research environment in the three budgets that this government has provided have come up with very strong criticism of the device and the profile of the budgets. That is why I want to attach a question to – and I would like to have an answer to – what is involved in the economic framework conditions and assumptions. We are given feedback – at the latest at the hearings held by the Committee in the context of the budget – that, in particular, the fact that freedom of action and the room for action of the institutions are drastically reduced as a result of the large budget cuts also leads to the disparity of academic freedom. I would like to have some comments on that, relating to the legislative proposal we are now adopting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e260	I would say that academic freedom cannot be measured in crowns and ears. It's an unusually important principle to stick to for research. Having said that, I would like to point out a dilemma that I can probably share with the committee leader. It is that the long-termity of research and predictability desired in this context are a demanding task to combine with short-term one-year budgets. However, I am going to do what I can to bring together the resources that are possible so that the freedom of action will be large enough – but I will again refer to debates on this in budgetary terms.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e267	I was actually going to give up, but I registered Lena Jensen's fresh offensive defense for the government, obviously based on the fact that through the promise of knowledge, you haven't learned enough about percentageing, because if you subtract 1.2 billion in plus and subtract from cost developments, it won't be that much again. But I'm going to take the chance to ask a basic question to the Council of State, precisely because the theme of money has now come up. I suppose the Council of State agrees with me that freedom and responsibility belong together, and that academic freedom can be tested if you have framework conditions that make you get challenged. Is the Council willing to think of an experiment involving one or more places in the academic world trying out a three-year method of financing that allows one to look in the context of one's obligations over a three-year period, and thus to look at freedom and responsibility in a way that, without distributing the large crowns here, is, in principle, willing to consider another way of thinking and organizing, just to give freedom a challenge, but also to discharge responsibility? So my question is, is the Council of State willing to consider such an attempt?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e274	I would first like to stress that the principle of academic freedom, individually adopted by the Odelstinget here in the law, is an important principle, regardless of what else is going on. But besides that, I will reply to Mr Dørum in this way: I am going to give the Storting several occasions in the future to discuss also the financial framework conditions of universities and colleges, only now in connection with the submission of the Storing Communication on the evaluation of the quality reform, and then probably after the Stjernø Committee has delivered its opinion. So I'm open to discussing and looking at variants of the systems we have today, and of course I'm grateful for constructive contributions to thinking about ways of solving the dilemma that I mentioned instead, the dilemma between the long-termity you need in research, and the short-termity that we have in our budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e279	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e289	The Odelstinget then went to voting in case No. 2
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e384	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e394	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-08-lower.ana.ud1755e448	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
