ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e74	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 45 minutes, the Progress Party 25 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left 10 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e83	St.meld. No 9 for 2006-2007, Work, well-being and inclusion, is, I would say, one of the most important documents in the poverty response of the red-green majority. In his declaration of accession, Jens Stoltenberg said: ‘There shall be no poverty in the richest country in the world. The government will present a comprehensive plan to eradicate poverty in Norway. We will bring more people back to work, so that more people can live on their own income. We will improve economic benefits for people living in poverty." It's a pretty ambitious project. And when the Storting is going to treat St.meld today. No 9, it is happening on the following basis: Norway is going down. NHO enterprises have adjusted the labour demand both in 2006 and 2007. One in three companies reports unoccupied jobs and recruitment problems. NAV EURES high-pressure jobs to assist enterprises with the recruitment of labour from the EU/EEA territory. Labour immigration is record high, 70 pst. comes from Poland and 20 pst. from Lithuania. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen says that Poland is saving the government's promises in the kindergarten sector and the transport sector. It's not money it's on, it's labour. Norway’s business surveys of November/December last year show that one in four Norwegian enterprises has used labour from EU countries in the last year and that every third enterprise expects to use European labour force this year. At the same time, we have experienced the strongest growth in employment in ten years. Last year, it increased by 81 000 new people, the forecasts for 2007 saw a further 40 000 new ones and a further 25 000 new ones in 2008. Unemployment is record low: 1.8 pst. in the fourth quarter of 2006, and since 2001, Norway has been at the top of the UN index on income, education and life expectancy, better known as the world’s best country to live in. But then we have another picture: one third of the working-age population is out of work every day, plus 700,000 people. It represents a loss of 500000 annual works. Some absences are of relatively short duration. Some persons are on temporary social benefits with a view to returning to work. Some seem to be excluded too well. And other people, they're the ones that never got the chance to try. We have well over 320,000 unemployed, many with a residual capacity that they like to exploit, but they don't have the opportunity to exploit. In the world's best country to live in liver 5.6 pst. by the population supported by the Social Office. It's the last security network we've had, it's supposed to be short-lived, but for some, this has become a more or less lasting income, either because they've used up their rights in social security, or because they've never had any. 3 pst. of all children in Norway live under persistent child poverty. We know that it gives inequality in opportunities that follow them for the rest of their lives. A second cross of thought seems to me to be mentioned in terms of poverty and the social office. I mentioned that all social welfare recipients make up 5.6 pst. by the population. If we look at all those who are defined as poor, with income below the defined poverty line, they represent 4.8 pst., i.e. not a full coincidence here between social welfare recipients and the poor. But if we go even further into the numbers, we'll probably find a crosshairs. It's not a full coincidence -- no, actually, it's a fairly limited coincidence, for only 2 pst. The population is characterised by both things at once, namely being a user of the social office and being defined as poor. And even less than that, just 1 pst. by the population, out of poverty via the social office. Even when we take social assistance into account, it's still 3.8 pst. poor people in Norway who do not receive help through what should have been the last safety network with which the welfare society can set up. In other words, the system does not work, and the reason why it does not work is that the majority of the poor feel it stigmatizing to visit the social office. That's why we have to do something else, and that's what the government is doing. It brings together three offices to one, and hopefully removes the stigma attached to the social office, introducing a qualifying social welfare programme as an alternative to today's long-term social assistance. So it's wrong when the Christian People's Party and the Left in the notes claim that the qualifying support creates an A and a B team. The A team and the B team are already there. It shows the numbers of poverty. In contrast, qualifying aid gives even more people a chance to get out of poverty. Why is work so important? There are no other ways of eradicating poverty, for example: by increasing social benefits? Researchers have shown that it would have cost us approx. $5.5 billion to raise everyone above the poverty line, but they warn against such a solution. It's of course because this is about something more than money. This is about quality of life – overall. It's about being a part of society. It's about contributing to the community that you belong to. It's about good social democratic values: delivering as much as you can and getting as you need. We have created a welfare society, but that job is not finished. Someone's still outside. The 19th-century society is not enough. In addition, the needs of society are coming. 87 pst. of the values that we have in Norway are made up of the value of work. For comparison, the value of oil and gas is only 4 pst. I mentioned instead the great need for labour. There's a situation that's going to last. That shows the demography. Moreover, economic growth is on the rise in the countries from which we pick up most of the foreign workers. It's probably just a matter of time before the Poles no longer find it interesting to come here. Therefore, work becomes not only a major instrument in the fight against poverty, but also an instrument for preserving the welfare society we have built up. We need to be able to mobilize the residual working capacity that exists in our own population. New figures from the Statistical Centre show that we have had the strongest growth in employment in ten years. At the same time, the proportion of part-time work is increasing. We see that the number of underemployed people does not go down either. The underemployed represented 97 000 fourth quarter of last year, the same as the previous year. So these are in addition to those who are unemployed. There are part-time employees who want more work. About 15 pst. of them want it. A very small thought experiment: If we add unused hours of work among the unemployed and unused hours among underemployed, i.e. among people who want to work but who are not allowed to work, we see that in the fourth quarter of 2006, these two groups – that is, those who are underemployed and those who are not employed – could have offered society so many hours of work that it would have been 84 000 full-time jobs. If we count on figures that we find in the message, we see that there are large numbers: in the message we find that for every person who comes from social benefits to work, society has $64 000 in net profits after extra investment in reinsurance measures, etc. is subtracted. Once we saw 84 000 full-time jobs, we're up to almost SEK 5.3 billion in net purity for society. Some will probably claim that it is cynical to calculate in this way, that there is individual well-being that needs to be emphasised, not macro-numbers and social benefits. I believe that there are two sides to the same issue. It shows that everyone is valuable, whether they can contribute much or with little. One more important thing: if we put a little more emphasis on such calculations, on what we do to get people to work, and if we focus a little less on what it costs to get people to work, we can also more easily argue to make the investments in our human capital – which are needed – instead of getting the annual discussions on the costs of individual items in the government budget. We're not always good enough to see the cash flows in both directions. It'll pay off in the long run. The notification has an analytical section explaining which groups of the population are over-represented among the supported and excluded. There's a lot of them. There are immigrants, especially immigrant women. It is not because they lack qualifications — many immigrants can do a lot — but because they are immigrants. It's scary. Unemployment is falling, including among immigrants, but differences exist between them and others. The conclusion is, unfortunately, that Norway per year. Today is not an inclusive society. But those are points of light. 86 pst. by the population, immigrants believe that they have the same right to work as the Nordics. We have to take advantage of that space of action. This is the case with the disabled, perhaps especially with the young people with disabilities, who want to, but who don't let go. A little under 15 pst. of the population aged 16–66 years reporting disability itself. So it's a little bit less than half a million people. Less than half of them are in gainful employment, compared with 74,5 pst. of the population as a whole. The underemployment of the working groups is also greater than that of the population as a whole. According to Professor Bjørn Hvinnen of NOVA, there is hardly any country that spends as much money in the field of disability as we do. But we're applying proportionately more to social benefits and to money transfer and less to services than, for example, to services. Our neighbouring countries. At the same time, we also use more than others, measured in crowns, on the integration of people with disabilities into working life. 81 pst. labour market measures in Norway relate to the integration of disabled people. It's far more than in our neighboring country. In spite of this, however, the labour market regime is considerably weaker in Norway than in neighbouring countries. So we spend a lot of money, but we get less than what the rest of us do. That's something we have to deal with. This is not just about granting a lot of new money. It's about using the money we have in a smarter way than we've done in the past. We also see that the state’s own action plan for the recruitment of people with disabilities does not work either. It didn't work under the previous government. It does not work for the time being under this government, but with the ‘trainee’ programmes already under way and all the other measures mentioned in the notification, it is hoped that this situation will improve. The Communication mentions several groups: disabled persons, seniors, early retirement, support, exclusion from physical or mental distress and youth leaving high school. It starts to become a lot of groups. The time is therefore overdue to act. That's what's going on today: trading. The notification has been received positively in the consultation round. It's a good promise. Last month, the weekly management paper gave an interview with a professor from the University of Economics who had a very simple recipe. He said that one in four who could have worked, don't do it. This is because the Norwegian social systems are too good. He recommended cutting in the social welfare schemes as a tool. He even thought that we, as politicians, were aware of the problem, but that we would not consider such an unpopular matter. I am pleased to answer back that this is not a current policy. Instead, there is an offensive policy which takes four main steps: a simplified social welfare system, a package of measures that is opened up to all users of the NAV Office, adapted to the individual’s needs for a tailor-made individual plan – and no longer so as to determine the type of benefit that determines the duration of the measure’s wage subsidy for persons who would otherwise have been referred to a disability pension and who are now given the opportunity to become attractive labour qualification programmes and benefits for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance; So far, we have spent a lot of money without getting results that are proportionate. I have a suspicion why sometimes it can be that the way from decision-to-execution is too long – so long that we lose the overview. That's why I'm pleased that there's such a broad majority in the committee that stands almost united behind the position that's now promoted. That means that, as politicians, we also shift focus. We switch the focus from trying to take rhetorical points apart, to focusing out of the windows and out on our users together. Then it also gets strong, and then hopefully it becomes so that we don't later drive and hunt for little things that don't work, because they will come, but we've looked at the long lines and what really matters. In fact, our users have also deserved it, that we, as politicians, are able to put away a little bit of rhetoric and act purposefully. I am very pleased with the work in the committee, which I think has been exemplary in focusing on what is the real task. We've been traveling a lot, cross and cross, and we've seen a lot of good work around in Norway. We have seen that it is useful, and we have come home with a common feeling that we must take care of this – all the good work done outside with less central governance – and have more confidence in those who are going to work directly with the users. At least one of the biggest impressions I got when we were in New Zealand and were told what degrees of freedom you had at the local NAV office there, where the case handler told me about the lady who came in and could get a job over the weekend in the office, and who stayed so long because she didn't have enough clothes. Then the case handler closed the PC and went out and bought the theme, so the lady could start work. That theme paid the state, because it was cheaper. I have said that the work of the committee has been marked by a great deal of consensus. There are some suggestions from the minority in the vote, and I expect the minority itself to take up those suggestions and present them. I will not go into the content of those proposals now, but rather have the opportunity to come back to them again later. Some of the proposals I believe actually contribute to opening doors. They are asked for something that is already commented on in the message, and that the Government is working on. Other proposals may be more practical. We disagree on some proposals, and I might particularly draw attention to proposal No. 3, to liquidate the waiting, waiting and waiting arrangements. We also do not agree with proposal No. 11 from the Progress Party, that the municipalities should no longer share responsibility for VTA, permanent work arranged. On the contrary, we believe that it is a strength for VTA that the municipalities are co-responsible for the offer, just as they would for the new qualification aid for long-term social welfare beneficiaries. With regard to the hearing opinions, we have had hearing bodies, all the social partners and various types of stakeholder organisations. Everyone came across a common message: quality and long-term, and some good suggestions that we're going to take with us, about focusing on mastering and opportunities, not on disease, on work performance assessment, mutual commitment between user and department. It shall ensure the follow-up to this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e162	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e165	The intentions of the qualification programme are good, and the Progress Party fully supports the line of work. It is important to enable those who are unable to do so today, to take up work and support themselves tomorrow. But I don't understand that you're going to get paid extra through a qualifying grant to apply for work as a social welfare beneficiary. Should it not be an autonomous obligation for all those who receive social assistance, that they try, as far as they can, to obtain employment? Should it not also be a public requirement to do so? What about those who are unable to participate in the qualification programme and who fall outside? Without the possibility to participate in the qualification programme, there is also no possibility of additional qualification support. Are they not the great losers in this new system?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e170	At least I am not able to see that those who are finally mentioned by the representative Kenneth Svendsen become the big losers in the system, because they are the big losers already. What we want with the qualification programme and the qualification support is, of course, just to give some of those who are the big losers today an opportunity to qualify for future professional activity. Of course, it's an obligation for everyone to try to get income from their own work, but someone can't. Some do not have the ability to qualify for future work through the social security system, and some do not have those rights at all. These are the ones we want to support through the qualification programme. Those who may not be able to participate in a qualification programme immediately may receive other types of action. Maybe getting drug free is such a first step, before you can get on a qualification program, but if someone doesn't join the program right away, it's not said that all hope is out. Then we have to look at what other measures we can take, in order for people to be able to take advantage of the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e175	First of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report. I actually agreed with almost everything and disagree with almost nothing. All due respect for it. What I shall now take up, is no attempt to turn open doors or peek into immaterialities. In one area, however, I must ask for clarification. In the Committee, which was also the rapporteur, we traveled a lot around the country and visited many interesting businesses, NAV offices, management companies and action organisers of different nature. What these visits have shown us is that there is a lot of qualitatively good refurbishment work done around in different refurbishment companies of different types. On page 35 of the vote, the majority said: «that this does not involve an increase in the use of tenders but rather a better organisation of tenders». It gives the impression of a skepticism for the purchase of services in relation to management companies and action organisers. Is it possible for the rapporteur to clarify whether he is actually in favour of a tender, against a tender, or whether he should simply continue to do what is in practice today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e187	I can try a little bit of clarification, because on the journeys around, we've seen that it's a whole flora of providers of e.g. reconnaissance services. One of the first things that at least met me when I came here as a fresh wholesaler, were all those who, for example, were. had offered re-routing services for a two-year period, which were then not renewed in the next round of tenders, and which came here and would like to have an entry on the State budget. What we saw very quickly was a lack of continuity in the way some of the tendering processes were rigged up. What we want is to get tender procedures that allow us to take care of the quality that, among other things, the return companies offer, ensure long-term and continuity, and perhaps even secure development agreements with the companies, to continue to develop the offer in line with the needs of the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e192	A more estimation-based approach in labour and welfare management will make it easier to provide specific follow-up and help to get into work. At the same time, it is clear that the use of judgement is challenging in a broad security perspective. The follow-up given to each individual will depend to a large extent on the chemistry of the case handler. In addition, access to the exercise of discretion could result in different cultures in the NAV offices. The welfare message and the government parties' comments in the setting are little concrete as to where you think these dilemmas should be addressed. The Christian People's Party and the rest of the opposition parties ask the Government to consider extending today's complaint regime in matters dealt with by the Social Services Act. Can the representative Lise Christoffersen explain what measures she would specifically recommend in order to ensure good and legal certainty for the users of NAV as the degree of judgement increases significantly?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e199	I think that the most important thing we can do is to get good results reporting systems, so that we see that the means that we give here actually give results to the users. For example, it will. it is also possible to compare the results at the different NAV offices. It's a method that's used in many contexts. So, the question of complaint procedures. The government said in the previous round when we dealt with the NAV reform, that it will come back to that question when one has dealt with the Bernt Committee's position, so that one sees the whole health and social sector in the context, for there may be changes, and then there may be a need to change the appeal procedures that have just changed. So one wants to see that in context. Through our comments, we have given a little hint that the qualification programme and the qualification aid may be more similar to the temporary benefit in the population's population than it is to traditional social assistance. Then it's a little hint.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e206	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e210	St.meld. No 9 on work, well-being and inclusion have been exciting and challenging to work with. The Committee has been abroad for recording, ideas and learning on this topic. It has been exciting to see that several countries face the same challenges as Norway, as well as the way they have chosen to organise themselves. Different countries have opted for different solutions. Hearings have also been very useful. Many good and important recordings have been made, and the Progress Party has chosen to follow several of the recommendations we have received. Initially, I would like to say that the establishment of the NAV offices is an important factor in the welfare message. This supports the Progress Party, as this is a step in the direction we have wanted to go for years. The progress party already had in the Inner East. S. No 162 for 2003-2004 comments where we presented our welfare option, where we wanted ‘to bring together the administration of all welfare schemes in a state agency with local welfare offices throughout the country’, and also to point out that ‘the expenditure of the many different aid schemes can now be charged to both the State, county and municipality, with the result that there will be a struggle between these different management teams to transfer costs and responsibility to a different level’. The issue is equally topical now, more than three years later. If the NAV offices are to succeed as much as I perceive that all parties want, it is necessary that the NAV offices actually have all the tools that are necessary. St.meld. No 9 does not allow for such flexibility. Users still have to deal with a number of other agencies in order to obtain all the tools and measures they need. However, the Progress Party believes that the biggest obstacle to success lies in the distinction between state and municipal funding of the NAV offices. It helps very little that the Stortinget adopts good intentions when, ultimately, it will be the municipal social budgets and priorities that will underpin the individual municipalities. Several hearing bodies, like us, have pointed this out as a significant negative factor, which will also reduce the possibility of non-discrimination. In any case, staff outside the NAV offices will have an important role to play in providing mutual respect and trust between the employee and the user. If the chemistry does not match, the user must be given the opportunity to change the case handler. Submission of trust is best done if employees themselves have good, safe and predictable working conditions. The hope was that St.meld. No 9 would provide the necessary instruments in this context. The Progress Party mainly supports the main lines of the Communication, including the new combined temporary social security for rehabilitation, resettlement and temporary non-employment benefits. However, we do not support the fact that its design is not properly addressed. The hourly curtailment is not determined in any way. It is very important that any benefit has as its basic principle that it should be paid to work. In that case, the benefit must be assessed against additional benefits, curtailment and tax. If you are a member of the local council in your own municipality, you will quickly discover that a meeting lasting five hours is paid at NOK 350 per person. meeting, will give a huge financial loss. This would deprive many of the possibility to maintain parts of everyday life at the same time as rehabilitating or rehabilitating. The duration of the new social benefits is also very important. A concrete duration of en route stop points is correct. Predictability is perceived as important to most people. At the same time, we know that serious illness often takes a long time before you are fully restored. Special caregivers with cancer or severe mental illness must be allowed to use the necessary time. In the long run, this will be right both for individuals and for society. These are some examples of why the Progress Party believes it is so important that the issue is properly addressed before a decision is taken. The Progress Party also believes, like the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, that this group should be allowed to earn birth rights. As it is today, it is actually only those who have chosen not to be in work, and those who have been seriously ill and long sick, who do not have the right to maternity benefits. Furthermore, the communication indicates that very many do not have rights in relation to popular protection, and proposes a new, extended social support with a related qualification programme. We're wondering if on the one hand you want to simplify the system by adding up three benefits, and then on the other hand you want to create a new one. The Progress Party does not support the introduction of the new qualification aid but supports the qualification programme itself. If we are to have some hope of bringing more long-term recipients of social assistance to paid work, it is essential that help, assistance, schooling and follow-up are also given to them. But for the Progress Party, it is absolutely essential that this be given to everyone. We strongly distance ourselves from the Government's proposal to sort people who depend on social assistance. Government alerts in St.meld. No 9 that they want to reward economically those who are healthy to follow a scheme, while those who are sickest or unable to follow a programme will continue to live to the minimum and will not benefit from the new changes. This is a human vision from which we take a strong distance. All shall be provided with assistance and follow-up, and each person shall be obliged to do so in order to avail himself of the assistance he or she is offered in accordance with an individual plan drawn up in cooperation between the NAV Office and the individual. The motivation for the individual lies in the possibility of a better life and the certainty that everyone has a duty to support himself, unless sickness and injury prevent this. Otherwise, disability is the right thing to do. It is also important that prisoners without housing and/or work are offered assistance and follow-up. The party to the progress has been made aware that there is a significant problem that the date specified for the finished settlement is not in accordance with the actual date of the finished settlement. The NAV offices must be satisfied about the actual date of the settlement and, in good time before that date, visit the prisoner for the preparation of an individual plan. It goes without saying that an unemployed person cannot wait for days or weeks before an appointment with the NAV office. The schedule must be clear and the schedule must start from day one. The motivation for a changed life and a better life is often greater then, and this motivation must benefit the NAV offices. In the context of the qualification programme and the new temporary social security scheme, the Government has launched welfare contracts. I've tried to look at the content of welfare contracts, rights and opportunities with a very open mind, but I'm simply not able to see that this is anything other than what we already have today, an individual plan. For me, a contract is a binding agreement, voluntarily concluded between two equivalent parties, where a breach of the contract will have consequences. The NAV office can hardly be equated with a seriously ill person who is required to follow an order to get the money paid to survive, while the notification does not say what consequences it will have if the NAV office does not follow up its part of the contract. The Progress Party considers that an individual plan has bindings, content, objectives and implementations. We perceive it as an obligating agreement that is well known by both users and providers. We see welfare contracts as nothing but a tumultuous name for an existing offer, namely individual level, and do not support their implementation. I also want to link some words to quotaing. As most people know, we have always been opponents of quotaing, which has emerged most clearly in the debate on women's quotaing in politics. As a point of fact, I can tell you that the number of women in the municipal government group of the Progress Party in my municipality is 60 p.m., and that without any quota. In other municipalities it's lower, but all of our women are elected because they're capable, and because they want to run politics. And none of them wonder if they're good enough, or if they're just quotad in. The problem of quotaing is in the negative, as many people see it. It is simply discrimination, and many people feel that this is very unpleasant. The Progress Party has as its basic position that all people should have the same duties, opportunities and rights, regardless of sex, age, function, religion and sexual orientation. No one is to be discriminated against and no one is to be given special advantage. We are therefore opposed to quotaing and some specific arrangements to which the notification refers. I record that the government parties also refer to the same positions on the principle of equality, while in the next sentence they say that it is not equal, so that quotas and special arrangements are necessary. However, the Progress Party sees that there is in particular one group that has some major challenges than others in planning its life. This applies to children and young people born or suffering from a serious illness, chronic illness or disability. Like other young people, these young people want a long, good life in the labour market, with a job they have chosen. These don't want to be met with the obvious fact that they're going to start their adult life as a disability, as many people have expressed that they're experiencing. It is absolutely essential that during their education they receive help, support and not least financial compensation for the extra disadvantages they have through their study. It will often take longer for a person with chronic illness or disability to complete the study, as well as for aids of different kinds to be required. Following further input from the hearings, the Party has put forward a proposal to remedy this injustice. This is not about quotaing, discrimination or special treatment. This is simply about giving these young people the same opportunities that all other young people are given, on the same lines as possible. The welfare message I hope will be able to give more people an opportunity to succeed. I sincerely hope that the intention of an overall set of instruments – one door, one case handler and larger powers for the staff of the NAV offices – will give many more opportunities for a better life. I hope and ask that the Council of State will follow this process very closely, and that he will make proposals for corrections as soon as possible, if we are informed of the adverse effects of some of the changes we are making. Otherwise, there is a lot in the message about the recruitment companies, about permanent job placements, about work with assistance and about bonus pay, but I will be very careful to say that these themes are also very important and refer to our remarks on this. I am referring here to the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e270	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e275	Municipal self-government has been central to Norwegian administration and tradition through generations. I am then somewhat surprised that the Progress Party in the area by region wants to discharge the responsibilities and tasks of the municipalities. We see it in this case, linked to the fact that the Progress Party wants to state the social offices. We know the saying that it knows best where the shoe prints it. It is in each municipality that good social work can be done in conjunction with the individual user and client. We also know that there are significant differences, among others. in living costs and housing costs in different parts of the country. My question to the representative is: Why in the world does the Progress Party want to hold back the government of social offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e282	The Progress Party believes, of course, that it is the municipalities that are supposed to shape and exercise the services offered by the municipalities today. What we're concerned about is funding. We are still getting messages in our party – and I expect that the Right gets – that in economically difficult times, social assistance payments have been a significant problem for municipalities. They've had to cut in other areas. There are unforeseeable budgets, and they are very marked by the priorities of local politicians in individual municipalities. In order to get a better service and to avoid NAV offices becoming part of a throwing ball system between a government budget and a municipal budget, we want it to be publicly funded, but of course be exercised in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e287	If you look at the unemployment statistics, you can see that there are two groups that are specifically represented. There are people with immigrant backgrounds and people with disabilities. Two policy surveys were carried out in 2006, which show that both groups are being severely discriminated against, attitude discrimination, both by employers and by workmates. Despite this, it seems that the Progress Party does not recognise that there is real discrimination in employment and that action is needed. How else can they explain that highly educated engineers with a migrant background in Norway do not get a job and that many disabled people with good qualifications do not get a job? The question then is: is it not worth using tools that make you, for example? sets a target for a certain number of employees, allowances, etc. in order to break this discrimination, so that it can be seen that there are actually skilled workers and good colleagues who need employment in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e294	I am, like many of the immigrants themselves and the disabled themselves, against quotaing. I have been sitting and participating in a debate on quotas for immigrants, where a large number of immigrants themselves were opposed. They saw that they would lose on a scheme where they would in any context be asked if they had got the job because they had been transferred, or because they were capable. If there's a problem with attitudes outside the companies, that's where we have to put the work. It is regrettable that the state and the municipality are the worst recruiters for both immigrants and disabled people. We should perhaps first take a roof in our own municipalities and in the state. I hope that the attitudes you refer to somewhere are not representative. At the place of work Coca-Cola Drinker AS in my municipality they have 70–80 different nationalities, I think, and have very good experience with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e303	I want to follow up on the last theme because it is a little surprising that the Progress Party is not more concerned with integrating immigrants into the labour market. In a common note, all except the Progress Party, we say that we support the Government that this reform should have as its specific objective the inclusion of non-Western immigrants in the labour market, with special emphasis on women and the situation of new generations. The ratio is that there must be a loss for society that female immigrants are so little integrated into working life. It must be a loss both economically and socially that we do not get them into the labour market. The Progress Party does not see the benefits of using social instruments to ensure the widest possible participation in the labour market for as many groups as possible – both for the benefit of society and of course for the benefit of individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e310	The note Dagfinn Sundsbø refers to here, is a note that particularly applies to immigrants and immigrant women. We don't want to go into this particular comment, because we think there are a lot of groups that are struggling to get into the labour market. We have said in our remarks that we want to include everyone, and then we're talking about seniors, young people, disabled people, or others who are struggling because of a past like drug addicts, or who have long prison stays behind them. We have been concerned that this message should embrace everyone, give opportunities to everyone, without one special group having special advantages over others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e315	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e318	We are now dealing with a matter that will have a considerable and important impact on the development of the welfare society in Norway in the years to come. Not only the positions taken today through the examination of this matter, but not least the way this is implemented in the administration, in the bureaucracy, from top to bottom, will have a major and decisive impact on the future of the Norwegian welfare society. I want to say that, because it tells me a little about the seriousness of the matter, how important it is, and about the starting point we have had for dealing with this matter. I want to raise my eyes a little and initially in my post trying to point out which main posts are important to the Right, what has been our starting point in our handling of this matter. I would like to point out five points that are absolutely essential for us to be able to create a good society. The first is a knowledge school where no student is hanging after. It's amazingly important, and it also has to do with this case. The second is a working life where everyone is given a new chance to contribute, and where those who fall outside are given a new chance. The third is an innovative business that triggers opportunities across the country. The fourth is a public welfare offer that provides help when you need it. And last but not least, it's a diverse society where people meet with respect, openness and tolerance. All of these five pillars -- that's what we can call them -- are important for what I want to call the Right Society. Initially, I also want to decorate a bit of the Council of State. I've said it before and I'd like to repeat it: most of the main actions taken in the big message might as well have been proposed by a social minister from the Right. From the time Bjarne Håkon Hanssen took up the State Council Office in the autumn of 2005, there have been many good signals, offensive thoughts and good rhetoric related to the challenges facing the Norwegian welfare community. The problem does not relate to what he suggests, but more what he does not propose, and also what he, I think, has not got his reddish and greener government colleagues on, and not least that it has become too much word and loud thinking and too little action. Now, social clients are supposed to be getting up in the morning. That's very good. What is not so good is that many of the measures that they should get up to are cut down on or cut off. Long-term social clients should also be lifted out of a nitrist and unworthy existence, have a doubling of the monthly social benefits and have opportunities for a new start — also very well. But once again, we see that the distance between words and reality becomes too great. Converted and allocated over an entire year, the entry proposed and adopted by the Government in 2007 is limited to 420 persons or about one person per year. municipality. The very big reform is not going to happen! Well-being contracts are not really a whole new arrangement. It is a new word, a new term, with partly the same content as in a long-term management opportunity, which many have actually used: an individual plan is created for the individual user, where requirements are made and a tailor-made offer is made. Last week I visited a rehab company in Tromsø called Tromsprodukt AS. They showed me examples of individual plans, call it welfare contracts, they had been working with individual users – very exciting, very concrete – where, from a two-year perspective, what was expected of the client or user, and what the management company could offer the client in terms of building up skills, self-confidence, health and diet. There were many single elements that had to be put in place so that someone who has come out crooked should get back to the right place. Very interesting and with obligations for both parties! They didn't call it a welfare contract, but the name really doesn't embarrass anyone. I am making this point because I wanted to point out that there is a lot of good social and professional work done, both in the direction of social offices, now NAV, and in the direction of various action organisers and recruitment companies. I'm concerned that you're playing with these good cancers. I am absolutely convinced that NAV and this reorganisation have no chance of success if you take the ideological position that you should not take advantage of the skills and services that they can offer. I actually think everyone has everything to gain from realizing that there is a lot of good competence out there that you have to use. So for questions related to, among other things. disability and development there. That's where we're really worried. We know that this year it is estimated that there will be about 32,000 new untrained workers, and we know that on 1 May an investigation will be carried out by the Committee on Occupational Pensions. The problem with it is that we really should have had it a long time ago. Things take time, the three t's. Things take too much time. This is what we see in the implementation of the NAV reform. The rapporteur mentioned our study trip to New Zealand, where they carried out a similar reform and spent months where we spend years. And we now see it in the context of the concreteisation and follow-up of the Unearthed Pensions Committee’s position – the NOU that comes. Based on what we have been informed, we can expect concrete proposals by spring 2009 at the earliest, and then perhaps with implementation from 2010. In the meantime, the result is tens of thousands of new unsatisfied people. This concerns us for many reasons, not only the socio-economic ones, which the case-rapporteur rightly pointed out, but also the human aspects linked to the fact that so many people experience being excluded from the labour market. The greatest concern, perhaps, is that the number of young people who are ill-satisfied is actually increasing quite sharply. It's serious, very alarming! I can't imagine any greater failure and failure for a welfare society like the Norwegians than to say to a young person, for example. Twenty-five years that the only society has to contribute is dissatisfaction. Good luck to you! It's a stigmatisation and a treatment that we can't be familiar with. At least I'm absolutely convinced that disapproving young people is the very last instrument you have to resort to, only after all the other things have been tried. We also see that many municipalities have good examples of having had a significant share of young social assistance recipients coming to the social office and expecting a social benefit, where you have had so-called Snu in door projects and said that, yes, here you will get help and help, but we will first of all offer you a job. And with the lack of labour we now have, it's also a good indicator. If we don't succeed in including these groups in the world of work now, the question is, will we ever be able to succeed with it? Now there's the possibility. Otherwise, I want – not to turn open doors on – just to point to a relationship that has frustrated me a little in dealing with the matter. We experience, as we read the big message, that it is both pleasant and eye-catching that the government in the news of big business is breaking with its previously stated resistance to slippery welfare policy. Both the Workers' Party and the SV recognise individual adaptations and flexible arrangements through the Storing Communication, while at the same time making it possible to impose requirements on beneficiaries of benefits. But what frustrates me is that, through the committee's treatment, I have felt that it has kind of plagued parts of the red-green majority a little bit that one feels that we from the Right express that we perceive this as a good follow-up to things we've actually meant for a long time, and that in some way they won't fully acknowledge this support. The rapporteur's statement today was a good example of perhaps misunderstanding, but I think parts of the setting, as formulated in words, bear the mark of trying to construct a discord that is actually not present in substance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e341	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e345	These are the figures given by the representative Martin Engeset in connection with the new qualification programme and the qualification aid, and his expressed disappointment at how puzzled it was. Now, during Stortinget's skiing day in Holmenkollen yesterday, I had the pleasure of going and solving equations in the loop with the representative Martin Engeset, so I thought we could try to take that exercise one more time. My question is: would Martin Engeset have been more satisfied if it was already the first year of qualification program a place between 1000 and 1700 people who started that program, i.e. a place between 53 and 87 per. municipality? What Martin Engeset is guilty of is that he forgets that the start of the qualification programme will not be until after we have passed the law here in Stortinget. It'll be either three months or five months in 2007, and it's set at 53 million. kr in the State budget. So when Martin Engeset has been thought about, is it better – when he sees that he has calculated a little wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e352	No, I am fully aware that this scheme is being phased in in 2007 in the municipalities where NAV offices have been established. But this was sold in its time as a violent reform, a great, great social policy reform, which was supposed to be something quite different from what you'd ever thought of. I have shown in my post that it is actually a significant exaggeration, while at the same time I think that when we saw how this was presented and sold in, and what the result was, it became a little puzzled and too little ambition. We can only hope that in 2008, when implementing the scheme in 150 new municipalities, several hundred million kroner will be added to these contracts. That must be it. And then we'll see if this eventually becomes a success. We hope so, because we support the idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e357	The welfare message focuses on working pay rather than going to social security or social security. This is a good principle, of course, supported by the Progress Party. Additional benefits, curtailment rules and taxes are individually important elements for achieving such a objective. I note that the Right supports the rules that will apply until the new combined social security benefits, while at the same time proposing a review of the welfare scheme, the pension scheme and the tax system, recommending that it should always pay to work rather than to benefit or social security. How can the Right support the level of the new performance before a review of all sides has been carried out? In short, what does the Right actually mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e362	That's how we have to have a system until a new one is in place. The proposal that the Right has promoted together with the Progress Party on the principle that work should always be more profitable than going to social security and social welfare is a very important principle, which must have consequences both for fiscal policy, for pension policy and not least for welfare policy. This is because if we are to be able to secure the welfare society in the future, it is absolutely vital that people are at work. It's the socio-economic part of it. But at the same time, it is crucial for the individual to experience inclusion, community and self-development, that one has the ability to feed and be self-sufficient by being able to earn the wages of one's own work. Work gives joy, participation and inclusion. And a society that is gradually experiencing an increasing number of people who live involuntarily outside the organized working life and become dependent on social welfare schemes is a society that will break down over time if you don't get control of development. That's why this is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e367	It is quite interesting to be a spectator of Right ham change in welfare and labour policy. Those of us who have had the pleasure of working on this topic for many years, including under government councils from the Right, cannot avoid noticing the great change that has occurred since Victor Norman was Minister of Labour. First of all, Victor Norman did when he was there, was gettin' started on the measures, so they were greatly reduced despite the fact that unemployment was high. He ran into parts of the legislation, preventing the tailoring seam that the Right raised, and he had at all a policy that was in conflict with the news of big business that this government has presented. I want to ask Right, which in its budgets is also now well-balanced with the tax receipts that this government has collected and released to well-being, whether it is such that the Right has seen that their policy was actually wrong, and that it would give less well-being, and therefore would also ensure that more people became poor, more were excluded, and more would not be able to get into the working life, which is a very important purpose?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e379	The representative Karin Andersen now uses a well-known trick in political debate, first drawing a very caricatured picture of the politics of a political opponent, and then attacking that image. It's going to be completely wrong, of course. So the characterization of what we've stood for, I don't take in any way. Of course, it could be tempting to return the ball to Karin Andersen and ask what she is about now in relation to what she herself has stood for in the past. I will leave it, but at least what we see is that the policy we pursued in the government for four years has laid the groundwork for economic growth and prosperity that hardly any other country in Western Europe has seen fit to do. Of course, international economic activity has also played a role. However, no one can at least deny that the responsible growth-promoting policy we stood for has provided increased tax revenues for the public, opportunities to further expand the welfare community, while at the same time reducing tax rates. So we've agreed a good and sensible tax policy with a good welfare policy, and I'm proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e386	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e389	This big message is about something as important as ‘to give different people equal opportunities’. It's a very important slogan for SV. It is based on a society that is built around it that all people should have it safely even if they are ill, without work or disability. I want to say a little bit about it first, because it sounds like someone from the right-hand side thinks it's a failure statement for a society that people who are sick, unemployed or disabled actually have a performance they can live on. It's not a problem. It's a nobility's mark for a society. Without these benefits and without them being good, this society had had major poverty problems, and we had been far less productive than what we are today. But the problem is that someone who wants, and can, doesn't get the opportunity to participate in the work. It's about this message, and it's a very important mission. The working line is an important part of poverty policy, but not the only one. Distribution policies in general, education policy, health policy, rehabilitation and society in general are of great importance, including the level of performance of those who will live on benefits and who cannot be in the labour market. Therefore, the instruments of NAV must correspond to the possibilities of working life. It's better suited for now. But it is also important that the labour market adapts to the opportunities of the different people. «Sustainable welfare schemes depend on a decent working life,» wrote Professor Steinar Westin in a chronicle in Dagbladet on 5 September last year. It's very important. A good labour market offers opportunities for those with skills and who are being asked for, but it also increases the momentum for those who do not now get a job despite the good labour market. It is important to have in mind when rigging to a government to address this problem for people. Many of those who do not get a job today need to build up mastering, sea urchins – they need qualification, and they need longer runs. Labour market demand qualified labour today. SV is very pleased that we are now receiving one of the three benefits in terms of rehabilitation, rehabilitation and temporary disability, and that those who receive this benefit will have full access to the menu of actions. It's very important. It is also very important to look at the underlying legislation, so that it adapts to it, and that real personalisation can be achieved. The new qualification aid with the corresponding qualification programme is also very important. Being able to get into such a firm arrangement, and get a safe and secure economy during that course, I think are some of the most important steps that can be taken. I want to refer to one of the trials, SAVIS, which the Committee has been and looked at, and which I know the Council of State is also aware of. It's just been based on this that you have to have a security for the economy, and then you have to be allowed to stay on for so long that you actually manage to get qualified and get the mastery experience of your life. It is incredibly important also when presenting yourself to an employer. The evaluation of the previous action attempt shows that many of those who have participated have major health problems with which they have not been helped. So it's going to be one of the most important things we can do. There are many of the 320,000 unemployed who can get a comeback — especially those who burn for it, those with a disability who have been pushed into social security before they have been tried. Employee benefits may be one option, but it is important for me to say that you have to try rehabilitation and qualification first. IA and non-discriminating employers' policies are also very important. I'll get back to that a little bit. However, it is important that groups, such as those involved, should also be included. young people dropping out of school, disabled people, people with disabilities, long-term unemployed and beneficiaries of social assistance. I think I'll again refer to some of the trials that have been carried out, which show that it has really benefited. Sick people who have been on social assistance for many years have been able to qualify well for work if they have only had good enough opportunities. But there are many who have told us that the road has gone further as they go. That's why one of the most important things now is to get a quick response, that the NAV office grabs people and puts them on track before they've lost their sense of control, because it's one of the most serious things that can happen. Modern reintroduction must therefore focus on individual approaches through qualification and mastering, and by sewing packages around people. It's about chaining both action and economics, it's got to be diversity and quality, and it's got to have a duration that makes people not only get a job but also manage to keep it. Then there are many things that have to be done. One area that I've been very concerned about is that you have to deal with people's learning difficulties. For example, people who have difficulty reading and writing have to get qualified help with that. Then there are also opportunities to get a job. There must be a wide range in the testing and qualification arenas we have, ranging from ordinary businesses, short courses, recruitment agencies, education, maritime aid groups, with which many of us are in contact, and which get something that the management sometimes fails to do, establishing training for former drug users, which I have been and seen in conjunction with Innovation Norway and NAV – great opportunities for many, if only you get it together. It is incredibly important that through the individual plans to be made, we also get committed cooperation in the areas of health and rehabilitation, intoxication and follow-up in relation to criminal care – that is, all these pieces that need to be linked, so that, as my colleague Lise Christoffersen often says, this staf stick does not fall on the floor many times during the course. We have to end that. The individual plan must be given a much greater weight. Sustainable work is also important, so that you can combine work and social security in better ways than you can today. It will also be an important theme when dealing with the future of disability. But it is important for me to say that the State should and must have co-responsibility to finance permanent work and to make sure that such jobs are available. Legal certainty, non-discrimination and more discretion have been a topic that has been raised, and it is a dilemma. Therefore, the competence of NAV must be so good that this can be handled. It's important that you have a culture and a human vision that honors and builds people, and not blame them for more shame and guilt when they don't master their lives. The products must be in place, and there we are taking some important steps today. But it is also essential that there are enough resources in the system. It is also incredibly important to review the appeal procedure — and the Government has said it should do so — in relation to these benefits, and also to the system as a whole. If legal certainty is to be good, it is incredibly important that the right to appeal is clear. When the perception is significantly increased, it is important to consider the fact that a part of the exercise of discretion in today’s health and social services law is not the subject of a complaint — and that of those who have the most difficulty. For SV, it is important to increase legal certainty for that group. It is also essential that real participation and individualisation are put in place throughout the system. As others have said, it is important to stress that there is a need for an employer’s policy on anti-discrimination and non-discrimination, also on the State and the public side. There I have a challenge to the Council of State: I think we need to look through our own house when it turns out that the state, for example. do not recruit disabled people against the objective that we have. In public activities, it is seaworthy to require competent professionals and advisers at many levels who can pursue a good policy for the disabled, just as for immigrants. Therefore, it should be equally clear that experts with expertise on disability issues, such as ethnic minorities, are needed. This type of competence must be actively sought by the State when it is to be recruited to public positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e430	I have to admit that I am a little surprised that SV with Karin Andersen at the head can be in favour of qualifying aid, which intends to give those who are at least ill, an economic boost and an offer of qualification. Several hearing bodies have pointed out that it will provide a sorting society with A and B teams of social clients. This is in agreement with the Progress Party. How can the SV defend such a division and discrimination against those who have the most difficulty? And does SV think that giving these selected income of 2 G will make the big economic difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e436	I deeply disagree that this will create A and B layers. It's today we have A, B, C and D layers. Today, this is not a right and an opportunity for those who live on social assistance. Therefore, SV sees it as an important opportunity to secure people who currently live on social assistance, rights and opportunities for a qualification scheme and a fixed income that makes it possible to gather to qualify. SV looks at this as a step in the right direction. The system the Progress Party clearly advocates, that only social assistance should be maintained – it also sounds as if they believe that sick people should go to social assistance, while, in the SV's view, they should be disadvantaged if they are ill – we believe that we will only reinforce the situation as it is today. What we want to do is give people new opportunities and new rights, so that more people can qualify and get out of the difficult situation they're in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e443	The representative, Karin Andersen, has, at least when she was in opposition, excelled by being very concerned about how important it was to combat poverty to increase social aid rates. Now, with great interest, I registered Mr. Lise Christoffersen's contributions, where she was very categorical about the fact that raising social assistance rates up to the level Karin Andersen had previously dreamed of. How does she feel that this is now categorically rejected in an article – for SV has been asked to raise the rates at SIFO level, which would cost billions of dollars? It has now been rejected by Andersen's government colleague, the Workers' Party. Another question: Does Karin Andersen admit that it is now controlled on the basis of the retention of 16 billion of the 24 billion in tax reliefs that we carried out in our reign? In that case, this is a great political achievement that we can now base it on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e452	I understand that the Soria Moria statement may not be common, daily reading of the representative Engeset! SV is very pleased that Soria Moria says that we should raise the rates of social assistance. We've already taken the first step. It's an important step, because it's a signal that there's a need for an increase for those who live on social assistance. The problem with Right's argument is that they don't see the paradox here, that the consequence of keeping people in poverty is that they don't get out of poverty. The consequence is that self-confidence shrinks, and opportunities to take on a difficult life and qualify are reduced. Therefore, SV is also very pleased that we are now getting the qualification support, which we consider important in order to increase the performance for those who have the least. We are absolutely sure that this is an important step in the fight for more people to put their legs under – and be less dependent on both Anxiety and me to survive their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e459	Today’s welfare systems are largely based on the limitations of individuals. Now it is necessary to focus on the job opportunities that each individual has. Although the welfare message implicitly uses this as a basis for work in NAV, it briefly outlines how such a performance assessment should be carried out. That is what the Christian People's Party believes is unfortunate. We believe that, at an early stage, an assessment must be made at the level of case handlers as to what opportunities each individual has to meet the requirements of the labour market. This assessment should then be the starting point for the choice of measures, and it must also be done before providing financial benefits. A statutory assessment of performance will guarantee that NAV will take early action to prevent permanent exclusion from the labour market. How will the representative Andersen specifically implement the performance assessment in NAV?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e466	The job performance assessment is very important, but I think that we, as politicians, may need to be a little careful about how this should be done. Some of these also have professional and medical aspects – very many different professional aspects – to them. However, what I fully agree with the representative Woie Duesund in is that this needs to be put into place a system that works optimally for the individual and that works from day one. That's what you have to deal with first. I also want to draw attention to some of the attempts that have been made with perhaps some of the most vulnerable groups, who have been out of work for a long time, but who have managed to master this by having qualified people who help you make authoritative choices in your own life. It's incredibly important that now it's not the system that tells you what you're fit for, but that a sail is able to see its strength and its possibilities – and get the opportunity to build up around it. Just how this is going to be done, I think that we who are politicians should be a little careful to give the details. But it has to be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e475	This means that the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e478	Through the NAV reform and the treatment of St.meld. No 9 laid the foundation for comprehensive welfare policy changes. Labour and welfare management is in the midst of major organisational upheavals and, in parallel, working methods and instruments must be changed. We have now laid the foundation for user-oriented, labour-oriented and efficient management. The reform is big and complicated, and the implementation phase we know will be demanding, not least for all employees of the Working and Welfare Act. However, I am proud and pleased that a broad political majority is united on the changes that have a better offer to the individual as its main objective. The goal is to increase the opportunities for everyone to participate. It is a major challenge for Norway that a total of around 700,000 people — one in four of them in working age — receive benefits for living from the public at all times. In the last ten years, the number of out-of-work people has increased by 100000. It's a formidable increase, and there's every reason to ask why it's been like this. We have to recognize that our society is characterized by an increased degree of individualism. I think, unfortunately, most of us to a lesser extent than previous generations are willing to accept social responsibility. This results, inter alia, in: in that the labour market is displacing workers who do not provide the maximum. Another factor that can explain that so many people in pre-employment do not work is that it has become more and more acceptable for some groups to be out of work. In addition, many of the aid schemes are triggered by specific medical diagnosis. This does not draw attention to what you can master. Now attention has to be shifted from individual limitations to individual possibilities. Efforts shall be directed towards reducing social security and employment. We do that because we know what participation in working life means to self-esteem, to social contact, and not least it has a big impact on the economy. Work opportunities are the most effective way out of poverty. It is also important to allow individuals to use their resources and participate in society. The first meeting of the NAV offices with citizens should be based on the possibilities for individuals to meet the requirements of the labour market. This assessment should form the basis for the choice of measures and must therefore take place at a very early stage. Such an assessment should be required before any decision is taken to pay an economic benefit as compensation of labour income. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that a statutory assessment of working capacity will guarantee that NAV will take early action to prevent permanent exclusion from the labour market. The welfare message adds to the increased use of discretionary practice in the labour and welfare management. In my opinion, it is appropriate to provide a more flexible framework for the selection of offers and actions. This will make work more individualised and results-oriented. At the same time, such a change of approach is challenging in terms of legal certainty and non-discrimination. The individual user could face a difficult situation if, for example: the interaction with the case handler is poor. It is therefore essential that due consideration be given to the rights of individuals through good procedural procedures and easily accessible complaint procedures. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that much speaks to extend today's complaint regime in matters dealt with by the Social Services Act. I would like to ask the State Council to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with an assessment of the need for amended complaint procedures. The notification provides for an increased use of labour-oriented qualification measures in NAV. This is positive. However, such an effort should not be made without good practices for the quality assurance of individual actions. It is necessary to develop good recording tools to measure the results of individual courses and to provide users with space in suitable available action spaces. While good analytical tools need to be developed to offer the most relevant courses to NAV users, it is also necessary for authorities to be able to manage the new Work and Welfare Act properly. The Christian People's Party is particularly committed to those who have been out of work over time and who need more long-term help and training to get into regular work. That's why we have, among other things, priority specific labour market measures in our budgetary options. We support the Government's proposal for a qualification programme and qualification support for long-term recipients of social assistance, because we believe that this will give a new chance to those who have been outside for a long time. At the same time, we are concerned that this new programme can create a poor distinction between social welfare beneficiaries who are estimated to have the potential to get into work and those who are thought not to have it. It is important for me to point out that if a person has repeatedly been denied an application to participate in a qualification programme, there is a clear indication that he/she will not be able to get into work. The consequence should then be that he or she is offered a more sustainable social security benefit — and not again referred to social assistance, which should be a temporary guarantee of income for those without income for a period of time. Achieving the intention behind the qualification programme requires long-term and resource intensive efforts. In the Christian People's Party, we are aware that it is difficult to estimate how many of the programme participants will come into ordinary work. However, it has been crucial for us that participation in qualification programmes will be important for the quality of life of individuals, for self-confidence and for social contacts. Such positive factors must also be taken into account when evaluating the measure. In the social debate, it has been argued that a system of temporary wage subsidies for those in the process of falling out of the labour market is contrary to the objective of maximising normal employment. In isolation, this is an understandable objection. But I think we have to realize that there are some people in our society who are not 100 pst. who will never enter the job without some compensation from the employer. That is why, in the Christian People's Party, we support the proposal for a temporary wage subsidy. However, we recognise that such a scheme could lead to a certain distortion of normal employment, and it is therefore important that the scheme be implemented in such a way as to minimise potential adverse effects and be subject to a thorough evaluation. The welfare message contains a number of concrete measures to facilitate participation by both disabled people and immigrants in the labour market. In the Christian People's Party, we are positive that offensive efforts should be made to qualify immigrant women. However, we are concerned about the negative developments we see in the number of disabled persons employed in the public sector, and we assume that the Minister of Inclusion, in cooperation with the Minister of Renewal, will see to it that these developments are reversed. Over several years, Norway has tried to develop tools to include more disabled people and people with a minority background in working life, but we have not succeeded sufficiently. The use of allowances to achieve set targets is a powerful tool, but we in the Christian People's Party believe that the time has now come to explore how allowances and allowances can be used to achieve real equality of access to work. We are aware that these instruments, if used incorrectly, can contribute to increased discrimination and racism. I ask the Council of State to take this into account in the assessments to be made. Finally, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur on the matter, Mr Christoffersen, for the thorough and structured work he has done on the communication. I am very pleased that it has succeeded in getting a broad political majority behind the vote. It is important for the users of the Employment and Welfare Act and for the further development of the NAV. I refer to the vote and take up the suggestions that have been made there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e516	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e521	I have a question for the representative Woie Duesund. The Christian People's Party expresses support, but at the same time a little scepticism, for the qualification aid that belongs to the qualification programme. I think that scepticism is honest and sincere, and I also think that it is in the interest of the users. But I don't agree with that scepticism, so what I'm asking is whether the representative Woie Duesund can explain this to me. The reason the representative gave from the pulpit here now was that there could be a danger of a distinction between the social welfare recipients who can, and those who can't, get into work. Can the representative Woie Duesund then explain to me what is the difference between that and the work capacity assessment that will take place in relation to the new temporary protection of income in the social security system? In both cases, the same question can be asked — and cannot — and given the same answer — yes or no — depending on the individual’s situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e530	Firstly, I believe that the representative of Christoffersen, me and the Christian People's Party agree that the most important thing now is that we get more jobs and more on passive social benefits. We're essentially supporting what's here. But when a selection is to be made, we see that there is a danger that only those who have the greatest resources will come first and have opportunities. For us, it's important that everyone is given equal opportunities to try, that you have to look at what's going on in quality of life, to be allowed to just participate. It is important for us that those who do not do it go over to a permanent social benefit and get a disability benefit. Then there's something about the size of the performance itself. We're thinking about it being higher than a minimum pensioner gets. We're also thinking about young people getting two thirds of 2G, which is actually more than what you get in education.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e537	It is gratifying to note great agreement between the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party in this matter. However, we do not agree with the Christian People's Party's remark that 40 pst. the consumption of alcohol by Norwegian workers takes place in some relationship with the labour market. It is difficult for the Progress Party to know whether the Christian People's Party has really noticed this, and in what way they have noticed it. On what does the Christian People's Party base this statement? Is not the Christian People's Party concerned about the increase in pill abuse and the increase in the use of drugs detected in the labour market in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e543	I would first like to thank you for the question. It gives me a great opportunity to talk about something that is a very serious problem. That's the way it was said that the numbers, which are derived from research-based knowledge, clearly show that 40 pst. the consumption of alcohol by workers in the labour market. So it's going to cost us $18 billion. 70 pst. of which work-related. I believe that both the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party would like to spend that money for something else. We also agree that efforts should be made to combat drug and pill abuse. I think it's important to look at good examples. What happens in the rest of the world? There it is that it is working to get free zones in the labour market. Here, I think an attitude campaign along with the work force could be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e552	We should have used this debate to the extent of focusing on the broad connection that is at the government's arrangement, rather than focusing on the small things that we might have shared opinions about. I'm also a little surprised at the Christian People's Party's restraint in relation to the qualification program, referring to the fear of an A-layer and a B-layer. I feel that the quality number of this message. 1 is just that we put up the tools so that we see the human being, not the social welfare category. In the case of long-term social clients, the great opportunities many of them have, through a proper follow-up, to return to a social and work life where they can be contributors and not recipients alone. Isn't it far more important than problematizing what might have to be in an A-layer and a B-layer?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e559	I support the representative both in what is here and in the objective that the most important thing is for people to get into work. But we are also concerned that when it becomes a selection, they with the greatest resources will come in front of those who cannot stand on their own feet. We hope that they too will have an opportunity, for example. to detoxification and to train immigrants in Norwegian. We're concerned that the lowest in the ranking path will also have an opportunity to participate. The council has said that they will be allowed to try again, and we are pleased about that. But when they've tried many times, they have to go over to a lasting social benefit, so that they can get a decent life. We're concerned with quality of life and being able to do it alone, because everyone can't do it in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e564	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e567	Two major administrative reforms are now in Stortinget. This is regional reform and welfare reform. Both of them have challenges in establishing a better functioning partnership between state directorates on the one hand and municipalities/companies on the other. It is the population who will reap the greatest gain in the form of seamless services and a more transparent and efficient public administration. The NAV reform has been adopted and implemented. St.meld. No 9 is the follow-up that will provide our new welfare system with the means to achieve the ambitious goals we have set for developing services for the most vulnerable in society. People who are long-standing sick, who do not find their place in the workplace, or who are struggling with major social problems, need assistance. The goal is to move from an overly divided and regulated system to an individual-oriented system, where standard solutions are to be replaced by tailor-made solutions. It will be important to follow developments in the new NAV to see if we achieve these objectives through the changes we are now making. The Committee's attitude is that the Storting is quite united in terms of the objectives and content of the reform. The party of progress is distinguished by continuing its commitment to reducing the role of municipalities in the social field. It is hard to understand that a party that so often focuses on individual orientation is the most important thing to demand standardised and state solutions. The municipalities, with their closeness to the people and knowledge of local differences, which have to be adapted to the problem, have clear advantages over government in this work. There are also some differences between us other parties in the assessments of how we best comply with overall ambitions to strengthen welfare policy. The main objective of the Communication, as many have stressed earlier, is to promote measures to strengthen the inclusion of those who have difficulties in entering the labour market or who are in the process of falling out of work. We need to strengthen the instruments to stimulate the use of individual working capacity by introducing welfare contracts as a continuous system and a new qualification programme combined with increased benefits, in particular towards long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. We are going to introduce a new time-limited income hedge into the public interest that replaces rehabilitation money, restitution money and time-limited unpaid pay. In the Center Party, we believe this is the right approach that provides room for greater individual focus and opportunities to build the welfare systems so that they provide the back heat of society to those who struggle to find their place in working and social life. A qualification programme with the right to qualify is an important handset for those who need extensive assistance before they can get to work. Too many have gone on social assistance as a more or less permanent form of getting money to a minimum of living. Being able to establish agreements with this group to enter into an arrangement for acquiring skills and work training is one of the most important promises of this message to people who have gone out and into the social services. The qualification programme is accompanied by the right to a qualification grant of approx. NOK 125 000 – 2 G. I am pleased that the responsibility for this scheme is added to the municipalities and am therefore satisfied that the government will come back with proposals for the legal basis that sets the scheme in system as soon as this notification has been addressed by us. It is important for the Central Party that the municipalities be compensated for the additional costs that will be incurred. It has been insured by the Government and has already granted 53 million for the current year. which will go to the NAV pilot municipalities, which will be the first to implement the programme. So parts of the opposition are afraid that we're going to create A and B teams among social welfare recipients. Right is fifty-three million. kr is not much to boast of, and the Progress Party says – they deserve to be quoted on it: ‘These members, however, will not support the introduction of a 2G qualifying aid and believe that there is a reasonable requirement for social assistance beneficiaries to make the effort to become the self-driving wheel even within the current framework.’ I'm afraid we have to read this as a clearer message to the large group of social welfare recipients who can be helped out of the role of passive social welfare recipients, than the general words and phrases the party otherwise uses to set up for the weakest. Of course, we have to be afraid to create A and B layers, but the really important thing to get more people to work is to see the situation of each social worker, see the possibilities of each of them, and with each one of them add a race to get on with it. That is what I believe the qualification programme will contribute to. To the right, it is well in this context to say that there must be more evidence of a lack of good arguments when one chooses to link his remark to the fact that the qualifying aid scheme starts with 19 pilot municipalities and 53 million. kr. We all know that there was something the government put into the 2007 budget to show the way. The major sums, the real reforms will come in 2008-2009 and will be completed by 2010 – if the ambitions can be met, because then we have established NAV offices in all municipalities. This is a huge reform both economically and in terms of content, which will really be something that remains after this government. The collection of today’s schemes of rehabilitation money,return money and time-limited unpaid pay in one single scheme – a time-limited income hedge – is also a decisive step. In the future, we will be able to meet people with far more custom-made solutions, where rehabilitation, skills building and work training are seen as integrated, and not as they are now, that they are coming together over the course of a year. I therefore perceive this temporary income hedge and the fact that we see this in the context, as a very important part of this message. An overall committee underlines the importance of continuing to prioritise users in need of permanent work and work with assistance. It is important that our objective of inclusion in working life also applies to those who will have to rely on social security as primary income insurance. The VTA companies are among others: central to the care of many mentally retarded people. Of course, if the working line is to be used as a guideline for welfare policy, it must also include people with a desire and willingness to work, but where performance is limited, and the need for a secure framework is essential for participation. Municipalities are central as owners of VTA companies. It is important that we continue to show that the NAV cooperation between the State and the municipality is also concerned with the continuation of permanent work for those who are completely dependent on such an offer to get a place in the labour market. I'm glad we can confirm this. Finally, a few words about the process we are now in the middle of establishing the NAV organisation. A few days ago, the system for locating special units was presented. The reactions were, of course, influenced by whether a person experiences winning or losing in the resulting changes in workplaces. The principle of the establishment of special units was proposed by the Bondevik II Government and approved during the previous large-scale period. In its comments, the Committee underlines the importance that the first line is not weakened by the fact that some tasks are now withdrawn from the NAV offices and entered into the special units. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare will be closely followed in its follow-up to the mandates given, not least in the municipalities and among users who are nervous that the competence and ability to develop custom solutions may be impaired by the fact that part of the decisions are to be taken outside the NAV Office. It must not happen, and I am glad that a joint committee is behind such a premise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e600	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e603	On Friday we registered that the parliamentary leader of the Senterpartiet, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, made a flaming contribution to doing something about poverty, and she pointed to, among other things. the minimum pensioners. The centre party was together with the Progress Party in 1998 and made sure that the minimum pensioners received an income increase of NOK 1 000 per month. Now, the Central Party, at least according to the Netnews, says that you want a living rate survey among the country's minimum pensioners, and is willing to look at the possibilities of raising the minimum pension, which you haven't been before, once the Progress Party has proposed it, during this period. My question is then: Does this mean that the Central Party is doubtful about the Government's own pension policy regarding the level of the minimum pension, and can they assure us that in the future, the Centre Party will participate in and strengthen the minimum pension when proposals are made by the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e608	As the representative is aware, this government has quite ambitious arrangements to combat poverty and has had a package of measures for it in both of the budgets submitted. The centre party has wanted to focus on the situation of the minimum pensioners in that context. We are also aware that among the minimum pensioners, there are different levels of difficulty, but it is especially the lone minimum pensioners, where a large majority are women, who come out poorly in terms of income. They are to be caught up in the poverty efforts that the Government is putting up for further, and we want, as the representative also said, to clarify what measures can be particularly effective, so that we get a targeted commitment to lone minimum pensioners, who are poorly placed in today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e613	There were not many glimmers from the representative Sundsbø today. He did well to avoid it yesterday when he came in front of me in the loop. But it may be due to some glitches in relation to this – the representative Sundsbø even pointed to a- and b-sorting. My question is related to the qualifying aid aimed at the strongest and most healthy social welfare group. What about the very weakest social welfare group, which remains, and which does not get that opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e618	For a politician it is better to do this in Holmenkollen than in Stortinget. Again — a and b and the claim that this government, by introducing a qualification programme, allows those social recipients who are unable to enter it to fall completely outside. That's not the case. Firstly, this government has presented poverty packages that have in themselves elements that reach out to them; secondly, we have paid 200 million. kr. to the municipalities in order for them to be able to increase economic social assistance, and thirdly, we clearly say that if there is a disease that causes you to be a social welfare beneficiary, yes, it is social security that is the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e625	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e629	The left is essentially positive to what is the main content of the message, especially what we see as a new basic attitude: that it focuses on what people can and can be capable of, instead of what they can't. The left is concerned that the space for individual freedom is expanded and provides new opportunities for human growth. At the same time, we must find Community solutions that work and take care of both freedom, responsibility and solidarity. The left will stress that each citizen's ability to create and live the good life for himself and theirs is the goal of social development. People are different and need different solutions. Welfare services must always be based on respect for the integrity of individuals and be adapted to the needs and needs of individuals as much as possible. For the Left, welfare policy is about a strong state of public welfare that offers equal opportunities and dares to give priority to those who need it the most. The left is in favour of the Government continuing the work on the NAV reform, which was adopted and launched under the Cooperation Government, where the Left was involved. Successful reform will be an important prerequisite for a better and more targeted welfare policy, especially towards those who need it the most. The left is in favour of leaving the Workers' Party's resistance to'scratch' and for the Government in the welfare message to provide greater flexibility and individual adaptations. It must be allowed to say that the expectations of a completely new policy, as promised by the Red-Greens, have not been fulfilled, but as long as the Government builds its policy on the framework as provided for by the previous government, we are satisfied. There is a high potential in the NAV reform both in terms of simplification of legislation and greater use of discretion to benefit the individual user. However, the concerns of the left are a centralisation of the NAV offices, where, in particular, small municipalities will not have the key competence required by a more discretionary reform. The left is concerned that the competences required for the implementation of the welfare reform will not benefit users, because the first-line service is drained for resources by centralisation. If this happens, the point of a door entering the NAV system will be gone. Then there will be a door in and then a new number of doors where the users will line up. Several alarming feedback from employees in the NAV offices and from small municipalities reports that the entire staff does not join when the NAV offices are set up. The staff from the different units will be reduced, and the rest will be located in the special units outside the municipalities. The whole intention of the NAV reform by Stortinget was that the first line service should make decisions with the users. If the first line service fails to do this, the reform will be different. The left is positive to the system of temporary wage subsidies, both in order to ensure those who are in the process of falling out of the labour market due to sickness or other causes, and to provide more flexible opportunities for those who are out of the labour market. However, the left does not support the proposal on quotas for migrants and disabled people. It is very important that both groups enter the labour market more easily, but the Left wants to use non-quota instruments to achieve this. The Norwegian labour market is built for insiders. Labour law provides good protection for those who have work but is an obstacle to those who are outside. Here it is important to distinguish theory from practice. A number of alarming studies have pointed out that employers and managers, in practice, take too little account of people with a minority background or disability. I think we'll never get this through law alone. There must be changes in the attitudes of the individual employer. Employers have doubts about ‘taking the chance’ of employing a person with a migrant background or disability. We all want it to be different, but the Left believes that other instruments than just law have to exist. There must be a greater use of awareness campaigns. The general policy of creating new jobs is the most important solution for the entry of excluded workers into the labour market. Through a better policy for entrepreneurs, a new view of entrepreneurs and simpler rules for new businesses, many new jobs can arise. Business regulation and administration are too difficult and poorly adapted to the reality of small businesses today. It's an obstacle to all businesses, but maybe especially where you don't have Norwegian as your mother tongue. Individual enterprises should be able to provide a simplified business form, as individuals. In addition, simple ‘start-up packages’ for establishment should be available to make it easier for individuals to start separately. The left considers it important to invest in entrepreneurship schemes for immigrants. This may, for example: is included in the introduction programme and combined with microcredit schemes, i.e. small loans to people who are not considered creditworthy by ordinary banks. The left would stress that labour law rules need to be reformed to encourage flexibility and susceptibility. Today’s fixation on a single form of employment – the permanent – automatically requires people without permanent employment in hopelessly weak positions. Priority is given to those who work and are part of a trade union. The system does not exist for those on the outside. The left is concerned that the work on modernising labour law rules must continue. The ability to test someone must be extended from six to twelve months. It is also necessary to extend the possibility of temporary employment of enterprises in the event of stoppages from six to twelve months. This increases the likelihood that enterprises will dare to hire people who have not previously been established on the labour market. The left will stress that participation in working life is the most important measure for individual citizens to secure themselves and their families against poverty and social exclusion. The left is therefore in favour of the notification containing schemes that are labour-intensive. However, the Left is concerned that the qualification programme of welfare contracts can contribute to the creation of an A and B team. The left is concerned about sorting people into the most disadvantaged group in our society. A large proportion of social clients have complex disorders related to drug use and psychiatry. These must get the necessary help to master their lives. There is a need for a new basic social policy approach based on a positive human view, using positive instruments that include, motivate and responsibility the user to use his own abilities and forces to achieve his own goals and opportunities. The left considers that the use of an individual level/personal level would be a better concept in order to avoid a slightly misleading concept of ‘contract’ in this context, also in order to avoid legal implications. Increased use of judgement and flexible and individual solutions is positive. The disadvantage is that it also gives each case handler great power, and it will be crucial for the legal certainty of each user that the remedies are sufficiently secure. The left will follow this development closely. The left does not support the qualification programme, because we believe that it only benefits the most resource-intensive of the weak groups. Getting out of poverty traps is not just about getting more money, but about getting out of the situation you're in, whether there's drug problems, mental distress or the like. Close follow-up for those in need of assistance and less rigid legislation for those in need of social benefits is important in order to free resources at each NAV office, so that employees can do what they are trained to do, namely to help people. These are solutions that, in the view of the Left, can be realised by employing citizens' wages. The left has the objective of introducing a guaranteed minimum income for all those who, for different reasons, do not enter the ordinary working life and are thus able to provide for themselves. At the same time, a system of pay for citizens shall not lead to inaction and prevent active job-seeking for the beneficiaries. It should be a personal action plan which should be broadly defined. The individual user must be involved in setting targets for his activity, which must not mean wage work, but may accommodate a type of activity that allows the individual to help himself or herself to live better or more stable lives. The left’s solution to the pay gap will help to prevent people from feeling like clients, counteract passivity and make it easier for individuals to know what is required for minimum public performance. The amount of the civil salary shall be 2,5 G and shall be considered as taxable income. Citizen pay creates more dignity and justice in social policy, because it opens up more individual-oriented solutions, which are the Left's vision. Different people with different problems require new and individual solutions. A welfare society is measured by how we take care of our weakest. In Norway, it is no longer the most important thing to give more to everyone, but to help individuals who need it. I refer you to the setting and take up the suggestions of the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e667	The representative André N. Skkelstad has drawn up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e672	I have a question for the representative of Skkelstad that concerns the salary of the citizen. The left says that they are opposed to the qualification programme and benefit with their clear performance and counter-performance requirements, which are to qualify, and the whole system is based on ‘drawing wages’ if they do not follow their scheme. The left is opposite because it will create an A and B layer, Skkelstad has just said. My question then goes on a civil salary, or guaranteed minimum income: what happens to the minimum income if the user in a civil salary system does not follow up his individual plan? If you want to lose the minimum income, what's the difference between A and B layers here and there? If you don't want to lose, how will the Left ensure that the civil salary doesn't become a passive benefit? And then I have a question in the end, about the size of the citizen's salary. It has always, as long as I have followed the Left's position in that matter, been at 2 G, as late as December. When did the upgrade to 2.5 G happen? Can the Left with his hand on his heart say that it was not just to override the Government's scheme for the qualification program?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e679	I'll start with the last first, 2.5 G. We've spent a long time evaluating 2 or 2.5 G. What we became aware of was that if it was to be a simplification, the housing support system would not have to be retracted, but would be excluded. It is also one of the arrangements that I think we should have gone through. We see that this should be a taxable income, like 2 G, as the government also suggests. But if the user is not going to get into the social security trap, as many people have pointed out, the minimum salary must be about 2.5 G, instead of being left with a performance of 2 G. So to the question of whether there won't be a passivity, as Lise Christoffersen mentions. I don't think it's going to be a passover at an individual plan, where you have a follow-up to each user. I think this will be a much more valuable scheme than what it's added to in the qualification programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e686	The Party of Progress is opposed to the creation of the qualifying aid. This was supported by several people who came to the hearing in connection with the notification. Several of these hearing bodies also pointed out that many would be less affected by this scheme than is the case today. The left claims that the citizen pay option will be a much better scheme. But is there really any difference between the qualifying aid and Left's civil salary, and how will Left organise the payment of the civil salary? Is it considered to be organised by the State, as the Progress Party has called for in the case of social assistance?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e693	To start with the last one first again. In the first place, this is supposed to be a trial project, but we imagine that the organization is that the municipalities pay the piece they would have paid for social assistance, and then the state will be responsible for the excess up to the money limit. So to the differences of qualification program and citizen pay. Yes, there are big differences here, because only the freshest ones can be included in the qualification programme. The pay of the left's citizens will all have the opportunity to come under, and then they will also achieve a much greater degree of dignity, as everyone has the opportunity to come with, not just the freshest ones to go to work. It will be much, much better in my opinion that you have a greater and wider opportunity, by the fact that there are more people who have the right to pay than who want rights after the qualification programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e700	In the context of the qualification programme and the social benefits, the Left repeats the ‘strongest’ and ‘freshest’, and I would like to draw the representative’s attention to the fact that this is wrong. The offer shall be given to those who are assessed to be able to get into work through closer and more binding assistance, even in cases where the road ahead may be relatively long and uncertain, so that the claim that it is the freshest to have it is not correct. What can limit this is that you can't get enough resources into the system, and that you don't get enough health care, or the last option, that people who are actually going to have disability do not get it. That's why I'm very surprised that the Left is actually opposed to this scheme, which in many ways has many of the functions that the Left's citizens' pay and the SV's social pay have. Can the representative of the Left explain this resistance, and where does he come from that it is only the freshest and strongest who will have this opportunity? Because that's not what the proposal says.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e705	That is where I and the representative, Andersen, disagree. I see that parts of the qualification programme are good for the freshest and fastest when it comes to getting out of work, but it will still be those who can't get out of work, and it will be those who are the weakest. They'll still be on social welfare without any kind of follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e710	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e713	Let me start by saying that I think it's been an interesting debate, exciting to sit and listen to, and I'm of course glad that the main impression of the debate is that we agree on most things in many ways. I will not underestimate the fact that there is some disagreement, but that is not what characterises neither the vote nor the debate, and I think that is very good, because as many people here have pointed out from the pulpit, the big thing we are now doing, and it is clear that we are doing that because we have a fairly similar and common analysis, which goes on that there is a need for change. None of us now need to hit our chests and say that what we did when we were in government was so good that there is no need for change. We agree that there is a need for change, major change, and that is a very good starting point for doing something, whether you are in opposition in the Storting or in position here in the Storing or in government offices. So it's very important for me to stress that we need to see what we're doing today when we're dealing with the paper on work, well-being and inclusion, in the context of the NAV reform, the organisational change of the welfare kit. It is a whole – the NAV reform is the organisational change. We are convinced that it not only leads to reorganisation without it affecting the users, we also believe that the reorganisation will be good for the users, but in addition we are very aware that the reorganisation itself will not be enough, we also have to do something about the welfare arrangements and the facilities on them. That is why we are now working on the content of NAV, and that is the reorganisation together with the new content that will form the basis for the reform as a whole. Both are equally important. And then why are we so concerned about this? Well, more people have been into it. Today, Tuesday, March 20, there were about 700,000 non-working Nordics. Many of them are far from working life, many of them relatively close to work – I find that today the flu has also hit me! But we know that many of those who are sick should not be sick long before the distance to work becomes scary big, and that leads many to feel that they cannot be included in a working life they really wanted to be part of – although it is also important to remember that many of the 700,000 are disabled, and should be disabled. This also means that many companies today have a job, have a potential for development, but lack of labour, and it leads me to stand here today as the responsible State Council for an incredibly large bag of money, 1/3 of the state budget of the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Inclusion – money that I think we all very much want to have spent on something else. We may not have agreed what we should have used them for, but at least for something other than what we use them for today. I'm probably the only government council that would have been happy to have a smaller budget. It would have been a sign of achievement from my point of view. This, coupled with demography, population development, where we see that we are getting more and more elderly people who are going to have more and more care services, while at the same time having no corresponding growth in the working part of the population, we are in a situation where, for the sake of the individual, for the business community and for the state, we have to be able to reverse the negative developments that have been in recent years. If we don't do it, it's not a question of whether it goes wrong, but of when it goes wrong. That is why I believe that what we are working on in the storeroom today is Norway's second most important political project. We must now succeed in this. We've said it many times before, but now we don't just have to get in the situation that we're talking about it again, we have to succeed in the project that we now basically have in common. The NAV reform is implemented as planned. We established the Directorate of Labour and Welfare on 1 July 2006. We established the county offices by merging the county work offices and county ironing offices. In the autumn of 2006, we established pilot municipalities, pilot offices, in all the counties of the country – one in each state, two in Oslo. This year, as planned, we set up 120 NAV offices, so that by the end of 2007 we will have about 130 NAV offices in place. Last week we carried out step 1 in the follow-up to the establishment of special units, in the form that NAV now launched what they wanted to do in this area, in order to free up time for more user-oriented work at the local NAV offices. It's also a difficult revolution. There is a relocalisation of 1,400 state jobs, which should therefore lead to better time at the local NAV offices to work with the user, the user's needs and measures to get the user to work. When I used the term ‘step 1’, it was because what was now launched last Wednesday was the NAV proposal. However, a very rapid decision-making process is envisaged so that these special units will be adopted over Easter and will be established during 2008. Then, in 2008 and 2009, we will phase into the last 300 municipalities, so that by the end of 2009, we have established NAV offices in all the municipalities of the country and have the entire organisation in place. Today we are working on the content of NAV, and more people have been involved in what I would call the four main steps of the content reform. First of all – and let me put it a little graphically: it is important that those who work in the NAV offices are given the opportunity to get their noses up from the rulebook and the regulations and to be able to see the user and the user’s needs. We're currently spending a lot of time and resources writing people in and out of plans and making decisions. A period is a man of recovery. That's not true. Then it's medical rehabilitation. That's not true. Then you're on temporary zero-free pay. So that wasn't the place to be. And then you're back on recovery. This is how the days go, and we spend time and effort and resources on making decisions, reading rules and calculating income insurance. We have to stop spending so much time and forces on it. We put together three schemes of popular security for one new, temporary security of income. Today, the spinal reflex of employees in our welfare settings is too much when the user enters the office very often this: Think what kind of scheme this user fits? How am I going to phase this user into one of the schemes? The spinal reflex we are now looking for is that the first thing the employee should think about is, what does this person need to get to work? What kind of action should we now take to get the person to work? That's why we simplify, eliminate regulation and make it more flexible. The second main approach we are taking is that we recognise that there is a strong link between income protection and measures today. Once again, then, when the user comes to the NAV office, or to the social security office or Aetat’s old office, the search for the right to do so and the type of security of income, he has the right to do so and that type of action. We have to replace it with a completely different thought, that is, that the measures must be guided by the user's needs, not by the income assurance provided by the user. Therefore, we remove the bonds between income protection and measures. Everyone entering the NAV office is entitled to any action. We know that it is demanding to get people who are permanently disqualified, back to work. Not least, we have – and I think that is perhaps under-communicated in the debate so far – few means we can really go into a bad way when people are about to run out of work on a permanent basis. That is why we are setting up the time-limited scheme, which can be used up to the entire disability benefit as a permanent wage subsidy. It should not only be used for people who have been disadvantaged, but it should also be possible to use it when working together between the company, user and NAV to see that there is a need for powerful instruments to prevent permanent exclusion and permanent disability. So you have to be able to go into this scheme as a permanent wage subsidy in advance of exclusion. I guess I really have more faith in the effect of the scheme in that way than in getting people permanently dissatisfied back to work. Fourthly, we introduce the qualification programme. There is a debate here in the Chamber on whether there is something new or nothing new. It is said that even today it is such that municipalities can lay down conditions for social assistance. Yes, but we must also note that very few municipalities do. And then it's very right to say that the municipalities can set conditions for social assistance. But the fundamental importance of the qualification programme is that all municipalities are obliged to have it, and that it is confirmed as a right for those who need it. Now the Stortinget will have the bill sent to treatment during the spring, and then you can go into the details of the rights. But the guiding principle is that when the municipalities have NAV offices, it is not that they can consider having a qualification programme. No, they will have a qualification programme, and users who can see that kind of action will have a right to the measure. There is, of course, something new about the social service law today. Then there's been a debate about this just for the strongest, the freshest. I think the representative Karin Andersen took care of that in the line change with André N. Skjelstad. This is a programme to be adapted individually, taking account of the needs of the user. These measures shall be set up in such a way that there is something to go by, but also the possibility of being included in the list. The aim is to use long-term, proper measures to get users to work. And if that's how the work performance assessment suggests that the user is too sick – and you have to reflect on that when you use the term "fresh enough" – well, then you shouldn't be working sick people, they should be sick or unsatisfied. This is why, of course, the qualification programme is not targeted at people with permanent disease-like conditions. We have a bad time, as many have said, because it's urgent. The disability benefit scheme as a permanent wage subsidy is set up as an experiment in five counties this year, with a view to making the nationwide next year. The qualification programme will be established this year. The law is submitted to Stortinget during the spring. We start up in the first municipalities this year, we aim to eliminate the link between measures and income protection next year, and the new temporary income protection scheme in the public sector will be in place on the basis of the objective of 1 January 2009. So when we get to 1 January 2010, all the measures that the Storting joins today are to be completed. The whole NAV reform shall be implemented, and it shall be carried out in parallel with the implementation of the entire new pension scheme and ready to rise and run from 1 January 2010. So I can feel taken by some criticism, but when the criticism from Martin Engeset is that this is going too late, then I don't feel particularly hit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e772	It's going to be line change, limited to five lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e775	There are a number ofoffers in support companies, permanent job placements, work with assistance, and other organisers offering labour market measures and follow-up of a variety of types. It is important that targets are set for these providers in terms of success. Some people are good at getting people into the ordinary labour market. Others, again, are worse off. The objectives set by the Council of State for the transition to the ordinary labour market and the use of time per year are: user? And what does the Council of State think about protecting them with special needs and long-term follow-up from being hit by the fact that they are ‘bringing’ good statistics?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e782	The representative is now addressing a very demanding topic. On the one hand, we want to make demands, and we want to measure that, for example. The rehab companies get people over from reintroduction to work. The most important thing is not successful return holdings, which do well as reintroduction holdings. The most important thing is that they do things to get people back to work. On the other hand, it's very demanding just to count the number of people, because this will depend to those degrees on the kind of starting point of the individual human being. It's very hard to imagine an ideal and perfect system. I don't think we have it today, even though we feel like we're measuring a lot of important things today. But that's probably an expression that we have a job to do with processing and quality assurance targets and performance management systems in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e787	One of the main objectives of the NAV reform notification is to bring many of those outside the labour market back into a situation where they are integrated into the labour market and can live on their own earnings. In the Storing Message, the Government writes very well, among other things. on page 215, which reads as follows: ‘On this basis, as part of the follow-up to this Communication, the government will also assess whether adjustments to such supplementary benefits may be necessary, which may support the objective of making work more profitable rather than social security.’; It is very well said and difficult to understand in any other way than that the Government considers it unfortunate that the sum of supplementary benefits and social security benefits can lead to the total payment of more than one can obtain in the labour market. Then I feel that the Council of State's party divisions in the WCC are distanced from this and reject the fact that it may be appropriate to adjust the performances, as the Council of State itself writes in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e801	I clearly believe that it is unfortunate that we have a system that makes those who have very many additional benefits to the main benefit come in a situation where they have more in social security – to put it simply – than they would have obtained from a relatively decent salary in Norway. That's why I think that's all the reason to look at it, and that's why we write this in the government's message. What is challenging is that the main benefit itself is rarely such as to exceed the salary but to be supplemented by supplementary benefits imposed on each other. We're going to go through it in a proper way – not to assume that we're going to punish people back to work, but because there should be some bearer principles. And the guiding principle is that it's going to pay off all the time to work. When we find that this is not always the case today, we must look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e808	If we are to succeed in getting more people to work, everyone has to contribute. The implementation of the NAV reform and the implementation of the measures in the welfare notification may mean that the authorities are doing so. The question is whether we should also require more from private and public employers. It is a major dilemma that many employers feel that the cost of employment is much higher than the final cost. We know that several large companies have actively and without any problems used exclusion through early retirement and disability relief. We also know that public enterprises have often behaved more cynically than private businesses. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to increase the employers' costs of exclusion. How does the Council of State assess this, and what plans does it have to ensure that employers will actively contribute to the creation of more people?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e817	I guess I really feel like we're in the lucky situation that time is working for us. I feel very strongly that the pipe has been given a different sound – to use a perhaps unparliamentary expression – in many parts of business today, because one sees that the main challenge is not getting rid of people but getting access to people. You don't have the labour force. That's why we see a huge commitment to parts of business now in terms of both senior policy, let me mention Grandbrand as an example, the integration of the immigrant population, let me mention Ullevål hospitals and the Post as an example, and also the recruitment of disabled people, there, for example. Telenor now sees that by focusing on these groups, you get the labour you need, which you would otherwise have missed. The challenging thing, and here I want to agree with Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, is that we don't get enough grip on the government employers in particular. Here we're going to work hard and purposefully, and I hope for the support of the Christian People's Party in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e824	In general, the Council of State is right in agreeing to a large extent on what appears in the communication. And, vice versa, of course, we disagree on something, like citizen pay and qualification program. That's where we're known to disagree a little bit. But I want to address another issue. After traveling a lot around in the Nord-Trøndelag, I have registered a concern that the competence of the first line will be lost for resources in a centralisation. I am aware that this competence is not meant to disappear – nor is it the intention in relation to the NAV reform – but will the Council of State follow this closely in the future, so that the competence – as it was initially intended – is not weakened in the first line?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e829	Firstly, it is important to say that I now make a reservation as to whether I remember the figures exactly, but I believe I have read that of the 24 municipalities of Nord-Trøndelag, 15 municipalities are protected from issuing posts to the special units. For the smallest municipalities, those with three or fewer employees in the social security office, shall not be in this capacity to give up. So out of 24 municipalities, I think about 15 are screened. In other words, there are nine municipalities, e.g. my own municipality of Namsos, which is a relatively large city, must leave to the special unit. So this unrest related to the centralization and bottling of large parts of a state like this. Nord-Trøndelag, is based on a lack of knowledge of what we're actually doing. But it is clear that we need to keep up with this. This is an approach that is taken to strengthen user work in local offices — not to weaken it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e836	In the spring of 2002, the Stortinget examined the Riksrevision’s study on disability pension and occupational rehabilitation. At that time it became clear that only 15.4 pst. by those who received a disability pension, had passed through a race with reintroduction in advance, even though it is one of the criteria that you should pass before you are granted a retirement pension. 40 pst. between 20 and 24 years of age had not tried reintroduction at all. One of the main reasons was that you didn't have enough re-injection for people with mental disorders. Today, too, it is the way to point out that there is too much support for people with mental health problems and young people. How will the Council of State address this? Will he strengthen the offer, and when will he come back to the Storting with a strengthening for this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e843	First of all, I think it's important to take on what we're dealing with now, i.e. that the system in the future has to rely more on a much faster and proper job performance assessment. I believe that the demand that the under-employed are to go through years of various measures, where it could have been said quite early in the course of time that it will in any case lead to disability is unworthy, and we use it enormously with resources. So we have to have a much better job performance assessment in the past so that you can say faster to those who will be permanently dissatisfied, that they will be. Then you also get a smaller and more clear group to work with for good and proper return runs. As we step up efforts towards people with disabilities and work with the breadth of the action portfolio there, I feel confident that in the future we will have a system that will reduce the number of long-term unemployees and that will also be better experienced for people with mental disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e849	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e854	The reform we are dealing with today is, as I see it, the first step towards achieving a more comprehensive and comprehensive welfare policy. Unfortunately, you don't take the step completely, and you might not be able to see the larger parallels. I wish that a greater step could be taken and a more holistic welfare policy could be seen – where people had been seen in a much broader and holistic perspective. Therefore, it is rather disappointing that the Government does not want to fully integrate economic social assistance into the new NAV reform. My experience as a municipal politician was that when one discussed the budgets for social assistance, one set, after having had a number of repeaters, long-term beneficiaries, and considered: how are we going to be able to get this person dissatisfied, so that he is no longer a burden on our municipal budget? That's why it's a shame you don't take the dimension of fully integrating this group. If a more comprehensive funding had been provided for well-being, where people had seen man in a much larger and wider context, these kind of conflicts had also been avoided as I sketched. The same applies to the drug user. We can, for example: Take the drug user who is on the street in Oslo, in Trøndelag or elsewhere in the country, who is motivated to go to treatment, who wants out of their problem situation. Then he goes to the municipality and asks for help. The municipality then makes contact with the health business in order to obtain treatment for the person concerned. In many cases, he may have to wait for many months to receive this treatment, which means that he is back on the road again before treatment has taken place. In addition, if he is treated, he should return to the community, and the municipality is then responsible for follow-up. Here again, we see examples of the municipality discussing and saying, "We've spent so much time on this person, it would be a lot better if we got him disapproved and transferred to a different budget than ours." That is why I hope that the Government will further develop the welfare reform so that we can achieve a much better and more comprehensive welfare system in Norway in the near future. I would also like to comment on a few other points. One is VTA, which has been a part of the discussion. I find it sad that it is now up to the municipalities to participate in a co-financing of VTA. I think it is a pity that the majority does not support the proposal of the Progress Party on 100 p.m. State financing of VTA enterprises. I have my own experience, by being at the summer job of a VTA company last summer, that there's a huge commitment to those who work there, the commitment and the work ethic of the employees is enormously high. I think that getting a more unclear funding model gives you a worse VTA offer in the future, which is really the exact opposite of what you originally wanted. Let me also point to another area that is a challenge in welfare policy. There is a need for more uniform governance between the different departments. We can look at, for example: rehabilitation. Rehabilitation is one of the most important factors in getting people back to work. You can look at e.g. LHL's experience in people with heart attacks. 70-90 pst. of those who have been through a rehabilitation service come back to work. Those who are not offered rehabilitation will in most cases end up with disability benefits. At the same time, we know that just on LHL's rehabilitation units, there's a hundred vacancies. I hope that the Government will also take this dimension, get more interaction with the Ministry of Health and Social Affairs and use this capacity to achieve the goal of people coming back to work. What this is about is giving people dignity and a worthy opportunity to participate in the same line with everyone else. Then no obstacles can be put in the way of a heavy-duty and bureaucratic system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e867	The paper on work, well-being and inclusion that we are dealing with today will mean enormously much for how many people in our country will get it in the future. This message is about taking seriously the fact that there are currently between 700,000 and 800,000 people on the edge of the workforce. It's not good that we have almost 130,000 people living with social assistance, or that almost 300,000 are disabled. I am convinced that very many of these both want to be and could have been part of the working life. Then we have to give them an opportunity to do just that. Today we have record low unemployment in Norway. That's very good. But there are still too many people who could have been at work and who are involuntarily put on the sidelines. I think that when we are in a period of so low unemployment, and there are great opportunities to get a job, it might be experienced by many of those who are now passively receiving benefits, as an even greater challenge to get into the labour market – that the distance is perceived as even greater, because they are unable to compete with other and more skilled jobseekers. That's why it's vital that we now take a cap to give all of these an opportunity and an actual chance to participate in the world of work. It's about providing security to people, and it's about equalizing differences. But this means that we have to change the whole way we think in our welfare society. Today, very many of those who receive some form of benefit get very little follow-up in getting into work or activity. For example, you receive: time-limited unemployment, active intervention or social assistance is not required, it is entirely by chance whether or not activity and action are offered. This is completely wrong. Therefore, I believe that the main approach to providing services as needed, using the whole chain of measures within the framework of the NAV reform, will mean a great deal, where a system of flexibility should be applied instead of rigid rules, where we are now going to have a system that is more characterised by labour-oriented measures and services and more marked by discretion. Substitution of the current system of rehabilitation benefits, re-employment benefits and time-limited unpaid pay by a simpler and more labour-oriented time-limited security of income is quite correct. Then the resource use will be shifted from a social welfare manager to a regime with activity and follow-up. By using the work experience assessment, offers should be made as necessary. The system we've had up until now, which is based on performance to determine measures, has not worked. This has led many to go through a mix of different benefits and to a passivity. It's going to end. People will get early clarification and follow-up based on the situation they actually are in. Seeing the individual individuals in that context is absolutely crucial to our success. And it's not right, as the representative Engeset said earlier today, that there has sometimes been opposition in the Workers' Party to tailoring and seeing individuals. On the contrary! We're dedicated to giving all individuals equal opportunities, and we're dedicated to using all the tools to get it done. And with regard to the new temporary income hedge, it will make it easier to combine different measures across borders. It will be easier to set off at an earlier stage, and it will be easier to have a targeted follow-up throughout the benefit period. Having 130,000 social welfare recipients in one of the richest countries in the world is nothing to be proud of. Nor is it anything to be proud that a few of these have been offered activity and help to get into work. Some municipalities have used conditions related to social assistance, but it may not have served as a tool to gain skills and new opportunities. We know, however, and at the same time, that trials and projects that have been mentioned by many here today, where active follow-up and qualification have been used, have produced results. Many have come to work. That is why I am proud and happy that the Government will introduce the qualification programme and the social benefits that will make many of those who are today long-term beneficiaries of social assistance a new everyday life. This is about taking people seriously. Now they will receive training and work training, and they will have a more predictable economy. I started by saying that this message will mean too many. The policy we're going to adopt will mean a lot to get more people out of work. Working for everyone is the most important tool we have to reduce social differences. We want to prevent exclusion and social problems. I'm very proud to be part of a party and a majority on the Stortinget that makes an offensive to get to a more inclusive society. I am delighted to see the policy we are adopting today, put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e882	It was the Council of State who used such strong words as that this might be the most important matter the Stortinge treats during this period. At least I agree with that wording, taking into account the subject matter. But I guess that's just a little bit of what we're dealing with right now. There is no doubt that the Norwegian welfare state will not be able to sustain itself through economic growth with the labour reserve we now have in the country, if we do not have the power to release that part of the reserve that is out of the labour force – i.e. approximately. One-fourth. At present, we are being helped by a cyclical peak of labour immigration. I'm glad, but we can't expect it to continue to the same extent, for reasons that others have had in the past. Moreover, releasing resources from our own workforce is more important, more socio-economically profitable and more insistent for us as Norwegian politicians, both because increasing access to work gives joy and inclusion, it increases tax revenue, i.e. the possibility of paying for well-being, and it reduces social security costs. So in many ways it's a triple effect of this that's important. What I am calling for is the activity of the Council of State in more short-term action. The Minister of Finance has used the expression that the biggest obstacle to economic growth in Norway in this year and in the years to come will be labour shortages. Then it's urgent to do something. System changes and long-term measures are important, pension reform is important and measures that come into force from 2010 are important. But we need to do something now. So far, we have only experienced the good intentions of the Council of State to vote for proposals by reference to eternal investigations and long-term implementation. It won't last. That is why I would like to use an expression from someone whom I do not quote too often, namely Per Olaf Lundtigen, who in a recent debate at the Central Party national meeting said that leaving monetary policy is the only contribution to tightening up the economy in Norway, it goes wrong. For this reason, it is important to focus on labour market measures that increase access to labour, both from our own strength and in general from abroad, so that interest rates do not rise simply. There is a context in the economy where the labour market is currently playing an increasingly important role. There is no willingness to reconsider the functioning and medical arrangements of misconduct, as proposed by the Right, to be dealt with later today. We have proposed that disabled people should be able to come to the employer more easily and say that the adjustments they require pay the country for – call it the green card in a single term. And when we see how bad it is, especially in the public sector, to increase access to the labour market for people with disabilities, there is a need to do something now. On the sick leave side, I have a hope that something will be done, but it takes time. What is the most precarious is that rehabilitation and rehabilitating agents can be used by enterprises, or enterprises in cooperation, during the health notification period. Because when the numbers are as scary as that 87 pst. Of those who have been sick for a year, never come back to work, it goes without saying that this early phase of sick leave is critical of doing something. I will go very quickly over the fact that we currently also have eleven proposals in a representative proposal from the Right to increase access to experts in Norwegian working life, in the field of labour immigration. It is possible to do something with immediate effect. And as the last example, I'm going to say that we have a workforce between 67 and 70 years that would like to work full time alongside getting their rightful pension, but they're being curtailed – also a measure that could give a certain amount of access to more people in the short term. And all it takes is a budget decision to get it done. Finally, I have to say that it's really pretty easy to read that on the top of a business cycle -- where we are now -- Statoil, our largest company, where the state has some influence, early retirement as one of the offers of the well 2,500 that are insurmountable. It is a bad signal and completely unnecessary in the economic cycle we are now in. It would have been a lot wiser if Statoil had done something like that. Telenor has done earlier, with great luck: be an active intermediary of jobs to those who become unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e899	For people with chronic disorders, such as: Revmatians, heart disease and pulmonary disease will be strongly linked to access to regular rehabilitation services. These may include treatment trips abroad, a stay at a training establishment, the possibility of different types of physical training, hot water training and, in particular, physiotherapy. A study from the LHL and data from the Norwegian Rehabilitation Association show that good rehabilitation is leading to a long-term recovery of the individual in the workplace, and then again to need a new rehabilitation round in addition to regular physical maintenance. The Progress Party welcomes the focus on labour-oriented rehabilitation as an important tool for people to stay in the labour market. However, the currently available clarification and job training services are not sufficient. We believe it is important to develop a better offer in this area, so that the individual can get the best possible offer. Furthermore, the Progress Party believes that labour-oriented rehabilitation for many users should be included as a measure in an individual plan. The Communication points out that there are unclear responsibilities between healthcare and NAV for occupational rehabilitation. It is very important that this relationship is clarified as soon as possible. The NAV offices, which are responsible for the work of users, should also be able to refer users to offers that provide job-oriented rehabilitation. It is the view of the Progress Party that both public and private offers must be invested and that there is no objective for NAV to develop the services itself. The capacity of the rehabilitation centres should also be extended. This should be done in close cooperation with the network of centres currently operating occupational rehabilitation. The aim of the Progress Party is to ensure that as many sick people as possible return to work as quickly as possible. We believe that the purchase of healthcare is an effective way to do this. In addition, responsibility for the purchase of healthcare should be transferred from the regional health establishments to the NAV offices. Furthermore, increased investment in labour-oriented rehabilitation should be an important area of activity in order to succeed in getting more people back to work. In addition, a separate entry should be created in the State budget where funds are allocated for this purpose. The responsibility for the funds should be placed under the responsibility of NAV. It's also important to bring that 50 pst. of the disease reports in this country are due to rheumatism and musculoskeletal disorders, and many with these disorders suffer from disability. This is why the Progress Party responds with astonishment to the Government's restraint in drawing up a plan of action for the treatment, rehabilitation and training of people with, among other things. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders, as proposed by the Advance Party. We just heard a post asking for immediate response arrangements. Among other things, the green card scheme was developed to increase the number of disabled people in work. The need for more advanced schemes is great. Disabled people are an important group in this respect. This Communication does not contain any rapid action. In the context of the State budget, the Progress Party proposed to enter into an agreement with the FFO and Norway's Handicap Association to get more disabled people into work quickly. I just had a meeting with the Business Association where I asked if they knew about the arrangements that are already in place. None of the companies present at that meeting knew about the arrangements. It shows the need for us to market such schemes properly. And who can do it better than just the FFO and the Disability League, who knows where the shoe is pressing? We have proposed this, but the government was totally unwilling to meet us. Then I can't help but comment on the representative, Karin Andersen, who drew a picture of the Right in the chord shift. I'm not going to go to the Right in terms of this. But when Karin Andersen takes the freedom, I dare take the freedom to ask Karin Andersen how she can be satisfied with – as she clearly gave the impression – a reform where the social offices remain municipal. It's a system like SV – and thus Karin Andersen – was totally opposed a few years ago. As if that's not enough, Karin Andersen tried to live on social assistance over a period of time. And she concluded that it was impossible with the bets you have today. If that is impossible, how can SV, and Karin Andersen, present this reform and claim that they are satisfied with it – without increasing the rates? Is she satisfied that there is no way to live on social assistance? In the debate, it has been argued by the government parties that social strife is high enough. They also say they have increased bets – that was the point from Karin Andersen. The rates have not been increased at all. The government has recommended that you increase them, and that it is up to each local government to do so. Although this is not a line change, I have a question for Karin Andersen. It could be interesting to know how many camels SV are willing to swallow to continue to be allowed to be in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e929	Today’s debate shows that there is broad support for the objective of an inclusive working life where we use better and more policy instruments to create room for those who, for various reasons, have weak links with the labour market. For the Workers' Party, this is about solidarity with those who are today coming out badly into society. Work is the source of wealth both for individuals and for society. High levels of professional participation provide freedom for individuals, create equality and counteract class divisions in society. In our opinion, an organised working life is an inclusive working life. Strong and socially knowledgeable trade unions and employers’ organisations are important driving forces in society, and they are indispensable in creating a working life where there is room for everyone. We have two objectives: we need to prevent social exclusion, and we need to enable more people who are outside today to come in. Is it so that professional rights, such as a high level of protection against redundancies, hinders the achievement of these objectives – as the Left Party and the Progressive Party state in their comments – or is it contrary to this that professional rights and strong social organisations are a prerequisite for achieving these objectives? These are important policy lines of labour market policy that deserve attention in today's debate. Safety frameworks in the labour market are important to prevent sickness, burnout and low retirement age. Norway is facing major challenges in getting enough hands to work. We are all well served with a modern working life that takes this perspective into account and facilitates the widest possible maintenance of the job. We need to create secure jobs that allow employees to focus on doing their job more than focusing on keeping it. When we dealt with the Working Environment Act in this Chamber in December 2005, it was important for the Workers' Party to strengthen the protection against dismissal, tighten the rules on temporary employment and create working time arrangements to live with. We have strengthened the position of workers and trade unions in the labour market. In Norway, as in the other Nordic countries, labour is largely regulated by collective agreements and by a relatively comprehensive law that protects workers. In liberal economic theory, this is the recipe for a high unemployment rate, by reducing adaptability, and by the fear of being stuck with workers who do not function, they do not dare to hire people. This is a vision that is targeted by the Right, Left and Advance Party in the setting we are currently dealing with. In my view, reality is the opposite. In Norway, we have a very high level of professional participation in general. We also have a higher professional participation among vulnerable groups than many countries that have weaker employee rights than we have. The clear figures show that temporary employment is not the way into the labour market for weak groups, but rather the recipe for a division of the labour force into an A team and a B team. I therefore believe that strong professional rights are not an obstacle to an inclusive working life. Is there any basis for claiming that our working life model gives us an advantage in creating an inclusive working life? I think the answer is yes. In enterprises where employers and employees cooperate, there are good opportunities to create a good and inclusive working environment. When employees are professionally organised, they have trusted access to education and skills development through their trade unions. The rights of employees are guaranteed by law and contract work and there are clear and well-functioning rules for conflict management. Employers who are organised have access to competence and assistance in their part of the cooperation processes. Equivalence and mutual respect created within such frameworks provide security and tranquillity, giving room for creativity and transparency. It is easier to reorganise when the rights of workers are respected. Then it will also be easier to make the concrete changes that may have to be made to the company in order for an older worker to continue for a few years, or for a partial disability to come in and get some work done. In this way, strong trade unions and professional rights become a positive factor in the work of including those who are outside, or who are at risk of being outside. We have to keep in mind that these are the people on the inside, who have to make things easier for them to get inside on the outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e958	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e961	I must say that I am very pleased that it is the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party that govern welfare and social policy today. I do not want to go back to the time when the Right was responsible for labour market policy. So I'm happy that we've been able to take a step in the right direction, even for those who have the most difficulty. I can assure the representative, Mr Svendsen, that I tried to do so under the previous regime, where the Progress Party was a supporter of that government, and it did not work at all. Now we're going to get a lift, for example. The qualification aid, which we – after listening to today’s debate – have reason to believe would not have been realized if today’s opposition had had power. It is right that I and SV believe that social assistance should be lifted. Yeah, we're working for it, because I think that's right. So that's where we've been able to take a step, which was completely impossible under the previous regime. The Progress Party now calls for state social assistance, but it does not help if it is to be as low as they clearly believe it to be. To the representative Eriksson, who had a post here instead: he obviously did not get the idea that social assistance is part of the local NAV. In fact, the law says it has to be. He was worried that the social welfare recipients would not get any offers, and referred to Verdal. I believe that what we are doing now with the qualification aid is just to take the consequences of what was learned in Verdal, that by making an offer through the qualification programme and the qualification aid, you are offering a different offer and a better offer to this group. That's exactly what this is all about. That's what this whole thing is about. So the representative, Eriksson, said that rehabilitation services for drug users are necessary. Yes, it is, and it must be strengthened. There must be cooperation, and there must be rapid intervention. There must be enough resources, because it has resources to do with whether we get this built up, not whether we have organized social assistance as part of NAV – whether it's still going to be a municipal benefit, or whether it's going to be a government benefit. SV has programmed that we want a government performance. However, it does not depend on whether we are able to obtain enough resources for rehabilitation services for drug users, which are absolutely necessary. Then the funding of VTA does not change according to today’s organisation – with one exception – and that is that the municipalities that do not currently have co-financing responsibility but that have users in the VTA companies will be involved in financing it. I would like to remind you that it is to a large extent the municipalities that own these companies. I am very concerned that the state will continue to have co-financing responsibility and take it heavily, but it is equally important that there will be good cooperation between the municipalities and the state in the future. Therefore, I believe that the solution outlined by the Progress Party is not a good solution for the VTA companies, because then you are getting away from the local government sector that owns the companies, and as has been said, you should also have a great share of responsibility and have a great interest in the future existence of these jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e976	I will start by making a mistake, so that at least it comes to the record and can be documented for later. On page 43 of the Committee’s opinion: ‘The Committee has taken note that the new temporary security of income in the social security system is intended to last for a period of 2 years.’ So it's wrong, because if you look up page 216 in the message, it says: ‘The concrete design of the duration of the new benefit will take place in the context of the legislative process.’ There has been an editor here, and then there has been a little lapsus in the editor that makes the time limit relative to the qualification programme pending the new temporary income hedge. - That's what they said. Since I have a few minutes left, I could imagine getting into the theme of sick leave, on which Per-Kristian Foss was in. Yes, it's increasing. This meant that the IA agreement was renegotiated and that funds were allocated to the State budget for further measures for rehabilitation, faster intervention and closer follow-up. But then again it's important to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. Researcher Roger Bjørnstad in the Statistical Central Bureau nuances this sick leave picture. He wrote in an article in Economic Analysis No. 6 a year ago that ‘when a control of economic fluctuations is the main factor behind the increase in sick leave is the entry into working life of groups expected to have a high level of sick leave’. So now we don't have to stare at individual budget posts so monotonously in the future that we ignore the fact that we succeed in one area, can actually have such consequences in another area. What the researcher says is that tightening up the sick pay system could lead to fewer people taking part in the work and thus weakening overall work effort, even if sick leave is reduced. So here we have a situation where an apparent lack of results in one area can actually be caused by the fact that we get results in another area. It's also important to bring it with you. So also Per-Kristian Foss was concerned that this government does nothing but look out towards the horizon, and just look at the long term. That's not true. There has been a lot of work since the government took over Stoltenberg II. This message is not the only government presenting to combat poverty. It needs to be seen in the context of the state budget poverty response for both 2006 and 2007, as amended by the Labour Environment Act, action plan against social dumping, action plan against inclusion, action plan against poverty, seniority, notification of pensions, non-preparation — which comes, and education as an instrument for social cohesion. It currently rolls out national health plans from the Ministry of Health and Welfare, both in the field of habilitation and rehabilitation, in terms of health inequalities, and it comes in the field of education. So here the instruments are in line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1002	It was Karin Andersen who made me take the floor again. In my post I did not mention Verdal with a single word, but when I get the opportunity, I would like to talk about Norway's most beautiful municipality, namely Verdal, and take that challenge on a tight arm also in this room. My point, in fact, was that it's not that it's a state funding of economic social assistance. The whole point of the Progress Party is just to get it integrated. If you now go into the NAV office in Verdal, which the Committee visited, there has been a completely different NAV office today than when we visited it. That time we came in one door. There were people who dealt with applications for economic social assistance, who set the social security system, and who put Aetat — in the same room. Today one comes in one door, then to go in two new doors. In the room we were inside, there is a wall that separates the municipal and state parts of the NAV office. It has been the result in Verdal, and it can anyone today go in the door and see. I'm regularly at that office talking to people who work there, and I also get the services I need in that office. Then I will correct a misunderstanding. I said the government is introducing a municipal co-financing of VTA. That's not right. I'm sorry. Today it is the case that municipalities also have a co-financing. My point of getting this state is precisely what the FFO also points to in its consultation opinion to the Committee, where they say that the FFO has previously raised in a number of different contexts a concern that the municipalities have not consistently complied with their responsibilities towards so-called protected enterprises. It is a problem that when local authorities do not follow that responsibility, it will affect users. There'll be fewer places. In order to prevent that from happening, it is much better, as the Progress Party has called for and suggested, to obtain state funding. Then you have to make sure that funding is in place, make sure that the number of places is available, and make sure that as many people with disabilities as possible get a decent daily life and have some meaning to go to, rather than become a quota item or a balancing item in the budgets, as is the case today. So I'm recording that the representatives Eriksson and Andersen disagree. But as far as I know, it's not like you have a government funding of social assistance. This is still the case – at least it was in my municipality when I was with and treated the municipal budget – that you have the social assistance on the municipal budget, and that is what we want to take out. It is a proposal we have made before, but which unfortunately SV has voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1016	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1019	The point is that social assistance is the benefit adopted by the Stortinget to be part of the NAV reform – a municipal benefit, but NAV must be a single office. If it is the case that some NAV offices are now setting up a new wall between the municipality and the state, I ask the council to note it and clean it up, so it should not be like this. My point was that the representative Eriksson was concerned that those who went on social assistance were given no other offer than to be pushed on to disability, and then you take the next step: to be against the qualification benefit – not the program, but the benefit. I don't think that's related. If you're concerned about people getting something else to do and not being pushed over to dissatisfaction and getting sicker and sicker, because if you walk in such a round dance, this is a golden opportunity to support the arrangement that is being given now. Because this is precisely what it is all about, people need to be given an individual job assessment and to be able to have an overall approach that can lead far more back to work. We've done it. We've seen it in many places.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1026	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2305]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1042	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1051	Martin Engset and Per-Kristian Foss have, on behalf of the Right, proposed alternative models for assessing the functioning and medical conditions of applicants in emergency situations. Proposalers indicate that there has been a sharp increase in the number of unsatisfied persons over a year. At the same time, numbers from the social security system show that only 17 pst. Of those who have been sick for a whole year, come back to work. The numbers are worrying. The doctors, and then very often the individual’s regularity, play a very important role in the fight against disability. Much may indicate that these doctors are too close to the patient and place too much emphasis on patients’ limitations over opportunities, while without doubt the decision is the one that ultimately knows more about the patient. There may be reason to look at these two sides of the meaning of the decision-makers before disability benefits are granted. According to letters from the Council of State of 9 October 2006, the OECD has identified the central role of treating doctors in the Norwegian social security system as a problem. In most other OECD countries, applications for early performance of neutral doctors who do not know the patient are assessed. These are either employed by the social security administration or carry out this job alongside other practices. Furthermore, the Council of State shows that in 2005 the Social Security Act carried out a two-part trial using independent doctors for assessment. In one trial, an independent doctor went through the unsolicited applications, and in the other, the independent doctors called for studies. The aim of the experiment was, according to the Council of State, to see whether the use of independent doctors would ensure better quality of the assessments submitted to the social security system. The project was evaluated by SINTEF Health. The most interesting findings of these were that doctors called for greater use of functional evaluations to clarify the relationship between disease and disability, and that medical conditions should have been clarified earlier in the social welfare programme. SINTEF’s doctors conclude that specialist assessments do not belong in the final phase. The project of the social security system and its evaluation clearly show a need for a review of the role of doctors in cases of miscarriage, which is agreed by both the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. However, in this case, the government parties believe, as in most other cases, that this can be seen in another context sometime in the future. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe this is an overly passive approach to an increasing problem, namely the violent growth in the number of disabled people in Norway. Norway has a shortage of labour, while becoming dissatisfied is a problem for the disabled person himself in the long term. The tighter economy and not being part of the labour market are perceived by many as very exclusive and difficult. It is therefore important to identify the individual’s residual working capacity and to facilitate the use of this residual working capacity to a much greater extent. In this context, doctors will have an important and central role to play. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left are therefore promoting a concrete proposal asking for the issue to be assessed and addressed. With this I address the proposal as it is in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1070	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1073	There is an overall opposition that today promotes a case in which they ask the Government to make proposals for alternative models for assessing the functioning and medical conditions of applicants in emergency situations, including the use of advisory doctors and medical specialists. The majority have proposed that this proposal be annexed to the Protocol. The reason for this is not that we do not want to discuss the issues that are being addressed – on the contrary. However, the role of doctors in the provision of social security benefits is the theme of the Committee on Occupational Pensions, which is to present its work in May 2007, i.e. in less than two months’ time. We therefore believe that it is natural to wait for what they come with. The opposition comes with criticism of this in its comments and calls it pushing the question into the future. It's not. I would rather say that it is hasty to draw conclusions now below two months before the sample comes with its things. Having said that, I think it is right that the general practitioner has a central role in the provision of social security benefits, and perhaps in particular in assessing disability pensions. It's the doctor who knows the patient best. The OECD, for its part, has pointed out that the dominant role of the general practitioner in the award of disability benefits can be a problem and that in many other countries, independent doctors consider applications for disability benefit. However, when SINTEF Health evaluated the attempt of the social security system in 2005, which was also the subject of the case-rapporteur, to have independent doctors assess applications for disability, it was found that general practitioners and independent doctors had similar assessments. It is then time to ask the question whether it is wise to use additional medical resources, when there is actually no change in the disability assessment itself. The other thing they came up with in the evaluation was that it should be better to clarify medical conditions earlier in the social welfare process. The last one is close to the debate we had on St.meld. No 9 for 2006–2007, where it is just stated that people should be cleared up and followed up early, including in the medical field. In addition, I would like to mention what Stortinget has previously decided in relation to the follow-up of the sick, in the treatment of Ot.prp. No 6 for 2006-2007. In fact, it was decided that follow-up plans should be drawn up as early as possible — and as crucial to reduce exclusion and disability by earlier and better interaction between the primary doctor, the employee and the workplace on organisation and follow-up. As we write in our remarks in this setting, we believe that this is perhaps a more appropriate use of medical personnel than using resources for clean control activities. We have not said that we refuse to discuss the issues raised by the opposition, but we do believe that we should wait and look at what the Committee on Pensions comes up to, and do not jump to hasty conclusions today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1086	Many months ago, when we promoted this proposal, it was based on the very worrying growth in the number of disabled people. But we said when we promoted the proposal, that we wanted to deal with it in the context of the big message. Of course, there was a expectation that the proposal would be taken in real terms in this context, not only be put at an end indefinitely. Had it been as simple as the representative Eva Kristin Hansen says, it's about us going to deal with this in two months, it would have been to live with. But as I've been to today, what happens in two months' time is that there's a NOU coming up with proposals to be consulted. Then a big message will be written, coming in the spring of 2008, and then the concrete proposals will be delivered, which will best be presented to the Stortinget in 2009. So that's not two months from now. It's at least two years from now! That's what makes the big difference here. We want to do what we can now, to get started with changes that in the long term might have an effect. We have a serious challenge in terms of the development of the number of disabled people, both for the individual, for the labour market and for the sustainability of the welfare system. For the individual, an unearned pension means being excluded. Many people want most of everything to continue in the labour market, but do not have the opportunity to do so. We believe that disability pension should only be triggered once everything else has been tried. Furthermore, there is a great need for labour, and the lack of labour inhibits the creation of value added and also contributes to our getting a higher interest rate than we otherwise had. With regard to the sustainability of the welfare system, fewer and fewer workers are now behind every person living in some form of social security benefit. This is serious. Everyone deserves a new chance. People who fall outside shall meet with medical and functional assessment, measures and follow-up. The proposal of the Right is intended to give users and people who fall outside a quality assessment in order to be able to follow them up in the best possible way. This should be a goal it was possible to achieve in what is called the world's richest country. An overall opposition is asked by the Government to provide alternative models for assessing functionality and medical conditions in emergency situations. We feel that the red-greens do not disagree with the substance, but at the pace, and that they will await an investigation, get a big message, if the measures will only take effect from approx. 2010, which I pointed to initially. This is too passive in view of the very serious challenge posed by the growth in the number of disabled people, both for sustainability and the labour market. This is too passive for all those who are pushed out of work without having the follow-up they deserve. Nor is it the case, in our opinion, that there is a contradiction between making changes now and implementing a major reform in 2009 or 2010, on the contrary. This will provide an even better basis of experience to assess different solutions for those at risk of falling out of work. It deserves these people, and it is necessary for the further development of the welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1097	I believe there is a great deal of agreement on the purpose, namely that no one should be pushed out of the labour market involuntarily and end up on social security. However, there is a discussion about the proposal that has been put forward today, the right instrument is that there is a kind of strengthening of the gatekeeper function and assessments related to the purely medical aspects that are the most important steps to take to prevent multiple ports from becoming disqualified. Thus, one is probably far more restrained in SV than in the Right by believing in such instruments, such as that the performance is too high and the port too wide. The problem here is that there is no follow-up in time, that assessments of medical conditions, but also of some social conditions, are not done in time and well enough, and that the assessments made in the workplace are not good enough either. Then it's not just the medical function that's important, but there's other health professionals that might be even more relevant, that should come in, for example. physiotherapists and ergot therapists, i.e. people who know more about how to work with their injuries and injuries in a work situation. They have to be involved in the assessment of working capacity, because that's what we're talking about right now, that you have to have a work capacity assessment. But it's also important not to be naive, because if you can maybe find a little residual ability, it's not sure that we have a working life that says: Welcome to us, we're willing to accept you. That's why the government comes with, among other things. the possibility of a wage subsidy, which makes it easier to do so. This work performance assessment must be slightly more than a medical assessment of health. It has to be an assessment of opportunities, interests and experiences, so that people can be built up, perhaps in spite of medical pangs that they have, but where one grasps what we talked a lot about in the previous case, namely the sea urchin, the marine image and the threat that one is worth something. Maybe that's the most important thing, because if you have it, you can stand through the throw of life both in terms of health and other things. Some of what I think is being talked little about, but as the representative Eva Kristin Hansen was in there, is that such a double-checking of uninvited applications, which I believe the Right and the opposition are making use of now, requires large medical resources that I cannot see that this country has. If we had, should we use them for this, or should we instead use them to give the people we know today queue to get medical treatment, the treatment they need? From the SV side, I think we can say very clearly that yes, we will. We believe that the instruments we are now proposing in labour market policy will work. It is a much more important approach than saying that we should double with several sets of doctors, where one doctor should check the other, especially when we look at the SINTEF report that concluded that the problem was not that the final assessment was wrong, but that one did not receive health care in time. Then it's important to housekeepers also with the health personnel resources we have, in such a way that people actually get health care. That must be our main focus. In the previous debate, we talked a lot about that there might be a lot of people who get dissatisfaction, who have a working capacity that they like to use, and that we want to help people with it. But at the same time, it is also clear that there are people who don't get bad luck when they want it. There are many stories from young people who tell us that they are being offered disability relief – as the first thing they meet when they arrive at NAV. But there are also many people who dance around this system for years, from performance to performance, to social assistance and to new benefits. Everyone knows that these people would have a disability. That's why it becomes very important that we do this sort of thing right in the future, so that the resources can be used optimally in relation to those who are going to work, and have opportunities to do so, but people who are ill will be allowed to have peace and peace, have a performance, and not be put on a bad conscience because they have been unhappy in their lives and perhaps have a disease that makes it impossible to stand in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1110	An overall political Norway is concerned about the increase in the number of disabled people. In particular, it is alarming that the proportion of unemployed men under 30 years of age and the proportion of women between 30 and 40 years of age increase relatively much. For many, disability is a poor option that involves isolation and a lack of participation in society. It is therefore very important that we establish the welfare system so that everyone who has the opportunity to participate in the labour market can participate. Work on including more people in the labour market is more important than ever. That's important because we want an inclusive society with space for everyone. It is important because we want individuals to be given the opportunity to contribute their unique qualities, and it is important because society needs more caring hands and wise heads. We discussed St.meld earlier today. No 9 for 2006-2007, and the main focus has been on how we can get more people to work through work-oriented measures. The qualification and motivation of the individual who is currently out of work is very important if we are to succeed. However, it is also essential that the medical assessments carried out prior to the examination of an application for disability benefit are as thorough and objective as possible. Despite high resource use and good labour market measures, the OECD has noted that Norway has relatively weak results to point to. It is largely due to the fact that measures are often taken too late. For example, it's going on average. more than two and a half years from disease to re-introduction. NAV figures show that only 1.5 pst. of those who are currently receiving temporary disability benefits have activity offers. This is too bad. It is important that the Council of State, together with the management of the NAV, ensure that knowledge of how to get people back to work if action is taken quickly becomes more important in the day-to-day work of the agency. We in the Christian People's Party agree with the Right that there is a need to investigate alternative models for assessing the applicant's ability to function and medical conditions in mischief. The growth in the number of disabled persons is such that it must be addressed from different angles of incidence. We need to have more thoughts in our head at once, both working for more disabled people to come back to work, and fewer references to a system of inaction. In the Christian People's Party, we have not concluded which model is the best one to assess the job opportunities of those who are applying for disability, but much can be said to suggest that such an assessment should be made by health professionals who have a somewhat more distant relationship with the patient than its permanent staff. I don't think this will necessarily lead to an increase in the use of medical resources, but that resources are used in a way that serves both individuals and society better. The disability pension committee has an important task and its investigation will be studied with great interest. I hope that the sample will come up with proposals that can reverse the negative trend in the number of disabled people. It will be important to have a thorough discussion both of whether the current guidelines on the requirements to be made for medical documentation are good enough and whether the professional testing of requirements is of sufficient quality. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to cross-political cooperation on the future disability pension scheme. I also refer to the vote and the proposals that have been proposed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1131	I think the majority's vote on the resolution is the wisest one now. It will be unnecessary and unfortunate to bring forward a case for the Storting on alternative models for assessing the functioning of emergency situations and the use of advisory doctors before we have received the recommendation of the Committee on Pensions, especially since the results of the trials carried out using independent doctors to assess applications have not provided answers that would indicate that the results would be different from the current system. We all agree that the increase in the number of disabled people is worrying. So the question is whether this is because ‘smart’ doctors are ‘helping’ their clients out of work, as proposers can be understood to mean, or whether it is working life that is not flexible enough to capture changes in employees’ working conditions. I think there's as much reason to pay attention to working life's ability to absorb people with altered or impaired working ability as to focus on misdiagnosis by doctors. But both parts are important to have the search light against. From this I am pleased with the changes we have made to the IA agreement. More systematic follow-up of sick workers and greater involvement of employers in the assessments made is one-sided positive. It is important that employees feel that expectations and obligations are directed towards all parties, i.e. the employee, the employer and society in total. This is what can help us to get changes and more back to work earlier. I agree with the members of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left when they say that this is a question of the will of society to give people who fall outside a new chance in the world of work. We agree on that. Then I'm very much in doubt about the employees we're talking about, feeling that these parties are living up to their statements when they unilaterally point to the danger that the treating doctor is ‘too close’ to the patient to be able to make a neutral assessment. I am not opposed to a second opinion from an advisory doctor in social security matters on a principle basis, but I would like to weigh the benefits against the resource use of a disability resource. Moreover, this does not have to be the instrument to which we refer in order to get more people back to work rather than to social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1147	The proposers point out that developments are very worrying and require testing of new instruments to stop the long-term growth in the number of unskilled. It also points further to the crucial role of doctors, which I agree with. I would also like to say that conversion along with other measures, such as: time-limited non-entry dilution will result in a decrease in the growth of the number of persons who are unfit for work. I would also like to point out that one is positive about what has happened earlier today in connection with St.meld. No 9, that one proposes to include those who are currently receiving temporary unpaid pay into a new temporary social security allowance together with today’s rehabilitation and rehabilitation schemes, in view of the fact that there can be a large simplification gain in that for users in the long term. I believe that it is necessary and desirable to review alternative models for the assessment of disability and medical conditions in the treatment of applications for disability benefits, including the use of advisory doctors and medical specialists. We want it to be not primarily a matter of resources, but of society's willingness to give people who fall outside, a new opportunity in the world of work. It is important that individuals receive the follow-up and independent assessment that they should receive, when the question is whether this person can participate with his or her resources in working life or not. I would also like to point out to the representative Andersen earlier in this debate that she was concerned that someone was going to use medical resources on this, and whether it was a right to use the resources in this way, that I believe this is also about the dignity of those who are going between these constraints, and that one must be willing to give them a clarifying treatment in order to move on. I don't think it necessarily leads to any more use of medical services. From this point of view, the Left minority proposal of the Progress Party supports the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1168	The right review tone of today's debate has been that the government is too impulsive. It's too long. We're too passive. I have to say, I think it's quite funny to hear that it's just the right representatives promoting as the main criticism. It is repeated in this case. If it was the case that the major problem in Norway related to the growth in the number of miscarriages was the lack of doctors who made an assessment, and if the big problem is that it is now too late, you can wonder why the Right never made this change when they themselves put in government and had the opportunity to manage the proposals that came from the government. The highlight of the debate was when Per-Kristian Foss called for nothing to be done with the curtailment rules for those who wanted to work between 67 and 70 years of age, because according to Foss, it was only a proposal for a budgetary decision. If there is anyone who has had the opportunity to make such proposals for budgetary decisions, it must be the representative of Per-Christian Foss, and it may not be without reason that he is able to be Minister of Finance for four years without being half-near such a proposal. That doesn't make a very big impression on me, I have to say. But in one area, the previous government did something. In fact, they chose to appoint a public body to review the disability benefit, because there was a large increase in the number of disabled persons and the disability benefit was affected by the pension reform. So the solution as they sat in the government offices was to appoint this public body, which I took over when I joined the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. Now the sample will present its report in a few months. We know that among the issues they concern are, for example: the role of the doctor in relation to disability. Then it would have looked as if we – just before we get that report from someone who has gone into this issue thoroughly – would have said that it would not be read until we begin to investigate alternative models. No, we don't have time to wait for that, after we've been waiting for two years for the report from the sample that the Right Self participated in appointing when they were in the government position. My approach to this would be that I would like to read the report. Once we've got this selection – and I think the Right contributed to the fact that there are many wise people sitting in it – I want to read what they've come up with. And then we'll see if their analysis shows that the reason for the growth in the number of people who worked out is lack of doctors who make assessments. So far, no evaluation reports in Norway show that this is the main challenge. There are many challenges, but few refer to them. If it is the case that the analysis from the Pensions Committee shows that the major problem in terms of the growth of the number of people who are ill is the lack of an additional doctor to go through the matter, I can promise that we do not have to wait years to propose to do anything about it. After reading the analysis and, if necessary, being impressed with it, we can promote that type of proposal without waiting for a hearing and for a big message. But let's first read what's in that sample report. I also want to say that it is important to remember that one of the most critical things we are facing in this context is that we are getting late, and there are many who have pointed out in the debate. That is why we are now taking a major, important step in the disease reporting period by instructing IA companies to have a dialogue meeting after six weeks, where the doctor will be involved, and that there will be a dialogue meeting after six months, organised by NAV, where the doctor will be involved. There will be 60 000 to 70 000 meetings where the doctor will be involved earlier to prevent a case from ending with disability. As I am analysing this situation in advance of the report of the Committee on Occupational Pensions, we are now making good sense to let the doctors take the important role that the dialogue meeting will represent. It is a huge extra task for both NAV and the medical profession in Norway. Then we're going to read the report from the Indemnity Committee, and then we'll see if there's a basis for immediate action in relation to what this Document No. The 8th proposal is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1183	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2306]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1199	Since the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs gave its opinion, information has been obtained from a report by Norske Veritas. Veritas has commissioned Entra Eiendom AS to carry out a review of transactions relating to the sale of Cort Adels Gate 33 and the sale and repurchase of Fritzner Gate 12. In additional information received by the Riksrevision on 19 March, i.e. Yesterday, it says that the Riksrevision has not been given access to all relevant documents, which the Riksrevision writes has led to the Riksrevision being misinformed in some areas. The new information creates uncertainty as to what has happened in connection with transactions relating to Cort Adele's Gate 33 and Fritzner's Gate 12. That is why, in my view, it is best for the Committee to consider the new information and how the matter should be dealt with further. I therefore allow myself, on behalf of the Committee, to request that the suspension be returned to the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1208	No objections have been raised to the request of the rapporteur, and the suspension is proposed to be sent back to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Grand Duchy. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1222	As can be seen from the situation, 9 call-up decisions were taken between 2005 and 2006, while 43 were taken between 2004 and 2005. There might be a reason to believe that the next St.Mend. No 4 is going to be pretty thin, because we're in the situation that we have a plural government, and can't wait for too many appeal decisions where the government is asked to follow up. But when that is said, the committee will also be pleased with the message as it is now. After some calls from the Committee on a transparent and clear St.Bericht. No 4 it has improved and improved. What has been said by our committee has been that one has perhaps responded to some of the appeal decisions through the budget proposals, and then it has not been drawn up again in St.meld. No 4th@item: As a result, it has not become as transparent as the Committee wishes, since it is the Committee on Constitutional Control which is to examine the follow-up to the decisions taken in relation to enlargement. As I said, it has improved, and the Committee is also satisfied with the follow-up to which the Government submits. With a few exceptions, it's actually a consensual committee position in which we say we're reasonably satisfied with the way in which this is followed up. One thing that can be warned against, is that when the government has said that it has not necessarily started working so fast, it doesn't have to be a sleep cushion, but the committee needs to be briefed as it happens. I just want to point out a comment from the committee that goes on how one would like it to follow up. It concerns the Ministry of Oil and Energy, Decision No. 440, 8 June 2005, where the Stortinget took the following decisions: ‘The Government is asking the Government to draw up a wholesale notification providing for a comprehensive review of Norwegian gas infrastructure and Norwegian gas management. Future transport solutions for Norwegian gas are addressed with a significant emphasis on social aspects.’ The ministry says that there is a little uncertainty about whether or not it should be a groceries message, and whether or not the feedback should be in a different form. The Committee shall then: ‘The Committee refers to the decision of the Storting, after which the Government has been asked to draw up a wholesale notification, which provides for a comprehensive review of Norwegian gas infrastructure and Norwegian gas management. The Committee notes that the Government intends to give feedback to the Storting, but does not decide whether or not this should be a wholesale notification.’;» This is how the Committee draws up: ‘The Committee would stress that the Government is to implement the decision of the Storting in line with the wording of the decision or, alternatively, to return to Stortinget and request a different form of feedback.’ I think it is right and important that the Committee points this out, and hopefully the Government also takes note of it. So just a few words about a point where the Progress Party is not completely satisfied with the follow-up. The other parties are well-accompanied. It applies to the demand for outage after you've been abroad and come back to Norway, and when you get your rights processed again. It is decision No. 346. The government suggests that a person will continue to work on the matter, but it will not be time-consuming when he/she will receive an answer in the Storting on how this will be done. What's surprising is that it was a co-conspirator's big deal that decided that one should get a fix on this, get a fix on time. The progress party will, is that this is about to be fixed, and we're asking the government to come back with a plan at the end of this year. I include the proposal from the Progress Party, which is included in the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1262	The representative of Lodve Solholm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1265	The notification of the cancellation of the follow-up to the request and investigation decisions has led to increased attention to how decisions taken by the Stortinget are actually followed up by the Government. The rapporteur has presented the Committee's views on this in today's vote. I want to say something about these matters. Until the government change in 2005, we saw a sharp increase in the number of request decisions. The majority were in the period 2002–03 when a total of 247 such decisions were taken. The reason was, of course, in the parliamentary situation with a minority government that did not have a «permanent follow-up», to put it this way. If this development had continued, we would have a situation that I think would have been unfortunate from the division of responsibilities on which parliamentaryism rests. It could lead to an extermination of the responsibilities between government and magnification and create a ambiguity that would make it even more demanding for voters to stay informed about who is responsible for what in political life. Therefore, it is gratifying that in the message we are now examining, we see that the number of request decisions is down to nine. I share the rapporteur's view that, hopefully, there will be even fewer in this period. The right of the Grand Duchy to take this kind of decision is, of course, indisputable. However, in addition to the ambiguity of an increasing tendency to collapse, there is also reason to warn against a tendency to take decisions whose basis is not always sufficiently established. If you look at instructions from the Government on investigations, they have been surprisingly few throughout the period – although many of the decisions could have been formulated as inquiries to ensure that the Stortinget, when the case comes back, has a satisfactory basis for making decisions. In order to maintain its power over the big lines in the long term, I think the Storting should be careful to develop a degree of big business where you take instruction decisions in too many cases. Sometimes this may be necessary, but in that case the cases should be sufficiently investigated so that the Grand Duchy can be sure that the decision taken can also be implemented. If not, it will be possible to end up in a situation where the population will lose confidence in the political system because decisions are taken in this room that can thus prove impossible to implement, simply because not all the consequences of the decision have been overlooked. Therefore, the Storting should use its initiative to put matters on the agenda by asking for investigations and then basing its final decisions on the investigations that would then have to be delivered by the Government. It may take longer, but it also suggests that you have more opportunity to make correct decisions when you take them. It is important to keep a continuous check on compliance with the Storting decision. The extent to which such decisions should be taken is another issue. I would like to say a little about the role of the expert committees in the examination of the request decisions. As we do today, the notification is submitted to the respective expert committees for opinion before the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs gives its opinion. This is an appropriate scheme. What I wish, however, was a stronger focus on the follow-up to the decisions taken in the individual areas. This applies both to the precision of the drafting of decisions and to the provision of systems by individual expert committees to enable them to monitor the effective follow-up of decisions. It is not enough to win a vote in this Chamber if the decision is not put into practice. I would like to use an example which was also referred to by the rapporteur, who could create unnecessary conflicts in the assessment of whether the Stortinge's decision has been followed up according to its wording or not. If the decision asks the government to come back to Stortinget with a separate case, the decision has not been followed up after its letter if the feedback comes in a budget proposal or an aggregate proposition. In order to avoid formalism becoming as important as politics, we might be able to make more frequent use of the form ‘in an appropriate way’ in the Grand Duchy. There is also reason to clarify that the control task does not consist of whether or not its own views have been implemented, but whether or not the Stortinget decision has been taken has been implemented in accordance with its wording. The fight for policy solutions must take place in the committees and at the main hall – not in the control committee during the examination of the St.meld. No 4th@item:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1288	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2306]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1304	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines of response following submissions of main speakers from each party group and five lines of response following submissions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1317	The matter we are dealing with today about the business in Avinor is in line with the governance that was established when Avinor AS was established under the Bondevik II administration. The company prepares an annual status report on its activities, including the main challenges, plans and strategies for the following years. Avinor is an important social actor and a comprehensive organisation. The company is responsible for 46 state airports around the country, including 25 short-haul airports and a helicopter landing site. 12 airports are operated in cooperation with the Defence. With the exception of a small number of non-governmental airports operating their own flight information service, Avinor is the sole provider of air navigation services for both civil and military aviation. Air navigation services include aerodrome control towers, three control centres and, in addition, air navigation technical equipment. The company is now fully self-financing and is satisfied with this. That's 60 pst. revenues are revenues from charges paid by airlines for the use of the services provided by Avinor. The rest of the income is commercial income, i.e.: revenues from parking, hotel activities, land rental and duty-free sales at aerodromes. First of all, it can be established that the reorganization of the Aviation Agency to the company Avinor AS and the organisation of the company work very well. There are always challenges to address in a large group, which I'm going to come back to, but the overall impression is that after some tough challenges on the cost side, Avinor is going very well. The company’s employees, together with the other actors in aviation, make every day a major and important effort to keep our long-term country together. During the last government and in the election campaign there was a heated debate about the organisation of the company. The right, like the Minister of Transport, believes that there is no immediate need for changes in Avinor's organisation. Today, the political disagreement with organisation is linked to issues about whether maybe the State can free up a little of ownership and release to regional bodies such as county councils and municipalities and other private actors on the ownership side – actors that can help to develop an even better offer to travellers, be it in the form of service, number of departures or price levels. Otherwise, it can be established that there is a broad consensus on today’s model to finance deficit-driven aerodromes using cross-financing from the major aerodromes. Right is pleased that the Government emphasises the importance of Avinor continuing its efforts to ensure the most cost-effective operation. This is no less important at a time when aviation is going historically well. It is important that Avinor is operated in a way that is also robust for a trend change in aviation. The Committee considers it essential for Avinor to continue its long-term commitment to improved air navigation service capacity, including air traffic controller training. This is a crucial prerequisite for efficient and safe aviation, one of the main objectives of Avinor’s operations. The parties on the non-social side are concerned in the setting that Avinor is working to get more regular services to Norway. This work needs to be continued and strengthened primarily in the interests of the tourism industry, but it is also important to ensure a good route offer, and it can strengthen the Avinor economy. In the setting, we also point to the need for the smaller non-state airports to cover, and how they generate traffic to the larger state airports. The right and non-socialist parties consider that it is only fair and reasonable for the State to contribute funds to the safety infrastructure and preparedness of these aerodromes and have proposed the development of a new standard in relation to enhanced safety standards. The airports of Stord, Lista, Notodden and Skien have applied for operating aid and investment aid. We believe that these applications should be met by including these airports in the cross-subsidisation between Avinor airports. Unfortunately, we note that the government parties reject this, and that the government will not look further on the question, but will continue to keep it outside. I hope the Council of State will reconsider the matter, and that she will come into this in her article. Despite the agreement on State ownership of Avinor AS and the cross-financing model, there may, in the Right’s view, be grounds for considering whether the design, financing, construction, maintenance and operation of terminals and infrastructure can be more competitive. In this context, it may be natural to consider new terminals such as: OPS project. Avinor will face major challenges in the future with the follow-up of new national regulations on large airports and noise regulations for Oslo Airport Gardermoen. The arrangement of Avinor’s charges will be affected by EU legislation and safety costs at aerodromes. Air traffic protection and the upgrading and development of infrastructure will increase significantly. Traffic growth also means increased income. It is therefore gratifying that user financing and commercial revenues are still expected to keep Avinor self-financing. Despite the company's success, the Right believes that it may be reasonable to consider the creation of a separate subsidiary of the Avinor business. It will help further professionalise the activity. Avinor has launched a number of aviation safety-related projects to lead the company in areas where Norway has special challenges. This applies, inter alia, to: the upgrading of regional airports and the winter operations of airports. This is very positive. In this context, I will also mention exciting developments in friction measurement using devices installed in the aeroplane. Air traffic control has been contacted on this innovation, and we are very excited about the follow-up and the outcome. In addition to the investments related to security, Avinor shall invest large amounts at airports in the coming years. Avinor currently has liquidity reserves of SEK 2.3 billion and a long-term interest-bearing debt of DKK 7 billion, mainly linked to a loan from the State to Oslo Airport AS. Due to large investments in the coming years, Avinor may need to raise loans in the private market. Avinor sees a loan demand of up to NOK 2 billion. The Committee has noted that the company will be involved in local and national planning processes to ensure that conditions are facilitated for the necessary expansion, including: in the case of land banding for a third runway at Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Otherwise, the Right and the Committee majority have taken note of the recent report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. The report identifies climate change that requires a much more offensive environmental policy. The transport sector is a major energy consumer and a large emission source. Here, air traffic is no exception, rather the opposite. The majority will therefore stress that for Norway’s ability to take responsibility for its own reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, good coordination is important and that all carriers are seen in the context. Avinor’s sectoral plan for the period up to 2040, presented last autumn, contains investment proposals of nearly DKK 55 billion, but has, for example: not take into account the possibility for Norway to adopt the development of the high-speed rail system. Realising such a development will have consequences and pose challenges for domestic air traffic, especially in South Norway. However, in this context, Avinor shall be commended for describing, as the only transport state or company, a future development in two alternative scenarios. Finally, it is positive if, in cooperation with the airlines, Avinor is able to coordinate good information to users on the general passenger rights granted to passengers, irrespective of the carrier. Then I'll bring up the suggestions that the right hand side is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1359	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1362	The message we are now addressing will provide information on the main challenges, plans and strategies for Avinor in the next few years, and it will do well to assess how the Ministry of Transport assesses them. The notification shall form the basis for the ownership management of the company. I want to commend the current management of Avinor. There is calmness in the company, and everything suggests that the company can now concentrate on the overall task of facilitating safe, environmentally friendly and efficient aviation in all parts of the country. I see it as very important that Avinor continues its long-term commitment to improved capacity in air navigation services, including air traffic controller training. The entire Committee welcomes the fact that several tariff reductions have been achieved and that the 90 pst. discount in the take-off fee for foreign flights at six selected aerodromes has been maintained. This has an important regional policy role. Avinor is self-financing. The purchase of airport services by the State has not been necessary. I note that Avinor is faced with major, challenging tasks, including: with the development and upgrading of aerodromes, the manning of air navigation services and the implementation of a new legislation, national and EU. It is assumed that responsibility for the air navigation activities of the company must be State-owned. There is currently no need to change the main features of today's organisation of Avinor. It is important that Avinor works to provide enough air traffic controllers, both in the short and long term, in order to ensure satisfactory punctuality in Norwegian aviation. For Oslo Airport Gardermoen, the objective is that the collective share of the accommodation service should be at least 50 pst. The collective share is on this target today. All, with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, note that the notification does not propose any changes in Avinor’s societal duties. This will certainly be prepared by the Progress Party itself. I refer to the wording of the Soria Moria Declaration on the evaluation of the organisation of Avinor, with a view to ensuring the best possible care for society, in particular aviation safety. The government has carried out such an evaluation and the management and representatives of the staff of Avinor have been given the opportunity to make representations in the work. In this context, I would like to stress the importance of allowing employees to participate in such an evaluation. Avinor is facing major economic challenges in the coming years, including: in connection with the regulation on the design of large aerodromes. At the same time, Avinor is within a period of traffic growth and positive economic development. In addition to the 2.9 pst reduction. In 2005, the Ministry of Transport was able to reduce the tariffs by 4,5 pst. in 2006. In line with the Soria Moria Declaration, the cross-subsidisation scheme between business and non-profitable airports in Avinor will continue. Nevertheless, aviation is a variable industry. In addition to the investments related to security, Avinor will invest large amounts at airports in the coming years. Important projects are terminal construction at Stavanger Airport, Sola, and the baggage management system at Oslo Airport Gardermoen. Strong traffic growth may require the construction of a new terminal two at Oslo Airport Gardermoen earlier than planned. This is an investment of about DKK 2.5 billion. I have noticed with satisfaction that Avinor has a great deal of attention to the fact that the strong traffic growth will not have consequences for the number of so-called serious incidents, and that accidents are not accepted. I am pleased that regional airports will significantly improve safety and meet the fact that safety and regularity at short-haul airports will also be enhanced by phase-in of a new traffic management system. I trust that Avinor will continue to do the targeted work of facilitating a greater proportion of travel to and from the airport in the future, and that it will focus especially on the collective share to and from Gardermoen. A majority of its members refer to the fact that the issue of possible extension of Avinor’s aerodrome network has not been considered in the ownership notification. Thus, there is no basis for the Stortinget to decide on any modification of the aerodrome network now. We are committed to the best possible adaptation of Avinor’s airport structure to local and regional needs and require that this is continuously assessed by the Ministry in the context of the National Transport Plan. This is where this question belongs. Since some have raised doubts about the handling and handling of Stord Lufthamn, I would like briefly to say that Stord plays a major regional role. So it's not about going down the airport. The ownership issue is included in the national transport plan and belongs there. It is therefore important to address the issue of ownership in the context of a new national transport plan. Then one in this house must also be aware that many millions of dollars must be taken for scheduled purchases.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1398	The ownership message about Avinor looks both backwards and forward. It is important to look back over the period 2003–2005. Not only Avinor, but the entire aviation has been through a conversion period. The conversion work of all operators — including the airlines — has been assessed by the Commission, which submitted its own report in August 2005 — ‘The safety of Norwegian aviation during conversion processes’. The conclusion was that the Commission had a good deal of critical comments. A whole of 7 of 15 safety recommendations apply to Avinor. The majority has not yet been presented with its own case which follows up the important report of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs. The Progress Party proposes that it be done as soon as possible. Let me add that there are a number of open security recommendations within the Avinor system. Such recommendations shall and should be ‘closed’ in order to close matters and ensure aviation safety in an approved manner. Many open safety recommendations are not good. The Progress Party expects the Department and the Council of State to follow this relationship very closely. Keep looking back. Both air travellers and politicians have been able to record that the conversion program to Avinor – Take-off-05 – led to the failure of many aircraft. Conflicts caused delays, conflict-affected migration caused problems for travellers – the customers from whom Avinor draws his income. The punctuality of Norwegian aviation was negative for a period of time. Sometimes the problems are still noticed. We have noted that the company has received a new CEO and new Chairman. We in the Progress Party believe that it is working from management and board to ensure the necessary recruitment of air traffic controllers. The Progress Party assumes that all possibilities are used – including re-establishing cooperation with the University of North Dakota, with which Avinor has previously had a useful cooperation to train air traffic controllers. The foreground team has noted that an international consultancy firm has assessed the organisation of air safety-related tasks. The Progress Party recommends a solution whereby the air navigation service, including the flight information service, is established as a separate company outside the Avinor system. The consultants who have looked at this have among other things. Note that this seems to be a common model abroad: as different tasks such as the operation of aerodromes and air safety are completely distinguished. This message handles Avinor framework conditions. The Progress Party calls for a broader approach to aviation framework plans in general. The Progress Party continues to want a notification on aviation in Norway – as a follow-up to the Norwegian Air Navigation Plan 1998-2007, cf. St.meld. No 38 for 1996-1997. The Progress Party considers that such a notification should discuss the airport structure in Norway and include an evaluation of the cross-subsidy system. A little bit about the airport structure. The new rules of the Air Safety Authority on aerodrome design will also entail significant costs for regional aerodromes. I refer to what is stated in the message on page 74: ‘There will therefore be a risk that Avinor will upgrade aerodromes with significant economic consequences and that a future regional analysis may conclude that some of them will be shut down.’ The Party for Progress is not sure that such and other challenges are well addressed in the NTP context. It shall be recalled that some regional airports have difficult weather and flight conditions and that they operate with a derogation from the applicable regulations. The current cross-subsidisation system, where profits from large, profitable aerodromes are used to subsidise smaller, unprofitable aerodromes in the Avinor system, should be considered. The alternative is, among other things: State purchases of airport services. The potential benefits of adjusting or changing cross subsidisation are that more of the regional-based revenue for the larger aerodromes can be used for the development of the aerodrome and for the investments there. It is important to remember that Avinor is user-funded – 60–65 pst. the revenue generated by the air carriers. Then to Avinor's plan for 2006-2008. The progress batch has noticed that Avinor has started and will launch a number of projects related to further improvement of aviation safety. We will once again stress that this must have priority in the company's operations, and that efficiency and conversion must be adapted to the priorities of aviation safety. New requirements from the EU/EEA and from the Air Safety Authority related to runway safety areas, approach system, traffic management system, air traffic control system and anti-terrorism and sabotage measures will require large investments and, in some cases, increased operating costs. Although the infrastructure of aviation is mainly user-funded/commercially funded and should remain so, we would point out that the State should also contribute financially to airport operations related to aviation safety, in particular terrorist and sabotage measures. The Government considers that such funding should be provided by the Government in the revised national budget, based on full non-discrimination between State-owned and private/non-state airports. The notification refers to the competition that Oslo Airport Gardermoen meets from Sandefjord Airport Torp and subsequently also from Moss Airport Rygge. The Progress Party considers that the three mentioned airports can compete on a level playing field and without State authority or State company being able to provide restrictive leadership at the airports of Sandefjord and Moss respectively. Within existing cross-subsidies systems, the Progress Party wants to include the non-governmental airports of Stord, Lista, Notodden and Ski. In particular, we point out that the infrastructure at Stord Airport needs to be renewed in order to have continued operations approved at the airport. Here's a little room for waiting. That's going to be 28 million. kr for control tower and new fire station. The Progress Party recommends that the State contribute and that this be incorporated into the revised budget for 2007. Let me also put in here that the Progress Party, along with the Right, is not happy that Avinor establishes a tolling system to get rid of and pick up passengers at the terminal buildings at Avinor's airports. We're going against that. Finally, the dividends paid by the State company Avinor, which is financed by the users, have been dealt with in the case. The company faces major investments in runways, terminal buildings, security measures and air navigation measures. It is wrong, in the view of the Progress Party, that the State provides itself with dividends from user income – user income needed to ensure the necessary development and operation that meets the requirements of security and security measures. The Progress Party therefore proposes that no dividends be paid to the State during the period 2006-2008. For many of the country's inhabitants, a good route offer with aeroplanes is an important prerequisite for good communication in Norway. For many of the country's inhabitants, the plane is actually a good collective offer, and so it should still be. I am addressing the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals we are with others on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1437	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1440	Norway is going well. Avinor's doing great. Of course, we can't say that it only has to do with the red-green government, but we're happy that it's the fun it is in Avinor, glad that the new lease works well, and that the new lease in the board works well. Many of us in this industry have felt that there has not always been an equal amount of peace about travelling by plane, having experienced that it may have been a little strenuous sometimes to be a politician and be at airports and talk to the travelers. It's been a little more comfortable now with the new lease and the new guide. I still have some critical comments on the current situation. Security controls have been in focus lately. There are still complaints, because one feels that it goes over all the boots – not least the pilots have been busy with it – a feeling of discomfort. I think it's also a good idea to see if you need as thorough security checks as you can add, and as a user of as much resources as you do today, based on the global situation. This happened after 9/11, but even though Iraq is what it is and Norway is in Afghanistan, I think there's a basis to see if one can take it a little calmer than a do at the airports today. The Soria Moria declaration is clear when it comes to what we are going to bet on before air transport. We shall maintain today's airport structure, we shall have a good short-haul network, and we shall have a proper level of safety attached to the aerodromes. This is a good deal, as we from our side assess it. So the ambitions that Avinor has. I have a sense that one has ambitions, but the ambitions that one has need to respond to the climate challenge that the world is facing. Because it's clear that if you add up to the crop that you add up with some of the scenarios from Avinor, among other things. With 55 billion investments, one also adds to a very low climate accounting. This will result in a continuation of the growth you have in greenhouse gas emissions from air traffic. That is not in line with what we are committed to in relation to the Kyoto agreement. So there we have to do, as in fact all the game, except the Progress Party, which does not take the climate noise seriously, says, look at transport solutions other than just planes. I think Avinor's management and guidance are likely to spend a little more time on scenarios that are linked to high-speed solutions in Norway. If one looks at the EU, which some of us do not necessarily want to become members of, it is that several EU countries are investing considerable resources in reducing air traffic for the benefit of high-speed trains. In Spain, the Socialist Government will invest a thousand billion dollars in building high-speed rail – heavy amounts by 2020. The Swedes are betting a lot on high-speed trains, the French are doing it, the Italians are doing it. So there's a whole lot of thinking around Europe that's a little too little in Norway for now, but we're on our way. The government is doing this to find transport solutions that don't consume as much as air traffic and freight are doing today. It is a pleasure that more and more people are interested in this. I think Avinor should spend a little more time grabbing the interest and the demand that now comes from most people in Norway that one must reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and therefore look at scenarios that do not increase them, as a major investment in air traffic will do. Now the committee was on sight in Rogaland, and one has seen that Avinor reporting on the field. Sola Airport has the worst environmental housing facility in the country. There, Avinor now says he is interested in being involved and contributing to collective solutions linking up to the urban runway. So I'd like to have an even bigger activity on the Avinor side, so we get a very environmentally friendly accommodation service. But thank you for good results, and continue as they vote!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1461	Let me begin by stressing that the very basic starting point in this context is that Avinor's overall objective is to facilitate safe, environmentally friendly and efficient aviation throughout the country, and that safety should always be a priority. Aviation plays an important role in Norway. Domestic traffic in particular is important. Because of the great distances and the challenging topography, we depend on aviation to keep the scattered settlement that we want across the country. The Christian People's Party believes it is an important state responsibility to ensure an adequate flight offer at affordable prices in regions where flights are the only real alternatives. The Christian People's Party believes that responsibility for air navigation activities in Avinor should be State-owned. We are pleased that the comprehensive external evaluation of Avinor that has been carried out concludes that Avinor’s organisation and form of association are good and need not change. It is particularly important that it is established that aviation safety is well maintained in today’s organisational structure. Thus, there is no need to change the main features of today’s organisation of Avinor, either in terms of the organisation of services in Avinor or in terms of relations with the state. Therefore, the Christian People's Party does not go in to change any aspect of Avinor's organisation or ownership structure. We want Avinor to remain a full-time state company under the Ministry of Transport. It is an important objective to increase public transport and Avinor has a responsibility to facilitate public transport to and from airports. The Christian People's Party believes it is absolutely essential that Avinor follow up on this responsibility, so that we do not experience the collective offer weakening, and that the private car is favored. At some airports, Avinor has now introduced a accommodation charge, where buses and taxis are charged a fee to deliver passengers to terminals. The ministry has also expressed concern about the reduced collective share of journeys to and from airports. There is a concern that we fully share, and we want to give clear, strong and clear political signals that we want Avinor to work in the future to make sure that a greater proportion of the journeys to and from airports take place collectively. We have to work together to increase the proportion of collective travellers. Avinor also has a responsibility to facilitate conditions for disabled persons. All must be ensured good availability and conditions both at aerodromes and on the flight itself. Through its latest main report, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has removed any doubt that the climate change we are now seeing is man-made. The Christian People's Party believes it is important that we stop and reflect on what kind of development we actually want, instead of just recording the huge growth and facilitating it to continue. The Christian People's Party wants a sustainable development. That is why we want a climate tax to be imposed on all air travel, and that the money from this goes to climate action in poor countries. Furthermore, we want the railway network to be upgraded and upgraded to provide a real alternative to air and car transport both by people and goods, and beyond in terms of price, travel time and departure frequency. The Christian People's Party believes that the expansion of the high-speed rail system may be necessary to put in place a real alternative to air traffic. The plural represents the following wise words in the setting: ‘for Norway’s ability to take responsibility for its own reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, good coordination and coordinated efforts between different carriers such as air traffic, rail traffic, road traffic and maritime transport are important’. [[...]] The transport modes and Avinor's further work and planning in the future must contribute to the coordination and environmental perspective of the next national transport plan, so that we invest properly in the various transport sectors. A lot has been said about the non-state airports. We just want to establish that it seems fair that the state is contributing to the financing of government-enforced requirements, and that there seems to be reason to consider the inclusion of Stord Airport in the Avinor system to ensure predictability around the airport's future. I refer to a joint opposition proposal on this. Finally, the Christian People's Party will be pleased with the positive development that has been in Avinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1495	Avinor has many and important tasks, and the message does well for the challenges and goals associated with them. We in the Center Party will underline the importance of the model of co-financing airports in Norway. The possibilities of making enough money are not initially the same for the airports at Ålesund, Vardø and at Oslo, but today's system spreads revenue to everyone and thus ensures that there is a good airline structure throughout our long-distance country. So-called cross-subsidies are often misplaced by the right-hand side, perhaps based on the principle that only the strongest will survive. But for the value creation of cities and land, coastal, fjords and inland, the infrastructure is important, and for business, airports are one of the drivers of future growth. If we see the airport structure in the context of the national economy, it becomes clear that it is also important for the areas of the country where the airports go in plus, that other airports get to exist. It is in this way safe that we have a political regime today that continues the model of co-financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1501	The main aviation priorities of the left are enhanced safety, a cleaner environment and increased efficiency. The left believes that today’s organisation of the short-haul network and the main airports is an important part of the transport offer in the country. The regional airports are subsidized by surplus airports in central districts and offer an offer to the rural population where there are few alternative modes of transport. It is important for the housing, value creation and industry in the districts to continue this model. In this way, private airports in the districts face a major challenge. It is often difficult to combine profitable operations with increasingly stringent safety requirements and increased costs of safety measures. Some therefore have financial difficulties. It's not a solution to sacrifice the safety of these airports. Cross-subsidy through Avinor makes airports in the districts equipped to take on increased costs due to more stringent EU safety requirements. Therefore, there should be room for participation in the cross-subsidisation that takes place internally in Avinor when it comes to the security area, as others have pointed out here today, by private airports at Stord, Lista, Notodden and Skien. I have also noticed that the Government in its Soria Moria statement has promised to maintain today's airport structure, so it is not an express wish locally about the opposite. If the Government does not support the opposition’s proposal that private airports can also participate in the cross-subsidisation that takes place internally in Avinor, I welcome the Government’s intention to ensure that private airports continue to operate. For some airports, such as Stord Airport, the best solution could be full acquisition of Avinor. The left is concerned with diversity in all economic pathways and sectors. Variety provides a basis for improvement and provides a wide range of services that everyone can enjoy. Therefore, Left private airports wish to welcome. The left considers it positive that almost all parties in the Committee agree that Avinor must take into account the possible development of high-speed trains in Norway in its long-term sectoral plan. Left wants high-speed trains to be an environmentally friendly alternative to aeroplanes. As I understand it, the government parties and the Minister of Transport share this goal with the Left. However, in the past and in the context of the presentation of Avinor’s sectoral plan, the Minister of Transport has stated that it may be necessary to develop a third runway on the Gardermoen. It is a scheme for increased air traffic and increased greenhouse gas emissions. The left considers that a third runway is unnecessary, is unwanted by many locally and causes pressures on the environment to such an extent that a construction is irresponsible. The left will rather expand the high-speed rail where it is based, and let any increase in traffic go to Torp and Rygge. I would therefore like to end by challenging the government parties whether the development of the third runway on the Gardermoen is the current policy in the field of transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1522	In St.meld. No 15 has done well for the main challenges, strategies and plans of Avinor in the next few years. The message also briefs on developments in the company since the previous owner’s message presented by the Bondevik II government in 2004. In line with the Soria Moria statement, the message contains an evaluation of the internal organisation of Avinor and the way the company is related to the state. The evaluation has been carried out in cooperation with the rental in Avinor and representatives of the members of the company. I remember the close history of the evaluation. Avinor was struck by major conflicts and a lot of concern that went beyond the regularity of air navigation services and travellers. There was a bad relationship between leadership and leadership on one side and they added on the other. As soon as I took over as a state council, I begin to make strict demands on the board and the entire company. I also appointed a new director, who was working before the evaluation took place. The evaluation was therefore different than it could have been. The evaluation shows that the care of flight safety is satisfactory before today’s organisation and form of association. The evaluation also shows that adequate political governance can be ensured even when the business of Avinor is related to the state as a limited liability company in which the state owns all the axans. The evaluation thus does not provide a basis for changing either the parent organisation of Avinor or the form of association with the state. As promised in the Soria Moria Declaration, the Ministry of Transport will maintain today's Airport structure if there is no local desire for anything else, and will continue the scheme of joint economic activities between business-economically profitable and busiest airports. The aim of Avinor is to gradually deploy a satellite approach system at the aerodromes of the next few years. As a result of the conversion, there was a period of unrest in Avinor, especially in the air navigation service. In the message, it has been suggested that the conversion work must continue, but that the conversions must be understood with the additions and in a way that ensures stable operation. In this message, the Ministry of Transport has underlined the societal tasks of Avinor. In addition to operating the Government and Stortinge Airports that wish to maintain, the company must: providing support to the Defence, keeping the Airports open for ambulance and ambulance helicopters and facilitating disabled persons. Avinor shall also work to ensure that the transport to and from the Airports can proceed by collective means of transport. Avinor is facing economic challenges in the next few years. On the other hand, traffic is growing, and the economic development of the company is good today. On this basis, the Ministry of Transport believes that the company should be able to cope without the State purchase of airport services for the next few years. I am pleased that today we have an Avinor who provides the services in this sector in a good way. I am pleased that we have an Avinor that can now concentrate on providing people – business and private – with a good supply in aviation, and that one has a development where adding and managing companies cooperate on common goals. It was safe for the Council of State to be able to present a message on this basis, and it is important for people in this country – a long country where aviation may mean more than in most other countries we can compare with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1541	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1544	I am very pleased that the message adds that Avinor will have the opportunity to develop in a positive way in order to be equipped to meet the challenges of the future. I think it is good to read the following: ‘Important projects are terminal construction at Stavanger Airport, Sola and the baggage handling system at Oslo Airport, Gardermoen. Strong traffic growth may necessitate the construction of a new terminal two at Oslo Airport, Gardermoen.» This is going to be a little bit contradictory. I therefore want the Council of State to respond to how she views this – whether it is in line with the Government’s demand for CO2 cut, and not least with the Central Party’s demand for 30 pst. CO2 reduction in order to meet the international commitments of Norway at the time of a traffic growth, which several representatives have been on the platform here and claimed to be a major challenge for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1562	Aviation is responsible for about 2 pst. of climate emissions. There is no doubt that there is a desire from both the Center Party and the other two government parties to reduce these emissions. It shall not be caused by passengers getting worse conditions at the Airport. We shall provide efficient and good airports where travellers can experience a modern and good offer. This is to be done by allowing those travelling by air to purchase CO2 allowances. This shall be done through the introduction of new technologies, including: green landings – something that I need more time to explain what is. New types of fuel will come, new types of engines will come. This is what Avinor is working on, along with other environments on this page. In a country like Norway, aviation is important. We are to develop alternatives to aviation, but we are not to give bad deals to those travelling before aviation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1574	Stord Airport is very important for the extrovert and significant business at Stord. In particular, there are new times in the offshore/yard industry, where, for example: Aker Kværner needs a high level of mobility in the workplace. There is now a fear of what the lack of State involvement will mean for the future of the airport. Therefore, the Right has made two proposals, one on investment aid and the other on how to facilitate state acquisition and inclusion in Avinor – which I referred to in my post. So we have not received support for this in the setting. However, after the suspension was issued, and known, it has been stated in the media by central workers’ party representatives that the Government will make proposals for investment aid to Stord in revised national budgets. Can the Council of State confirm this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1581	The question of investment aid for Stord has been raised in the past. The Landevik II Government rejected an application for investment aid for Stord and operating aid for the other airports in autumn 2005. There was no then, cork government party or other, who took to dispute against this decision. In the 2007 budget, I have announced that we will have a dialogue about Stord Airport and the private airports and the investment needs that lie there. Such a dialogue is now happening. The result of this is that we get to come back to. Whether it's in the revised national budget or at other conditions, we'll now see, but at least there's such a dialogue. It has our meeting in the department, among others. Eirin Faldet – who is also a member of the Transport and Communications Committee – was involved, and that is a matter that we are working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1588	This government has the objective of maintaining the current airport structure, unless there is an explicit local desire to shut down an aerodrome. My question is: what kind of sensors does the government have in relation to what's going on about the airport structure? We are facing major investments at regional airports around us. At the same time, it's interesting to combine airports into one larger. I would particularly like to point out the situation in Helgeland, where – to be admitted – it has waved a little back and forth, and there has been some disagreement. But now this is again being lifted from the region, namely the possibility of getting to a larger, common airport, and not least this, that we have now agreed to complete the Twelve Tunnel. My question is: are we going to have to wait for the national transport plan and a new downtime before you smell what's now happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1599	Contrary to the previous government, which decided to continue its efforts to shut down the airports at both Narvik and Vardø and Farene Airport, this government has told us to stop the airports, unless one locally wants anything else. I have recently met with all the counties in the region as a leak in the planning of the next national transport plan. That meeting was the opportunity of the county councils to present their long-term visions at a superior level. Then this too was a theme. We also have dialogue with the different states. I am extremely busy and want to welcome initiatives to develop trade best in the individual region. If a regional sees that laying down one or more aerodromes gathers around one and perhaps improve everyone else in that context as an alternative, then I'm definitely open to these discussions, of course also in the area that was mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1606	I stand here with several clippings from the Romanesque Blade. I have a clip where the Minister for the Environment says she is skeptical of a third runway, a clip where the Minister for Agriculture believes that a third runway will bind important agricultural land in Rome, and one from 8 March, where a pilot with 56 years of pilot experience says that it is customs and wasted money. He refers to airports such as London Gatwick and Heathrow, which Left has also done in several respects. The Gardermo should of course be the main aerodrome, that's not what this case is about. But the uncertainty with regard to a third runway goes beyond the well-being, planning and environment of Rome. So my question is, why does the Minister for Transport keep this uncertainty alive? How much proof does she need to go out and say that we don't need a third runway on the Gardermo?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1613	The reports that lead – and there are actually several of them – that I have access to say that some time by 2030 a third runway may be needed. This government will not decide if such a runway is needed. But what's my responsibility is to look at the area that's already fenced, because there's a fenced area around the Gardermo, and it's to help the local government find out what we can free ourselves of the bounded area of nutrition development and development in the area. And then you get a hold of the area that you might need for a third runway. It would be absolutely reprehensible if I didn't take my responsibility and seventeen so that it didn't happen that some time after 2020 or by 2030, if I found that there was a need for such an area, it was built down. We've experienced that once before, on the previous main airfield. It's the government's and my responsibility to make sure it doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1622	There's a lot that's gotten better gradually, once we've got new management in place, but there's also some issues that give cause for concern. This concerns the air traffic controller situation. The strategy of the previous management was to invest in a common Scandinavian school of education, and to cut the link with the United States. In this approach, much more is required to help involve air traffic controllers from active service in Norway to train at the new common Scandinavian school. It poses problems, as well as the fact that air traffic controllers are missing at home. We all hope that we will avoid a summer season of bad regularity and delays. I would like to ask the State Council if she has an alert eye on the measures that are now being used to provide more air traffic controllers in the short and medium term. In the medium term, resumption of relations with the United States is a good measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1629	Governments have definitely a keen eye on this challenge, but those who are supposed to have and have a keen eye on it are the leaders of Avinor. I have full confidence that they will do everything possible to ensure that we are able to get the number of air traffic controllers up to a level that is satisfactory to fill all the guards to be filled in safely and safely. We've opened a new Air Leader's School, a Nordic Air Leader's School, in Malmö. It's drawing up coal. It's in full swing. An employee wants to get back air traffic controllers who have moved out for different reasons. Some people come home again after trying their friends out – it’s nice, and it’s important. In addition, of course, one looks at the possibility of recruiting from other countries and finding out more. So this is a work on several strategies, and it's the lease in Avinor that's both responsible and responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1636	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1639	I would like to make a few comments. First, to the representative of Langeland, who delivered a mandatory environmental report in relation to the strategy outlined by the company in the communication – quite ambitious. However, with a high demand for the services of the company, the main message from the government parties, including the representative Langeland, is the one that you insist on. Major investments have been made – mentioned by my colleague Mr Bård Hoksrud – and these have been blessed by the government parties. Or is it that after 2008, what's the driving period in this message, there's going to be a full stop? Is there a solid double communication with both air passengers and the company's management? That question might hang a little bit in the air, so to speak, we're talking about aviation. Then there was a comment from the representative Sahl of the Christian People's Party about getting up the collective share to the airports. The sun is mentioned by several. We were there on an inspection a week or so ago. It's low. Tolls from public passengers in taxis and buses are currently being imposed on the Avinor measure, and it is good to do so. But we want to make it more crucial than that. We want, with this proposal, to get rid of this as we see it as a udder, so we add up to some kind of toll usage for passengers who travel by taxi or bus to the air terminals. Parties concerned should be able to support the proposal of the Progressive Party and the Right. Then the representative Eirin was Fallen from the Workers' Party within Stord. Major's challenges have been heard in the committee for some time. It's becoming more and more important to stress the urgency of finding a solution. Firstly, we in the Progress Party want to get the aerodrome into the cross-subsidisation system that we currently have and still have, but we also want to help with the infrastructure challenges that this aerodrome is facing. It's about being or not being. It's about satisfying the regulations, it's about building a new floating tower, and building a new fire station. We in the Progress Party do not want to create a new state owned airport, they manage well themselves – the operation they actually manage well themselves – but it must be reasonable that the state helps to put in place a modern infrastructure so that aircraft can continue to run.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1650	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1653	It's good that there's peace and order in Avinor. If we look back a little bit, we see that there has been a turbulent time in the company. It is not that the problems are solved overnight, but I think that when you set up the new board, new administration and management, and you got a new council, you could clean up this – and not least the dialogue that has been with the employees is incredibly important. Mutual information is also important. That I think was actually the key to getting a solution to what was the problem in Avinor, and we're on the right track in the future. You have to take that with you, and you have to keep working for good dialogue. It's not always that you agree, but I think it's important to have mutual information and not least respect for each other. I think it's Alpha and Omega. Then it's like the undersigned is an industrious user of both — to say the least — large aircraft and small aircraft, on the base aerodromes and on the short-haul network, and I go through the security controls many times. I think it's actually time – and I know you want to – to assess this with the security controls, because it creates some irritation, and I understand that. It is good that there are controls, but it can go on – almost to say – hell off. So it's important to take the signals that come here. At the same time, I have to say that the employees do a good job, and they are assigned to that job, so don't blame them. Nor do I think there is any reason why Stortinget, as has been said earlier today, will decide on any change to the airport network. The working party, SV and the Centre are concerned with the best possible adaptation of the Avinor airport structure to local and regional needs. We are concerned with the greatest possible adaptation, and this must be kept under constant review, as has been said earlier today, in the context of the national transport plan. I don't think it belongs anywhere else than that. I think it is quite alarming that the Bondevik II administration, in connection with the treatment of St.meld. No 24 for 2003–04, did not propose to facilitate the state acquisition of non-state airports. No, what the bourgeois government was most concerned about was among other things. the closure of Narvik Airport, while some of the others were assessed with no good solutions on how to organise this in relation to the airport structure. At the same time, it is important to recall that in 2005, the Bondevik II Government rejected the application for investment aid at Stord Airport and operating aid to airports, among others. on Notodden, Skien and Lista. It doesn't come from the previous government, the Bondevik II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1664	It was the Progress Party's representative, Arne Sortevik, who makes it necessary to clarify an open misunderstanding. It is not that SV has given carte blanche to build for 55 billion kroner. On the contrary. What's important, and I was very clear in my article, is that we do what people most actually want, simply to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions – unlike the Progress Party, which only has a policy to increase them, and which is not on most people's lines when it comes to climate and environmental policies. It's very necessary to clarify it. It was my starting point to say that I'm very happy that Avinor at the Sola now wants to be involved and help to bet on the city track, to get rid of the stamp that the Sun has, that it's the airport that has the worst spender service in the environment. It's a very positive signal, because then an actual one takes this with greenhouse gas emissions seriously. It is important that an actual thinking in paths that reduce greenhouse gas emissions is also important for longer transport operations that currently operate on aircraft. There is no doubt, then, that what the Government is now doing in relation to the development of high-speed rails is a solution, which I also said in my article, which has a future lead and which several EU countries are now investing in. And I expect our government, too, to help get a different pace from what has been so far. In the end, I thought that the leadership, the board and the Minister of Transport, in cooperation, would make sure that we now have peace around Avinor. That's what I'm thinking. We're not likely to have such states as we had under the previous government, which all the way depended on a plural with the Progress Party, which one never knew where one had in any political matter, largely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1673	Arne Sortevik should have heard after the state council had spoken, so there is a conversation going on between the department, the business community and the municipality of Stord. Ownership is, as I said in my previous post, not a matter in this message. Ownership will need to be addressed in the context of the national transport plan. I repeat that, so that the representative Arne Sortevik can take it into consideration. I also record that the representative Sortevik and the Progress Party are not in favour of a proposal for a state acquisition, but that they very much want the state now to go in with money to save Stord. Then I repeat: Stord is an important regional airport. So it's not about going down any airports, and then I'm referring to the Soria Moria statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1682	The last post I'm going to be very positive in the name of goodwill, because that means that if we get into a situation where financial assumptions make Stord unable to move on, the state will step in with support. That's good. I noticed Tor Arne Stroem's posts, where in all his eagerness he almost took the credit for the most part by this government. It was probably also a government once earlier that did. In 1937 – well, when we got a new successor – it was a prime minister who said, "Everything is successful for this government." Now didn't Stream it, but it could seem like it was the same rhetoric he was into. So there is no lack of bragging, and you have to listen to it as you know it, because it comes from the heart. It is also a bit funny when using the Bondevik II government’s refusal to apply for support — because it is quite correct — in the last days it was put in the government offices in 2005, in support of its own positions. It becomes a little bit inconsistent for me. In this respect, with the State acquisition of Stord, and not implemented in 2003: No, it was not. It was simply because you didn't want it from the owners. You didn't want an acquisition, because you were afraid that the airport's fate would be uncertain. At that time, the requirements that made it necessary to make a larger state contribution had not been met. So, about the national transport plan, NTP. There is then no read and passed law that you cannot raise problems related to the airport network in Norway anywhere other than in the NTP. We're dealing with Avinor's business plan, where we're also going to say something about how we evaluate things in the future. I think it's an excellent opportunity to point out where we might want to either restrict or extend the Avinor airport network. So I don't understand that reason, but I understand Eirin Fallet's good will, and I interpret it positively.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1695	I think it was positive to hear the answer from the Council of State to me when it came to air traffic and emissions in Norway, because the Council of State said it was a very small part, just 2 pst., that air traffic stood for. It was also interesting to hear the post of the representative for Langeland. I wonder if they're all on the same planet, at least when it comes to describing the reality of what the Council of State thinks are the challenges for air traffic, and what Langeland thinks is the challenges for air traffic. I think what the Council of State said was very positive, and the Progress Party is obviously positive to both green take-offs and green landings, which are measures that can help reduce emissions. There's no one who's negative about it. But on me, it could seem that the government parties are on a slightly different section of the track when it comes to the discussion of how much emissions the planes stand for. One thing I think was a little more serious, was that the Council of State was very little about aviation safety. We know that there's an area where there's a lot of focus right now, and it's important that it gets a lot of focus on. According to the Havari Commission, which previously presented its report, there are still a number of non-closed safety deficiencies and deviations. It could be interesting if the Council of State could say something more about progress towards closing some of the security challenges we face. I also think it is important to focus on the problem that we can experience in the summer, that we have trouble ending the vacation for the air traffic controllers. There is no doubt that the Council of State, as the owner of the company, has the top responsibility to ensure that it solves the summer challenge. It could also be interesting if the Council of State would say something about how to solve that challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1706	The representative Hoksrud was reassured by the Council of State, but I am not reassured by hearing the representatives of the Progress Party in this Chamber when they talk about climate. I think it is significant when the representative Sortevik refers to a very good environmental contribution from the representative Langeland as a «obligatory environmental concern». It says something about what kind of thinking the Progress Party has done around the environment. The environment and climate are really major challenges in our time. It is not for good reason that the UN has set down a large climate panel of researchers, among the world's foremost, and that they have again come to the conclusion that this is a huge challenge. I think it's too good to, when someone mentions these challenges, to call it a 'compulsory environmental concern'. So it might be right that air traffic only accounts for 2 pst. of the CO2 emissions. However, if you calculate how much CO2 each person is responsible for when they fly, it is significantly higher than if they drive a train, car or bus. I would like the Progress Party to be able to take that challenge more seriously. And if the Progress Party wants to talk about double communication, then I think it's double communication to say that on the one hand, more airports are still to be included in state support schemes, while on the other hand, Avinor's revenues are to be reduced, among other things. by allowing others to enter as owners and thereby participate in the dividend in the sale of services. So while the Progress Party on the one hand is going to reduce the funding base for Avinor, on the other hand they are going to increase the expenditure. I also think it is quite interesting to hear that the Progress Party is in charge of a state purchase scheme in the field of airport services and air services. Well, we've seen what the Progress Party thinks about state purchasing arrangements in other contexts. It is proposed, for example: in every budget when coming to the NSB, that government purchasing arrangements should be removed. So I believe that the Progress Party has no credibility regarding the use of that instrument. My appeal in any case may be here in the end that I think we can have a good debate on how to drive Avinor forward, but we cannot have a debate on Avinor and a debate on air traffic without also discussing the climate, and then it becomes absolutely ridiculous to try to harmless that debate instead of taking it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1724	Arne Sortevik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1727	It is difficult in one minute to sort out the confusion that the representative of Wickholm has, so I think I won't. But I'm going to try to give an answer to the representative Fall in terms of Great. The Progress Party will not create a new State Aerodrome. But as long as we have the cross-subsidy system, we find it right to give them access to that system, in line with the Great and other private or semi-public airports actually applied for multiple times. It's for operation. However, they mainly manage themselves. What's special here is that we have less and less time left to prevent the aerodrome actually having to shut down, because there are requirements and regulations that need to be satisfied to keep the aerodrome open. Like the representative Øyvind Halleraker, I get to choose to believe the best, and still hope that this can be solved. The Progress Party believes that a financial contribution from the State should be possible in order to re-establish a floating tower and a new fire station.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1736	I notice that the non-state airports, including Stord, have got a disproportionately large part of the debate, considering that they're not part of Avinor's system, and that's not so per. Today, there is no state responsibility, nor is it covered by the Soria Moria Declaration, where the State and Government have their responsibilities clarified. I register the debate, and I register the great interest of Stord. I have to say, I wonder, when there is no more than a year and a half since this debate was up, and one was aware that Stord was not going to get any investment funds. The order was issued in 2005. There's nothing new since the Bondevik II government refused to help Stord. What is new is that we now have a government that actually listens to local initiatives, that we now have a government that has said in the 2007 budget that we are entering into a dialogue and assessing the challenges that non-state airports face in relation to the obligations they have received. I'm on it. And then we're not going to talk more about the snow falling last year, just saying that there's a certain difference between position and opposition, and that there are some parties that might try to stick to the same thing, whether it's in one place or the other. I don't think I said that there was a small part of greenhouse gas emissions coming from aviation. I mean I found that there was 2 pst. Insulated is 2 pst. not so much when we know how much of the collected traffic is. It's the car that's the big challenge when it comes to greenhouse gas. But what's special about aviation exhaust gases is that they're being dragged into the atmosphere, researching that the effect is actually twice as big as he is otherwise. Actually, the effect of the 2 pst is. greater than the percentage to be won, in the negative sense. We're not taking this lightly. Neither does Avinor. Looking for a possible cut. When it comes to travel patterns, the increase in wealth we've been given has led to more people being able to afford to travel by plane. We have a business life that goes so it laughs, as it is called – cause the expression, President! It also leads to increased use of aviation services. We still want to have a good development both in the private, business and public sectors. But the fact that we as individuals travel, that we buy climate allowances – that we have our CO2 tax, that Norway is quite alone in having domestic aviation – and that we can cooperate internationally on a system to buy climate allowances before aviation, is at least this government council and the government are very positive. But, as I said, aviation is and will for many years be an important provision of transport in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1750	To the representative Halleraker: Self-crushing comes from the heart. I actually think it's justified this time, as it seems that much of what the government is doing now improves both the area of travel and other areas. I understand the frustration that the opposition feels when they see that solutions are being found to the problems, and that they have also added to the budget for transport. I also understand that you're trying to find ways to coin some of the problems that you're going to get pretty quickly solved, among other things. this with Stord Airport. I think it is quite amazing that the previous government was unable to solve this problem, because there is no new issue – we have had it in the past. I think you should have some ice in your stomach and get a proper and thorough treatment of this question. Where, based on the national transport plan, shall small aerodromes be? It'll be an important round, getting a basic discussion on the question. It's not just to decide something overnight, because this costs a lot of money. And if there's money, the Bondevik II government wasn't the government that spent the most money on the transport budget, as I understood it. So a little clarification to the representative Jan Sahl, who was talking about a single airport at Helgeland. There are different perceptions of such an aerodrome. That's why you're not here anymore. And it's true, as the Council of State says, if you want to get a single airport, you want regional agreement. But you have to be a little bit precise when you talk about such a common airport at Helgeland. Some people think you should have a big airport there, and others think you should have a regional airport. What would have been most desirable, if you had developed this offer, would have been getting a big airport on Helgeland. But then the problem and the questions are again: Where should it be? And is there any way to set up a major airport for Helgeland? That's what the discussion is about, and you have to find a solution to that. I agree that if that's the starting point, you have more opportunities to look at where to build an airport to get good conditions both for travelers in business and for those who want to use airplanes. It could be a good solution, but you have to go some rounds in this case. So it's important to be precise on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1767	Representatives Mr. Bård Hoksrud and Mr. Hallgeir Langeland have been very concerned about climate change today, but one of them is a representative of a government that facilitates increased air traffic, namely by wanting a third runway. Last year, Gardermoen served 17 million passengers on two runways. Heathrow served 67 million passengers on two runways. London Gatwick has one runway and serves 31 million passengers. There are 4.5 million people in this country. There are also plans for a high-speed rail system around the country and between the largest cities. I know that the figures for England and Norway cannot be fully compared, but still, with respect to reporting: I require an explanation of this. How does the Government feel about facilitating more air traffic? This is actually a value choice -- that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1774	In its last speech, the Council of State said something new to me – in particular because the representatives of the government parties in the Committee have called the opposite, also from this pulpit today. She said that the Soria Moria statement concerns the non-state airports. If that's the situation, I don't see so optimistic about the future. There was also a small fine – or invited – from the Council of State that concerned positions and positions in opposition. I took it to myself, but it's probably unjustified. I can trust the Council of State that even when the Right was in position, I worked very hard to get Stord's support. The decision taken by the previous Council of Transport States was taken after the Stortinget had split up — and just before the 2005 elections. Then, obviously, Tor-Arne was feeling a little bumped into the cuffs of what I said in my previous post. When I tried to give my post a little humorous twist, it was more because it is so that if you go back and look at the formation of Avinor AS, it wasn't exactly done with trampling from today's government parties. But what works very well today, and which everyone has given their recognition, we obviously agree. Then we'd better leave the past behind. We have found a very good solution, and it came on the initiative of Bondevik II.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1785	First of all, Halleraker: The council has no desire to insult Halleraker's representative in any way. But as the Council of State, I have to stick to what his party did when it was in government, and not to what individual representatives have stood for – because the Council of State is probably not able to have an overview of it. There is enough game you need to watch. It was because of the article from Tenden that I asked for the word, because she came with a direct question. I perceive the trend so that it is critical that the government – we do not have a position on this – will release some of the land on the Gardermoen for the development of nutrition. And then you bandage what had to be needed for any extension once in the future. The trend doesn't say anything, is if Left wants to impose restrictions on airports in Rygge and Sandefjord. It doesn't sound like this to me, because I've heard the suggestion from the Left to make a high-speed path to Sandefjord and Back so that the growth will come there – and not on the Gardermoen. But then I honestly don't understand the context. The request that private airports at Rygge and Sandefjord grow in front of the Gardermo is quite different from an ethical question whether we should delineate air traffic in this country in the future. I hope that the representative Tende can make it clear to me whether Left will impose restrictions on growth in the future on Rygge and Sandefjord.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1794	Borghild Tenden has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1797	What we have said about Torp and Rygge is that any growth at the Gardermo is to be added to the aerodrome that is already there. That's what we've been saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1802	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2307]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1818	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to 5 lines with replies from members of the Government — within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1827	The question of a stand-alone roadside inspection was raised in a Document No. 8-proposal for the fall in the Hanekleiv tunnel. An independent roadside surveillance was also mentioned in connection with NOU 2000:24, A vulnerable community. The idea of such roadside supervision is that safety requirements should be imposed by an institution independent of the operators building and operating the roads. Today, the Swedish Road Administration carries out the oversight work in its own organisation. Within rail and aviation, the Railway Surveillance Authority and the Air Safety Authority shall conduct control and safety oversight. Organisations are known to be stand-alone in relation to the Railway Agency and Avinor, and they oversee both private and public transport companies, which are responsible for the construction and operation of infrastructure. Shortly after the fall in the Hanekleiv tunnel, already on 5 January, an independent expert group was set up with mandates from both the Ministry of Transport and the Vegvesenet. The group was given a short deadline, until mid-February, to deliver the report, which would contain assessments of the work on the tunnel and the cause of the race. The group would also look at the legislation and the way road projects are organised from planning and construction to post-control. By comparison, the Ministry of Transport does not put down any expert group or investigation commission after the fall in the Oslofjord tunnel in 2003, when Torild Skogsholm of the Left was the Council of State. In St.meld. No 17 for 2002–03 on State supervision also did not enter the Bondevik II administration to set up own roadside supervision. However, when the proposers now decide to address the issue of a stand-alone roadside supervision, I will point out that this issue will be considered more closely in connection with a joint proposal in ours. I would like to refer to the attached letter from the Council of State Navarsete that problem settings related to control and supervision will be an important part of the breakdown of the Hanekleiv tunnel. The majority of the Committee on Transport and Communications, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre, will wait for the Ministry of Transport's assessments and the public hearings in connection with the processing of the joint proposal in spring before we conclude. The entire Transport and Communications Committee is concerned that those travelling along our roads are safe. In this way, we'll give tribute to the opposition for taking up this case, which is also the plural I think is important. The opposition has focused on ensuring a clear division of responsibilities and that both rail and aviation have independent oversight. If one is to set up own supervision, it is important that it has a clearly defined mandate in view of today's frequent mandate. It may be the tunnels and razed areas that would be most relevant to such a possible supervision. The pragmatic question, however, is whether such supervision to a greater extent than with the current system will actually lead to increased security. This is one of the things. a question about how we use resources and available competences. If you were to move money from operating and maintaining roads to more bureaucracy, you don't necessarily achieve the goal of more safety on the roads. And if the establishment of such supervision leads to a high level of competition for the geologists, and this in turn leads to their being left to help those who carry out the work in practice, it may have unfortunate effects. In short, there are arguments both for and against the establishment of a stand-alone roadside supervision. But, as I said, in this round we are still in favour of document No. The 8th proposal to establish a stand-alone roadside supervision is attached to the protocol. I look forward to a new and not least thorough debate on this later in the session. I assume that representatives from the opposition take up their own suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1855	As of today, the State Road Administration supervises both maintenance and expansion. The State Road Service shall ensure that rules and guidelines for both operation and maintenance are followed. These are clear supervisory tasks. I don't want to say that the state road service can't be better in this area. Example of this could be the Hanekleiv tunnel, where, according to the report, the construction work had not done well enough, and it could be the regrettable situation that got on the roads on the south of the country last month, where one couldn't keep the main roads open. This has to do with readiness, and it shows that preparedness costs. Then a question about the creation of own roadside supervision to oversee the supervisory seat can help improve the situation on the road network and in relation to the development projects. Well, supervision is one of the largest growth industries in our country, but there may be limits. Rather, it will be so that the creation of more supervision can contribute to more bureaucracy and more administration. But what we need is more money out of the way, so that we can get even better operations and maintenance and more money. Finally, the reorganisation in 2003 has led to poorer operation and maintenance. There have never been as many complaints about maintenance as now. It also confirms its own public studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1866	I stress, as the rapporteur did, that this is not the first time that we are discussing the establishment of roadside supervision or common transport supervision. The Party proposed this in the context of the treatment of the national transport plan for the period 2006-2015. But it was probably the Hanekleiv tunnel that made the debate really speed up again, and obviously also the report that was submitted after going through and reviewing the routines when it was about the Hanekleiv tunnel and the challenges we saw there. We are very pleased that there is now a proposal to establish a new supervision, and we think it is important that the supervision is initially removed from the department and becomes a stand-alone supervision. But we want all areas in the transport sector to be included. I also think it is important to point out that in both of the areas where we already have oversight, both in aviation and in rail, these inspections have absolutely done their job well, as the Progress Party sees it, and revealed shortcomings and failures in the procedures. It is therefore important to have oversight. I also think it is important to look at the fact that in Sweden there is already a supervision that works very well and is on the move as soon as things happen, and that is in place to ensure that you have good and safe roads in our neighboring country. Since the Hanekeliv tunnel maybe was what made this debate really speed up, it's interesting to see that in Sweden a large part of E6 broke out. So it happened five to six days before we crashed in the Hanekleiv tunnel, and as early as February 15, 2007, the road was in order and you could ride it again. What we are experiencing here is that the tender documents relating to the Hanekeliv tunnel and the challenges we are facing there have still not been sent out. We risk that people will still have to drive on the old E18 for a long time, or the way of death that it was called before we established the new E18. We think it's important to put in place supervision, but we should want all modes of transport to be in the same supervision, because there's a lot of work to do in the same way, and it's likely to provide both efficiency gains and cost savings, but also because you can use many of the same methods regardless of whether it's within air, rail or other areas. We think this is very good. We hope that when the government comes back, there will be a supervision, because we see it as positive that the total establishment of roadside supervision has not yet been rejected – although I think some of the representatives of the government parties have been a little more cautious. I would like to ask the Council of State to include the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting here and that are in the position, which are based on a common oversight of all modes of transport – both in air, water, rail and not least in ports, and road, as it is now. We also think it is important to look at this with the classification of the road network, so that when you have to check, it may be good to know that you can determine what the minimum standard is. Therefore, we also propose that we obtain a classification and periodic approval of the road network in Norway – such as the Hanekleiv tunnel, E18 in the Agderfylken, and not least E18 here in Oslo and Akershus, which has been closed in winter due to road-side challenges and unforeseen weather conditions. It's a little strange that it creates as big challenges as we've seen on a part of our main road network, when there's a lot of snow coming in Norway. I would then like to bring up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1883	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1886	The representative, G.G.l., refers to the State Road Administration as a supervisory body to oversee. But it's just these oversight tasks that we want to take away from the state road system. In other areas of transport, there are now independent supervisory functions. It concerns shipping, aviation, rail but also the postal and telecommunications sectors. I don't think anyone today would consider a mix of roles as the one we still have in the road sector acceptable in any of the other sectors. Nevertheless, the government wants to wait to start this work of planning the establishment of independent roadside supervision. It is no secret that the State Road Administration has set itself down negatively to set up roadside supervision by expressing that they do not see the purpose of a separate supervisory body. The Council of State, which was initially open to the idea, is now showing emergency and refers the question to future matters from the Department. It tells a little about how the Road Directorate and the Ministry of Transport operate in a little too close symbiosis and just underlines the need for independence. A modern transport establishment would simply welcome such an initiative, so that there would be no doubt about the legitimacy of the establishment at all times in all such matters. The opposition has met with representatives of both engineering, construction, professional and road safety organisations. All these largest user organisations support the proposal for independent roadside supervision, and no one understands why work is not started immediately. The government is thus fighting a road safety issue in significant contradiction with key transport and construction actors and is saying to look at it later. It is an unfortunate mix of roles that the State Road Service is currently supervising its own work. This makes it difficult for independent operators and the public to verify the safety performance. The state Road Service sits on all sides of the table within areas that require great openness and humility to the public at all times. As a society, we have major challenges in reducing the number of people injured and killed in traffic. In this important area, however, the State Road Service should be commended for its good preventive work, but road safety is also about the nature of the roads and is therefore in itself a good reason to set up independent supervision. Our neighbouring country Sweden can provide us with a basis for a reasonable mandate and serve as an example of how supervision should be established. In Sweden, the Road Inspectorate has oversight tasks related to the objectives set by the central authorities for road safety. The road inspection shall include, inter alia: analyse and monitor aspects related to the design and functioning of the road system. The report of the investigation team after the accident in the Hanekleiv tunnel shows that the crash was the result of a lack of engineering competence in the project, mixing roles, unclear division of responsibilities related to the determination of permanent tunnel securing, poor geological mapping and lack of evidence of security work carried out. A bit of a list! And then you say there's no need for supervision! A stand-alone supervisory authority will be more able to verify, ask questions about and otherwise identify deficiencies in the work carried out in such projects. Independent roadside supervision will help prevent such adverse events in the future and thus enhance road safety. The innovation with OPS companies and projects within Norwegian road construction, where a non-governmental company is responsible for both design, construction and maintenance over many years, also implies the establishment of a stand-alone supervisory body, for errors arise when the State Road Service, which is itself an operator, is to control the OPS companies. Independent supervision will play an important role in creating confidence in competitiveness and quality standardisation in the construction industry, both as regards the construction process, operation and maintenance. There are so many good reasons why the inaction of an otherwise reasonably offensive state council in this matter is incomprehensible. I will end by addressing the proposal where the Right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1912	The representative of Øyvind Halleraker has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1915	I only notice that the previous opposition party has got the wisdom once again after they have left the government, and that it is now very urgent to get a roadside surveillance that they themselves never intended to create. And then I find that this government is taking the proposers seriously and saying that they should come back to the matter. The case spokesperson said they should have a hearing on this. So they want to give the proposal a serious debate, a proposal by the previous government's representatives. It seemed to me to be a very factual and good way of dealing with the opposition. And then we're going to hope that we can avoid getting these parts in position again, so that they don't make any suggestions when they're in position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1920	Parties of the government write in the setting: ‘The majority now and for the time being believe that there is no likelihood that a stand-alone roadside surveillance will lead to increased road safety on the Norwegian road.’ This is at my discretion to turn the whole matter upside down. The Christian People's Party has chosen to support the proposal to set up a stand-alone roadside supervision precisely because of road safety. If there is any reason to believe that increased supervision can improve road safety, it should be established. The major challenge of reducing the number of injuries and fatalities in traffic is good enough reason to set up a stand-alone roadside supervision. Another argument is the principle that supervisory and supervisory tasks must be carried out independently of the parties responsible for safety and financial responsibility. Aviation, rail, postal and telecommunications regulators are stand-alone. In Sweden, a stand-alone body, the Road Inspectorate, has been set up, with supervisory tasks in relation to the objectives set by the central authorities for road safety. The road inspection shall include, inter alia: analyse and monitor aspects of the design and functioning of the road system and see whether the road safety objectives are met. However, it is nevertheless important that the State Road Administration continues its road safety work as at present. The road system has a lot of expertise and experience in road safety work. It is a competence that needs to be safeguarded and maintained. The road services shall be praised for the work done to increase road safety on Norwegian roads. With regard to the other proposals that have been made in dealing with this matter, the Christian People's Party does not support them. We believe that it should be carefully reviewed and assessed before the Government, if necessary, transfers the surveillance in the transport sector from the Ministry of Transport to another department. The construction of double structures and the dissemination of competences with such new arrangements and transfers of responsibilities may be at high risk. We are very uncertain whether this is wise. We believe that sectoral responsibility should be kept together. With regard to the proposal for joint transport supervision, we fear that a merger may be at the expense of the special competence needed in the various modes of transport. With regard to the proposal to include provisions on legal liability in the Road Traffic Act for accidents caused by road keepers, we are very sceptical about this. We fear that such a proposal signals that road standards are the main cause of road fatalities in traffic. That's not right. It identifies a number of studies and analyses. Of course, good roads are important, but the responsibility of the driver must not be forgotten. In half of the fatal accidents in 2005, speed was higher than it should have been, and in a quarter of the accidents, intoxication may have been a contributing cause. 44 pst. of those killed in the car in 2005 did not use a seat belt. Difficult driving conditions on the road, poor signage and marking, poor visibility and dangerous side terrain are serious factors that need to be addressed. But the zero vision cannot only be achieved with road repairs. It's going to be too easy. There are usually several factors involved in an accident, and it is therefore impossible to blame it on a single factor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1944	The race in the newly built Hanekleiv tunnel in Westfold and the closure of the Oslofjord tunnel three years ago are events that make clear the need for a strengthening of road network safety. In connection with the accident in the Hanekleiv tunnel, information has been obtained that contractors working in time with the tunnel were concerned about the safety of the work that was carried out at the State Road Service. This is alarming information. We have major challenges in reducing traffic damage and fatalities, and road standards have a major impact on road safety. The question of independent roadside supervision in line with what we find in other transport areas was addressed in connection with NOU 2000:24, A vulnerable society. In the opinion of the Left, road safety will ensure that safety requirements are provided by an entity independent of operators operating and building roads. Raset in the Oslofjord tunnel and now in the Hanekleiv tunnel reinforces the need for independent roadside surveillance. Today, the state road authority is carrying out road safety work in its own organisation. There are also a number of independent stakeholder organisations in Norway which make an important contribution to enhancing safety on the road network and in traffic elsewhere. However, a challenge is that the main emphasis of detailed expertise and information is in the state road system and that the organisation supervises its own work. This makes it difficult for independent operators and the public to verify the safety performance of the State Road Service. The left considers it unfortunate that the State Road Service controls itself within an area that requires great openness and humility to the public at all times. The innovation with OPS companies/projects within Norwegian road construction where a non-governmental company is responsible for projects, installations and maintenance also implies the establishment of an independent supervisory body. Roadside surveillance may make it easier for actors and individuals to alert and detect unacceptable situations. Continuity related to the follow-up to safety work can be better ensured and control and oversight tasks will be carried out independently of the security authorities. In the field of rail and aviation, the Railway Authority and the Air Safety Authority are conducting control and safety oversight, as we have heard before today. Organisations are stand-alone in relation to the Railway Agency and Avinor and supervise both private and public transport undertakings responsible for the construction and operation of infrastructure. The left would point out that there is no reason to treat the road sector significantly differently with regard to the organisation of safety work. Private individuals also account for a large proportion of transport work in road traffic. It is therefore natural that the tasks of independent roadside supervision are linked to the road infrastructure and that supervisory tasks related to vehicles and transport undertakings are continued in the current form. In the context of the establishment of a stand-alone roadside supervision, the Left considers it natural to look at the current state road safety activity and, in the light of this, to separate a stand-alone supervision. It is important that road safety is given a clear and concrete mandate for the operation, so as to avoid unnecessary red tape while ensuring road safety in the main areas. I see that the Progress Party in the vote is amazed at the fact that the Left does not support the Progress Party's proposal for a State Transport Authority. The reason is that we're afraid that such a great oversight is going to lack the point competence that we think is important for supervision. We also experience this as being supported by organisations that have engaged in this matter. I hope, however, that the Progress Party can support the proposal of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left subsidiary. Finally, I am disappointed that there was no hearing in this case, which was planned and called for. Several organisations have contacted me, and they are also disappointed with this. But I'm glad there'll be hearings later. Several organisations also support this proposal at the same time. The report on the crash in the Hanekleiv tunnel was devastating. Nevertheless, the Minister of Transport has not seized and notified that the Government will establish a stand-alone roadside supervision. I don't understand what more documentation is needed to cut through. I had received great respect, or rather, even greater respect for the Minister of Transport if she had today announced that she would introduce a stand-alone roadside supervision. With this, I take up the proposal of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to establish a stand-alone roadside supervision to strengthen road safety work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20.ana.ud976e1973	The representative Borghild Tende has taken up the proposal she referred to. The scheduled time for tomorrow’s meeting is soon to come, and the morning meeting is being cancelled. – The first speech at the evening meeting will be the State Council of Liv Signe Navarsete.
