ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e24	The representative of May Hansen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the Finnmark County, Bjørn Sturla Odden, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e40	The representative, Ms Søreide, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e43	On behalf of Gunnar Gundersen and myself, I have the honour to propose a nationwide survey of the causes and extent of loss of initial education. On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Kari Lise Holmberg, Gunnar Gundersen and myself, I am also delighted to propose strengthened teaching skills and recruitment of new teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e50	The representative, Martin Engeset, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e53	On behalf of the representatives of Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I am delighted to propose measures to reduce the take-off to disability by focusing on measures for work and lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e58	The representative, Mr Børge Brende, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e61	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Harald Victor Hove, Torbjørn Hansen, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve and myself, I would like to propose to increase local power generation in order to reduce the need for major natural interventions at high-voltage lines as well as alternative solutions with cables, sea cables in particularly vulnerable areas. On behalf of the representatives of Gunnar Gundersen, Olemic Thommessen and myself, I would like to propose a case for the preservation of the Snow Home Road on Dovrejell.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e69	The representative, Mrs Solberg, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e72	On behalf of the representatives of Elisabeth Aspaker, Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Ivar Kristiansen, Trond Helleland, Bent Höie, Olemic Thommessen and myself, I will be allowed to propose a strategy for industrial development and jobs in municipalities with a high level of protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e77	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e80	On behalf of the representatives of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Laila Davøy and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to improve the situation of pregnant women with difficulty through increased access to information, more guidance and better financial support schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e85	The representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e97	The biggest challenge of our time is to combat man-made climate emissions. Our main capital in solving the challenges is knowledge and everyone's work. People are our most important asset.Our values are to shape futures in common and solidarity with each other.We need to solve the greatest challenge of our time by thinking about climate and the environment in everything we do:We continue a green tax exchange – increasing environmental taxes and switching them into other tax reliefs.Therefore, we need to develop technology and clean gas power plants.That is why we need to invest in new, renewable energy.That is why we need to expand rail and public transport and ensure environmentally friendly shipping.That is why we need to buy climate quotas and implement climate action in other countries too.That is why we need to take care of our own nature and biodiversity.When people are our most important asset, our most important investment in people is: therefore, the health budget is so important. We need to prevent and treat disease, including by increasing our efforts to tackle mental and drug problems.That is why we focus on knowledge, in kindergartens, in school and in research.This is why, through an active labour market policy, we need to ensure that everyone who can work gets a job. We need the most possible hands and heads to solve important tasks across the country, so we need to have a local community economy that allows for good prevention work locally.That is why we need to have criminal services that get offenders out of crime.That is why we focus on culture – on experiences that challenge us and that make us grow as human beings. Community, fair distribution and solidarity are values in themselves, but also important in order to get the upswing to do something about the global challenges. That is why we are fighting poverty. Therefore, the richest in Norway will pay more taxes, while ordinary people will receive tax relief.That is why we have broken the tax policy of the right, stopped the relief and spent the large amount of money on the important welfare tasks. The 2008 state budget is the next step towards achieving the Soria Moria declaration. When we're going to solve all of the important problems, it's a good idea to have a solid economy at the bottom. In the last four years, the Norwegian economy has been in a period of very high growth. We actually have to over 30 years back in time to find an equally strong growth period. Oil revenues provide Norway with a better starting point than most other countries. Budgetary policy must provide the basis for these revenues to benefit all generations, including those living after the end of oil and gas. We need to balance the desire to solve new tasks today with the need for us to be able to deal with the commitments we have already undertaken in the future. A few years in advance, the wave of old age is becoming too full. This means a rapid increase in the cost of pensions and, eventually, in health, care and care. The oil revenues we save today make it easier to meet these costs. At the same time, we use oil money. Every $12 out of public budgets is today an oil crown. The rule of action says that the use of oil income by the country should increase somewhat as the expected real return on the State pension fund — abroad. This means that the fund will continue to grow for many years to come, so that future generations will also enjoy the oil money. It's our overall ability to work, not how much oil money we spend, that determines how many tasks we get done. Working for everyone is a goal in itself, but it is also a means of doing the jobs we prioritise. Employment is now record high, and unemployment has fallen to a very low level. From this government to summer, employment in the mainland economy has increased by around 140,000 people. There are more people than the entire population in Fredrikstad and Tromsø combined. The majority of those who have got a job are people who were once completely out of the labour market. Some years ago, it was not uncommon for older workers to feel unwanted. Now seniors have become attractive labour. This applies not least to women between 55 and 66 years of age. Now, what we have to do over time is take care of this, because we need the experience and the knowledge that the good adult workers have. Therefore, we remove the curtailment of the pension against labour income for 67-year-olds. For AFP pensioners, the same rules apply as before. While we have been in government, almost 50,000 people have gone from unemployment to work. It gives new meaning to many, helps balance differences and reduces poverty. Long-term unemployment is about half. Now we can lay the groundwork for unemployment to stay low and include vulnerable groups, even when today's high-conjuncture faces out. The Nordic welfare model ensures welfare services and a fair distribution and is transparent and flexible enough to meet the challenges of globalisation. During the current boom, the Norwegian economy has provided livelihoods to many immigrants from new and old EEA countries. Without work immigration, very many of our tasks would remain unresolved. Through the fight against social dumping, the Red-Green Government has placed great emphasis on the provision of orderly pay and working conditions to migrant workers. It is important that the good times are not undermined by higher cost growth than the competitive sector can live with over time. The government suggests that the use of petroleum revenues is increasing more slowly than expected fund return in 2008. We are proposing a budget with a structural oil-corrected deficit of NOK 76.8 billion, $5.4 billion in 2008 more than in 2007. The use of petroleum revenues is DKK 7 billion below the expected fund return. In today's cyclical situation, the budget would be too expansive if we had mechanically followed the 4-percentile for the use of oil revenues. With our draft budget, it is expected that the growth of the mainland economy will move towards a more normal level next year, while unemployment will remain around 2.5 pst. by the labour force. A more cohesive world economy gives us new opportunities to take advantage of national advantages, but at the same time makes us more vulnerable to negative events far away. Developments in international financial markets over the last few months give us a reminder of this. But we're not defenceless. The employment rate in the continental economy is good, and significantly better than it was in 2001. Financial institutions have had good results in recent years. The Norwegian economy is robust. We make good use of our working capacity, and we have a predictable framework for monetary and financial policy. During the low economic cycle a few years ago, Norway’s Bank lowered its interest rate to a record low level to speed up the economy. In the period March 2004 to June 2005, the interest rate was at a very low rate of 1 pst. The low interest rate worked. Growth in the economy rose, unemployment fell, and price rise is moving towards the inflation target. A gradual increase in the level of interest rates is the result of very good performance in the Norwegian economy. A more normal level of interest rates reduces the risk of price growth coming out of control and facilitates a normalisation in the housing market. It will also counteract strong cost growth, which could threaten the high level of employment. An abnormally low interest rate is not the best over time. The government's objectives in economic policy are low unemployment and sustainable growth. If we were to set up budgetary policy with a view to getting the lowest interest rate possible, we would have to cut with billions of dollars and reduce welfare. We cannot allow health and care, school and kindergarten services to fluctuate with the economic cycle. From the outset, the government has clearly violated the fiscal policy of the previous government. By bringing the total taxes and taxes back to the level of 2004, welfare systems and common good can be strengthened. Just for 2008 it means 13 billion dollars more in the common cash register. It contributes to a high priority for health and care, kindergarten and school, research and the environment in this budget. If you are hit by a serious illness or an accident, your life will be turned upside down. What's important when you're healthy can be trivial if your health fails. In such situations in life, we are at our most vulnerable. We need to be met with respect and care. The family, the people who are around, need encouragement and support, and we need top-quality treatment. Very many patients are grateful and impressed with health care. They have met caring and competent professionals, and they have received treatment and information that has made them confident that they have received the best offer available. Often they've been a little surprised, because the media image of the health and care sector is dominated by what doesn't work, not by all that works well. Very many people have told me how much respect they have for those who work with health and care under heavy labour pressure. I would like to extend their gratitude to all those who do the job every day for Norway to have one of the best health and care services in the world. A good health offer costs something. What doesn't work needs to be corrected. We need to expand treatment capacity, and we need to reduce waiting times. For this reason, the Government is presenting today the best health budget ever seen since the health reform. The government is really strengthening the hospitals’ economy by nearly NOK 3.9 billion. This means that more can be treated and that more can be invested in construction and equipment. The budget allows hospitals to increase patient treatment by 1.5 pst. at national level from 2007 to 2008. The roadmap for mental health will be in its last and tenth years in 2008. It proposes an increase of 940 million. kr compared to 2007. The escalation plan has meant a major boost for psychiatry in both investments and operations. There has been a common promise for several governments and for a total increase. A continued strong focus on prevention psychosocial work is essential for adults, children and young people, in order to strengthen mental health and to initiate interventions. Shorter waiting times for children and young people shall be given high priority. This budget completes the psychiatry escalation plan. The appropriations for the drug field are actually increased by 100 million. kr. It is an important focus field, and it is also a field where it is important to give priority to children and young people in the risk zone. To bet on children and young people is to bet on the future. A good kindergarten, a good primary and secondary education is an investment. Young people are researchers, teachers, nurses, and engineers of tomorrow. Not too many decades ago, the goal of full kindergarten coverage was controversial. Since the day-care centre agreement was concluded at Stortinget in 2002, about 60,000 more children have had kindergartens. The appropriations for kindergartens have more than doubled since then. Estimated in 2007 kroner cost a private kindergarten at that time about NOK 4000 a month. Today, one place costs NOK 2,330 per person. month – approximately NOK 18 000 less per month. year of one child. We've taken seven-mile steps towards full babysitting, but we're not quite in the goal. I know that there are still desperate parents who don't get room. But they're going to know that it's working on blasts to get up the last kindergartens that need to get full coverage. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government states that a maximum price of 1750 2005 kroner is to be introduced once full kindergarten coverage has been reached, and at the latest by the end of 2007. When we have to spend a little longer time getting full babysitting, we also have to spend a little longer time reaching step 2 in the max. price. The 2008 budget proposes a real increase in earmarked appropriations for kindergartens of DKK 2.7 billion. We are thus facilitating that full child care coverage can be achieved in the next year. When we freeze the maximum price of the parental payment at 2007 level, it means a real drop of NOK 100 per month. The parent’s economy is also improved by increasing the supplement in the parental allowance for the care of children from NOK 5000 to NOK 15 000 for each child in addition to the first one – a tax relief of up to DKK 2800 per child. a child per year. Many parents benefit, not only those who have kindergarten expenses, but also those who have SFO expenditure. The school shall be a place where students develop their skills and skills. Curiosity and apprentices will be stimulated, and students will have to experience the joy of succeeding. If we get short here, we lose children and young people's motivation and apprentices. We can't afford that at all. Children and young people must feel valued, and they must have something to reach for. The teachers are our most important asset managers. That's why we're betting at school: A total of five weeks for primary school from the school year 2008.Free fruit and vegetables are introduced for all schools with upper secondary education, because better nutrition provides better learning. In 2008, the system of free upper secondary education material is extended to upper secondary education (3). The government proposes to increase research and development appropriations by approximately DKK 1.2 billion. It's equivalent to a real growth of 3 pst. The draft budget includes, inter alia: 350 new scholarship positions from the autumn of 2008. In addition, the capital of the Research and Innovation Fund is increased by DKK 6 billion to NOK 66 billion. It is estimated to increase the Fund’s return in 2009 by approximately 300 million. kr. In three years this government has thus increased the appropriations for research and development as much as the previous government received during its entire period. It is an important investment for a sustainable and knowledge-based future. After many lean years, there is now optimism in the municipal sector. The government’s draft budget for 2008 represents a real growth in the total income of the municipal sector of approximately DKK 6.2 billion compared to the 2007 level of the revised national budget. The growth in free income is about DKK 1.5 billion. In addition, the strengthening of the Top Finance Facility for Resource-Required Services will release half a billion DKK of the free revenues. The 2008 proposal for a municipal scheme means that the real income growth from 2005 to 2008 can be estimated as a total at DKK 20.8 billion measured at 2008 prices. ==References== half of this is growth in free income. This is money that we need to rust up the community. For example, it's coming. to be a growing need for people in the care and care sector. Since this government took over, there has been strong growth in the number of annual works in these professions. With this budget, the target of 10,000 new annual works by 2009 is within reach. The government also proposes a new investment grant for nursing homes and nursing homes with a day-to-day care service. This is the first step in the implementation of the plans for 12000 health and care homes in the period up to 2015. This makes it easier for us to meet the needs of the elderly in the years to come. The government continues to strengthen the cultural budget and is implementing a new stage in the cultural promise. Not in any other area do we get so much activity, joy, experiences and challenges for the money. And environmentally friendly is the jam too! The government is increasing its efforts to combat crime. We increase the capacity of prisons and reduce the pay queue. We strengthen the police and expand the use of DNA in the investigation to solve more crimes. The rescue helicopter standby is extended and the bystander system will be implemented at all continental rescue helicopters bases. Nothing is as perversely distributed in Norway as wealth. Removing the property tax, as the Right and the Advance Party will do, will give the 100 richest people in Norway 7 million. kr i tax lighters per month years. That is a bad policy for distribution. It is good and fair distribution policy to increase the wealth tax for the richest and to remove it or give relief to the most people. That's why our government is doing it in 2008. We're proposing to remove the stock discount. Those with large assets will no longer receive lower taxes than those with bank deposits. In addition, we tighten the so-called 80 pst. rule that applies to them with the very largest assets. The collection of shipping companies' tax liabilities of DKK 14 billion is also an example of fair distribution policy. What we get in by increasing the wealth tax for those who essentially have income over 1 million. kr, we distribute to ordinary people. Therefore, we can increase the asset tax base from NOK 220 000 in 2007 to NOK 350 000 in 2008. For married couples, the deduction is twice as high – that is, a total of NOK 700,000. That means that 180,000 people who pay taxes on wealth today are going to get away — half of them retired. In addition, many will receive lower taxes on wealth than today. That is a very good policy of distribution. Many people are annoyed by public fees that are obvious higher than the cost of providing the service in question, for example: to have a passport issued. Our government is engaged in removing such ‘snick taxes’. The previous government increased the passport fees by NOK 500 to NOK 990 for adults and approximately NOK 250 to NOK 420 for children. In the summer we reduced the passport fee for children to NOK 270. From the new year, the pass fee for adults will be 450 kroner. It's what it costs to produce a passport when biometrical characteristics are included. This cleaning job we do, because we want people to know when they pay a fee for a service, and when they pay taxes and taxes to the community. It is a more honest tax system. We also reduce some of the fees in the Brønnøsund registers and the Merkel register for fishing vessels. In the past, we have reduced the fees for forced transactions, vehicle checks and driving licences and the charges for forced collection for people in a debt crisis. We're going to continue this clearing job. We redistribute through the tax system. But many of the poorest have so low income and taxes that tax relief has no effect. Then we have to look at other instruments. Facilitating as much work as possible with income that they can live on is combating poverty. The budget is a systematic effort in this direction. Even if unemployment falls, we keep the same level of labour market measures. It offers opportunities for people who have had problems getting into the labour market so far. Priority shall be given to measures for the disabled, long-term unemployed, young people and immigrants. At the same time, it is proposed to grant 250 million. kr to the new qualification programme for persons with significantly reduced working and income capacity, established in the autumn of 2007. We see that evolution is on the right track. Developments in the labour market have resulted in a significant reduction in the cost of daily allowances. The cost of reintroduction has also decreased, and sick leave has been somewhat reduced in recent years. These are good signs, and so we can further concentrate on the efforts of the most vulnerable groups. We now have a historic chance of mobilizing this part of the workforce. That is why we also introduce a guarantee of the provision of labour market measures to those who have been most unemployed. This is not least the case with today's waiting aid recipients, and therefore we can also terminate the waiting aid scheme. At the same time, it is important to have a sound social security system that ensures the income of persons who are outside the ordinary labour market over a shorter or longer period of time. Good social security this year is an important contribution to a fairer distribution. The Government also proposes a wide range of other measures to combat poverty, including increased appropriations for actions for children and young people affected by poverty and living conditions, measures for the most serious drug addicts and means to strengthen adults’ right to secondary education. Overall, the Government’s proposals for new poverty measures and the strengthening of existing measures in the 2008 budget increased expenditure by a total of 336 million. NOK 1,6 billion above what was the level of the Bondevik government when we took over. If we include the increased effort in terms of integration and inclusion, which is also closely linked to poverty, then the increase is in addition 600 million. NOK from when we took over after the previous government. Work on the conversion of car charges in a more environmentally friendly direction was started already in the current year’s budget. The grips we then took have worked. We see that significantly more cars with lower CO2 emissions are sold than before. However, as early as last autumn, it was warned that the fight against climate change could go beyond efforts in relation to the local environment. Many people who are struggling with asthma have taken this up as a weakness in what we introduced last year. That is why we are moving forward, as we have also announced in the last year's budget. The package of vehicles of the year contains three main instruments: We increase the diesel tax by 20 øre plus VAT per. liters. It reduces a tax differential between petrol and diesel that has no environmentally sound justification. We increase the annual fee for diesel cars without a factory-mounted particulate filter by approx. NOK 100 per year. years. The revenues we receive and so on, we use the following:We reduce the annual tax on petrol cars and diesel cars with a factory-mounted particulate filter by NOK 330 per year.We increase the wreckage for particularly polluting diesel cars from NOK 1500 to NOK 5000 for the year 2008. With this we hope that approx. 30 000 particularly polluting diesel cars are being removed from the roads. Profits from the 2007 and 2008 conversions are thus the most favourable cars both for the climate and for the local environment. Some car types will probably both have fallen in the price of purchases and at the same time become cheaper to own, while for others it will be more expensive because they have more negative environmental impacts. We also promote proposals for environmental taxes in other areas, which mean that individuals will feel that climate emissions will cost more. The CO2 tax for domestic aviation is increased by 10 øre. The base fee for heating oil is increased by 40 øre, so that the land charge comes to the level of the electricity charge. The CO2 tax on gas for heating was adopted in the 2007 budget and is expected to be implemented in 2008, depending on the ESA’s handling of the case. The Government will overfulfill Norway’s commitments under the Kyoto Agreement. In line with this, we propose to grant NOK 0.5 billion for the purchase of climate allowances in 2008, and in addition give an authorisation to purchase allowances for up to NOK 3.6 billion in addition to this. In this way, we can invest in developing countries to prevent their future economic growth from becoming as climate-damaging as we have been. Norway shall take responsibility for the development of technology and capture and storage of CO2 from gas power plants. Therefore, the budget for the treatment of gas power plants in Mongstad and Kårstø is strengthened. The government's vision is that we should be an environmentally friendly energy nation and lead in the development of environmentally friendly energy. It involves investing in energy efficiency improvement, renewable heat and renewable electricity. In 2007, we set up the Basic Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Fund with a contribution of DKK 10 billion. The fund will generate a return of 431 million. In addition, the Government proposes to grant SEK 200 million in 2008. kr for renewable energy. Including 820 million. The Enova framework – Enova is responsible for implementing this policy – will amount to almost SEK 1.5 billion. The Government intends to introduce a new support scheme for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources from 1 January 2008. We are following up the promise for rail development that the 2007 budget represented. The Government proposes to increase the commitment to environmental development cooperation with an additional climate cap of 400 million. kr. Action in the other areas of the Environmental Cooperation Action Plan is also proposed. We are stepping up the fight against international poverty. In the 2008 budget, we propose to increase development aid equivalent to 0.98 pst. of estimated GNI. That's SEK 1.5 billion more than in 2007. Climate and environment are also part of the Northern Region Initiative of the Government. In the 2008 budget, we propose increased appropriations, including: for project cooperation with Russia, research, environment, geological mapping and indigenous actions. The specific effort on the North Sea measures is increasing by nearly 200 million. kr from the 2007 balanced budget. The government significantly strengthens its work on nature protection and biodiversity. There is a strong emphasis on preserving the Norwegian natural diversity. The appropriations for the use, management and care of protected areas and open air areas total 45 million. kr. Work on the preservation of the wild species is strengthened and increased by about 18 pst. Work on the removal of environmental pollutants in soil and seabeds is of high priority and allocation is increased by about 30 pst. It is a good budget for the Ministry of the Environment. But it's just a small part of the effort for a better environment and climate. Those times are over when we could spend a few million dollars on the Ministry of the Environment's budget and say that now the battle is over. What is the challenge of our time is to bring the environment and climate into focus on all the budgets that matter. The work has not been done until it affects the Ministry of Transport's budget, the Ministry of Oil and Energy's budget, the Ministry of Agriculture's budget. I can see myself around here at my fellow state councillors – that's the job we're about to do. The Ministry of Finance has a particularly important job to do in this context. We are not in the target until we have economics and ecology close together and the means to implement it across society. The total effort for environmental appropriations in this State budget is therefore about. DKK 25 billion. It's an increase of almost 10 pst. In addition, climate quota purchases are coming. Now we're in a boom, and it's boiling in many places in the country. But it is also the case that some municipalities are struggling with relocation. Then political governance is needed to do something about it. We therefore facilitate increased value creation and development across the country and give priority to action on transport and industrial development in rural areas. We continue our efforts to realise the national transport plan, which is being fulfilled for two years by the 2006-2009 planning period. The agricultural agreement for 2008 provides for the best agricultural income increase in several decades. The allocation of specific rural and regional policies is also increasing. Increased appropriations are proposed for business development, innovation and internationalisation under the auspices of Innovation Norway. Furthermore, we propose to establish a new state investment fund with a capital of SEK 2.2 billion, of which DKK 0.5 billion is reserved for maritime business. The Fund shall invest in early growth enterprises. The Fund shall give priority to the environment, energy, travel, marine and maritime sectors, with particular emphasis on climate and environmental projects. Again, climate and environmental policy is going on. The government also launches a maritime strategy in this budget, with proposals for increased appropriations totalling 100 million. kr. With the proposal for tax exemptions in line with the scheme in many other European countries, we meet the main demands of shipping companies over many years. In line with the arguments put forward by the industry itself, we expect such a favourable tax regime to slow down the relocation of Norwegian shipping activities. It may have a significant impact on coastal activities. In return, we demand that the shipping industry settle the tax debts incurred. One third of this can be allocated to environmental measures. Here, too, we're thinking of environment. The annual payment of the tax liability is equal to 13 pst. of total industry surplus in 2006. Economics and ecology are closely linked, as I was in the middle of it. We manage much larger values than money alone. It is the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance who is responsible for measuring and monitoring sustainable development, and in the National Budget the Government presents our sustainable development strategy. It will help Norway to become a first country in this area. Since Gro Harlem Brundtland presented the UN report on sustainable development, the challenges have only increased. World society has not yet managed to achieve economic growth that brings development without simultaneously overburdening the ecological system. The strategy points to what Norway can do nationally and internationally to help reverse this. Norway shall work more towards an ambitious international climate agreement. Norway shall contribute strongly to a technology development that could reduce emissions. Norway shall contribute to the stepping up of the fight against international poverty, for it is closely linked to the fight against anthropogenic climate emissions. And we're going to take care of our own biodiversity. Our financial resources shall also be managed in a sustainable manner. Transformation from natural wealth in the North Sea into financial wealth on book provides both opportunities and challenges. Large oil revenues, good economic times and a responsible budgetary policy now make the State pension fund one of the world's largest funds. It's a commitment. The Government's objective is that the State pension fund should be the world's best managed fund — both in terms of financial returns and in terms of ethical standards. That is why we are further developing the ethical tool we have for the State pension fund. This applies both to the companies we withdraw from – we have withdrawn from two companies due to serious environmental damage – and not least to how we exercise ownership in relation to the climate, and to get companies to work towards an offensive climate agreement after this Kyoto period, is an important part of what we use when we exercise our ethical ownership. In a few years' time, we're going to look back and assess whether the priorities we're doing today were right and pointed forward. It will then be clear if we took on board the threat of climate change and came up with strategies to meet them. Then it's going to show if we let wealth and our growth benefit as much as possible, or if we split as much as possible in the shortest possible time. It will then be evident whether we have taken on board the challenges of renewing and strengthening the public sector. I believe that this budget has a perspective beyond next year, and I invite the Stortinget to join in and discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e333	The President will propose opening a comment round limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each batch group. This is in accordance with Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure. The President will then propose to derogate from Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure, so that the Minister of Finance will be given the opportunity to reply to each post from the opposition parties, and that the representatives of the opposition parties will then be given the opportunity of a reply of up to 2 minutes. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Minister of Finance, possibly the Prime Minister, be given the opportunity to comment briefly up to 3 minutes after the comment round itself. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e342	We have good times in Norway. The economic situation is very good, and the growth is high. Since 2003, the mainland economy has grown by over 4 1/2 pst. average per years. Business is going well, and unemployment has not been lower in 20 years. Good times internationally have given rise to high demand for Norwegian raw materials and a high oil price. We have to go all the way back to the 1970s to find a correspondingly strong growth period. There is no doubt that Norway would look different with a civil government. Among other things, the tax level would have been lower; in particular, the higher income groups would pay less tax. Lower tax revenues would mean less money for common well-being and greater economic differences. The government is working to make the tax system more social. The State budget therefore proposes a clear and good distribution profile, promoting environmentally friendly behaviour and reducing snuff taxes. Example of this is the conversion of the property tax, the increase of the CO2 charge and the reduction of the passport fee. Many people now experience a much simpler everyday life than they had just a few years ago. The main reason is that many more people have come to work. Having a job is the most important single factor in getting out of poverty. Being at work is also socially inclusive. Since this government took over, the number of persons employed has increased by 150,000. The number of unemployed is reduced by 48 000. The government has taken great steps to expand the welfare supply for most people. One of the most important measures has been to improve the local economy. Since we took over from the Bondevik II administration, transfers to municipalities have increased dramatically. The real income growth is DKK 20.8 billion from 2005 to 2008. Half of the amount is growth in free income. Thus, citizens can receive better health services, better care for the elderly and better public transport. Our goal is for everyone who needs it to have a children's garden space. No one should feel pressured to take involuntary leave from work because they do not have a place for the child. No parent should have to send their children to a day mother they don't know or feel secure about. The government facilitates the provision of full childcare services during 2008 and proposes to allow funds for the development of 7,700 new full-time facilities. This means that 3,900 more children will be provided with nursery facilities. Health provision has been reinforced in recent years. It has a significant financial stake in health services. For 2008, the government proposes to increase patient treatment and strengthen the hospital economy by DKK 3.9 billion. It's a historic commitment. The escalation plan for mental health will be completed with 940 million. Increases in the number of allowables in 2008. The 2015 care plan will be followed up and action on drug use will be strengthened. In order to preserve the good times, the Government will conduct a responsible economic policy. Strong growth can easily slip into an overheated economy. If we have too much oil money, we're going to get a higher interest rate than we need and an even stronger dollar rate. The government aims to find the right balance between increasing public consumption in the short term and not creating undue disquiet in the economy. So we want to put $7 billion under the rule of action. This means that we will ensure good times for our country both in the short and long term. The Right Party and the Progress Party have said that they consider going to a joint government election in 2009. However, these parties have so far been strongly disunited in economic policy. In their 2007 alternative state budget, the use of oil money costing more than DKK 20 billion was broken down. The party has clearly differing views on the extent to which increased use of oil money would harm the Norwegian economy. I expect the Right Party and the Progress Party in the work on the state budget to clarify how much money the two parties together feel it is defenceworthy to spend. The voters are entitled to know this in good time before the elections in two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e364	We have a government and a finance minister who lives in absolutely good times. Norway is going very well economically, and with the oil wealth Norway has, the government can of course avoid giving a little more to almost all groups in society. I feel that this budget also adds up to. You give something more in a number of areas, so most people have to feel that tolerably satisfied. But in some areas, at least the Progress Party lacks a very clear profile from the government that has now delivered the State budget. There are a number of areas in this society where we have major challenges, and where the Progress Party and I feel that the Government does not deliver. So, as it's added up now, you're going to have a surplus in the state economy of about 350 billion dollars in 2008. Nevertheless, it is not possible to respond to the challenges we face in terms of poverty. We know that we have approx. 200,000 minimum pensioners in Norway today, living below what the OECD has characterised as the poverty line. There is a large group of people who do not experience the wealth and the good times that the finance minister boasts of, and that she has presented in her speech today. There's a large group of people that you can actually afford to help if you want, by doing some simple grips. I want the Minister of Finance to come back to how you look at this challenge, because I cannot, with my best will, see that today's government, which next year adds up to a surplus of NOK 350 billion, can look this group in the eye and say that Norway is going well, but unfortunately we can't give you a better everyday life. Maybe more than me were watching the TVNorway news last night, where «Mimmi» had to call the Fattighuset for the first time in history and ask for help. She had not had a proper dinner in several weeks. This is an example of human beings in Norway today, and as I assume, make a strong impression not only on me, but also on the Government. Nevertheless, I feel, now that things are going well, that there is no response to these challenges. The Minister of Finance has even cancelled in many ways the promise to get rid of poverty in Norway during the current ageing period. The government says it's betting on increased patient treatment. For the operation of Norwegian hospitals next year, there has been an increase in this budget proposal of NOK 1.7 billion. It's less than what our healthcare companies report is the deficit they're going to get this year. Ergo will not increase patient treatment. We're still going to have a lot of people in Norway who are going to be in patient queues. We have a lot of hard-working people who just miss an operation to get back into productive work again, but who are going on social security and waiting for the treatment they actually require – despite the fact that in a number of private institutions in Norway there is free capacity. How has the Government intended to answer this? I think one of the major challenges next year is just how we're going to deal with this with increasing patient cows in Norwegian hospitals. We need sensible investment in Norway, for example: in road and infrastructure. That's good, sensible investment. In addition to investing in foreign companies only through the disposal of the oil fund, we could ensure that Norwegian businesses, Norwegian drivers and not least District Norway got good roads. I note that the Minister of Finance has commented on this with interest in transport to a small extent in his contribution today. We have now experienced a campaign with a lot of budget leaks, but on the road there were little leaks. At that time, the Progress Party and I thought the goodies were coming today. But they don't. We are still going to have a big lag in relation to the national transport plan and the investments to be made on the road. Investing in the way makes sense. It provides for increased value creation, it facilitates the business community that is located in District Norway and needs to transport its goods, and it is actually also a good touch of the climate challenges you have. Good roads also provide a better environment. So I miss the Government's response to how to actually follow up the National Transport Plan in addition to introducing good, sensible investments in this sector. In good times it would also have been wise, in the view of the Progress Party, to ensure the efficiency of public bureaucracy and public administration. Now we have the opportunity to cut administrative cuts, in public bureaucracy, making it easier for people most of the day to meet this ever-increasing bureaucracy, and making sure that we get a more rational and efficient government administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e381	It's not right that this state budget means that everyone gets more. We're doing a clear distribution grip on property taxes. We're sharpening it by approx. 700 million. kr for the richest, and we distribute it as relief to them in the booth. It is a clear policy of distribution. We take from the richest and distribute to ordinary people – most people. It should sound good in the ears of the Progress Party, even if they do the opposite. So it costs more to pollute. It is a clear profile in this budget that we are taking the climate problems seriously. We also dare to tell people that they have to be involved and pay more for what pollutes, in order to facilitate other areas and thus distort consumption in a more environmentally friendly way. As far as the fight against poverty is concerned, the main profile of this budget is what we are doing in relation to the labour market and those groups that have been on the side of the labour market for a long time but now have a unique opportunity to come back. That is what we do through the qualification programmes, which are designed for those who have gone on social assistance in the past, and by keeping a very high level of labour market measures, so that we can help the individual get into work and get paid. It means an increase in wealth compared to having low social assistance or low social security contributions already. But it can't apply to everyone. The representative of Leirstein is quite right about that. And it shouldn't be like this in Norway that people have to go and pick up food bags for economic reasons, whether it's at the Velferd Alliance, at the Salvation Army or elsewhere. We're going to have a social assistance system that provides grants for living that covers that kind of expenditure. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Labour and Inclusion has addressed the criticism that has come about social assistance, both in terms of living and in terms of what is expected. But I think we have one more problem in terms of poverty. It's that people feel that they don't meet with respect, and that too many people complain to go to the social office. It's a job that we have to tackle in addition to making sure people can afford food.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e394	The point of the Advance Party in this matter is that while the entire Norwegian system is experiencing a well-being and a wealth, there are some groups within this system that fall outside. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance is aware of these challenges – and I believe absolutely that the Minister of Finance is – but I feel that this budget does not respond to these challenges. It must be a problem when this government has as much money at its disposal as it actually has. I also miss not all the minimum pensioners in Norway who actually have major challenges in their everyday lives. I hope we can come back to that in subsequent debates on this state budget, because, in the opinion of the Progress Party, it is not answered. For the Progress Party, it is essential to ensure that taxes and taxes are reduced so that most people can keep more of their income and cope better in their everyday lives. The problem with this state budget is to add up to the same level of taxes and charges as in the previous year. Ergo won't most people experience that they're going to keep anything more, and it seems the Progress Party is a challenge. When Norway is rich, it should be possible to provide opportunities for further tax reductions, so that more people wanted to deliver, more people wanted to stand on. And when we have a shortage of labour, it would actually be an advantage that more felt they got to keep more if they spent more and stood on more. It might also have helped solve the pressure we have in relation to labour shortages. I noticed that there was no response to this with increased patient treatment. I suppose you should be able to come back to it on a later occasion in subsequent debates, but this is a challenge. The people in these queues waiting for treatment to return to productive work have major problems and experience it as quite unfair to go to the social security budget rather than to receive treatment, for example. by a private institution with free capacity so that they could regain dignity and return to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e403	Never has any government had so much money at its disposal. Kristin Halvorsen must be the world's luckiest finance minister, and she can distribute a lot of money and a lot of well-being. But she forgets that the values have to be created. Tomorrow’s well-being requires willingness to invest in knowledge and research and a forward-looking industrial policy. The Government is failing in this respect. There are historically good times in Norway, and there is reason to rejoice that there is good growth and low unemployment. The red-green parties took over an economy that was in good order. The government can enjoy high oil revenues, but it can also enjoy high tax revenues, such as: the dynamic tax policy of the previous government. Only from 2007 to 2008, tax revenue increases by a total of DKK 35 billion. Then it's disappointing that the government doesn't give anything back to people with normal salary incomes in the form of increased deductions. Lower taxes would have contributed to more work, and more labour needs Norway. It is good that the 67-year-olds get a job without having to cut the pension, but it is completely incomprehensible that this does not apply to the 68- and 69-year-olds. The test for the Government is whether it helps the good times to last longer, and whether the Government is able to solve the major tasks related to knowledge, the environment and the fact that a total of 700,000 people of working age are outside the labour market. It makes sense for the Government to use less than the rule of action for which it opens. But the Minister of Finance cannot help but say that she is presenting an expansive budget that will not help to dampen the pressure on interest rates and exchange rates. There has been a great deal of tension about whether the government in this budget will take on the big tasks. It is time to invest in the future – if you want to invest in knowledge and research, if you want to take steps to meet the major environmental challenges. And I have to say that the biggest disappointment in this state budget is that higher education and research again become the loser. Continue to cut off. The cuts in higher education from last year are not corrected. It is completely incomprehensible that the Government does not use the good times in Norway to invest in knowledge and research. After all, the Minister of Finance spoke of the people who are Norway’s future and of the people we must bet on. Then it is incomprehensible to continue the cutting of rest from last year. The environmental and climate challenge is the biggest challenge we face, and I am very pleased that the Minister of Finance spent so much time talking about it. However, it cannot be argued that this is an offensive environmental and climate budget in relation to the challenges facing Norway in this area. You can't say that with respect. The right has initiated a climate settlement in Stortinget. We have said that there must be a doubling of the effort on renewable energy, and there is little new in this budget in that area. The right had hoped for a greater commitment to renewable energy and a greater commitment to research on climate challenges. It's necessary for us to say that we're taking the big problems seriously. It's a privilege to have a good economy, but it's an obligation for the Government to make sure that we create values in the future as well. Then more attention needs to be paid to knowledge and research. This means that more attention must be paid to future-oriented industrial policy. I think there are many entrepreneurs particularly along our coast that are disappointed today. The economy along the coast bears a lot of the value creation in Norway. Today’s shipping tax regime is a setback for the wide offshore cluster in Norway. The government is also continuing a high NOx tax, which creates problems for the fishing industry. If we are to be able to share values in the future, we must also facilitate the creation of values.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e423	It's kind of funny actually to listen to the representative Sanner, especially when you remember what the previous government was doing in those areas where he now allows himself to criticize the Government. So in three years we have managed to achieve the same increase in research that the Bondevik II government managed to achieve in four. Then it can't be completely black. Then there must have been black death under the previous government of research. It's not like that. So that's how we get 350 new scholarship holders. There are more on two of the last three years than the Bondevik government has managed during its four-year period. Then it cannot be completely black in this area either. But I agree with Mr Sanner that we need to make sure that we have a knowledge society if we are to meet the challenges of the future. Because we're never going to be able to compete in the big world at the lowest price possible. We have to be smarter. We need to have high productivity, we need to come up with new things, we need to take the challenges of the future seriously. Then I am happy to see the Right Alternative State Budget, and of course they have to have some time to work with it. But if that's how the Right is going to add to using the State budget to get at a lower interest rate than what's now, they have to cut by billions of dollars. They haven't had the courage to do that before. I'll meet if they're going to do it now. Then we get criticism of the environment and climate budget, and I think that is also funny if you compare with what the previous government did. Now we have set up a fund for environmentally friendly energy of DKK 10 billion – we're going to increase by another 20, we've notified. It did not exist under the previous government. The NOx fee is then criticised. It was a clearing job that we did after the previous government, which did not lift a finger to realize the Gothenburg Protocol. So here it is in glass. It is not surprising to me that representatives from the Right are protesting against our proposal for shipping taxes, but I think we have come up with a very good solution for the industry, a future industry, important along the coast, while the old tax credits are being paid in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e443	If you're going to start to characterize what's funny, I'm going to say that it's pretty funny that a government that's been sitting for two years continues to owe it to the one that went off in 2005. It may be time for the government to start taking responsibility for its own policies. If the government had listened to those who create the values along our coast, yes, the message is crystal clear that what is now being added to both the NOx tax and the shipping tax is not a good contribution to value creation in District Norway. As far as education and research are concerned, the enormous challenges we face in this area have been identified for several days. Last year, Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal served a ‘sleep cutting’ for higher education and for research. It was cut at 275 million. kr in the higher education and university budgets. This budget does not contribute to correcting the cuts in higher education. This budget is not an offensive investment in research for the future. It's not a great magic to be able to distribute any of the big growth we have in Norway, but if you look at what the government really prioritizes, you can't say that higher education and research come out well in this budget. It should. Is there one thing I can promise the Minister of Finance, is that the Right is going to present a budget where we are betting on value creation, so that we get more well-being for the future, and that we are betting on knowledge, higher education and research so that we invest in the people of this country. We are also going to present a more offensive environmental budget. That requires the challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e453	I say it this year again: One promise was clearer from SV than all other promises, and it was promised the right to kindergarten for everyone and a lower maximum price. So we're going to have full coverage over the course of this year, and we're going to have to put everyone in the right place, so that they get the kindergarten space they need. In the meantime, we're freezing the nursery rate. Before Øystein Djupedal in 2002, the nursery agreement was put in place, with a cheaper price and a right to babysitting for everyone who wanted it, the price was 4000 kroner in a private nursery. Now it's for all kindergartens $2,330. This gives a family of children over NOK 18 000 more to walk with, and allows more people with poor advice to have children's gardening space and go to work. At the same time, when we give people increased deductions from childcare for the second and third children, it really pays off for people to work, and it's cheap to choose kindergarten. The proportion of children in kindergarten has increased from 63 pst. from 2002 to 87 p.m. this year. I guess there's no one here, except Siv Jensen, who thinks we could get to the amount of elderly care that we get if it hadn't been for us to get people cheaper kindergartens and kindergartens for anyone who wanted to. This is the greatest welfare promise in our ageing period, and it adds Øystein Djupedal to the range of important gender equality and welfare policies. The children’s hail is a central step towards making Norway a greener knowledge-based society — a green knowledge-based nation. This budget is a formidable budget for the environment. I want a Norway that takes the environmental challenges on the globe seriously and goes ahead to deal with the warming of the Earth, which gives us more dangerous weather, and kills tens of thousands of people around the globe because of drought, floods and hurricanes. But it's easy to lose perspective when the environment is discussed. Børge Brende, for example. tossed a government to build a polluting gas power plant. Where Børge Burnde built gas power plants as Minister for the Environment, Helen Bjørnøy and the Government come and clean. That's why we're now going to grant almost $1 billion for the cleaning of Mongstad and Kårstø and follow the progress plans to the point and the dot. No government until spring has spent money on CO2 cleaning. No government has spent so much money on the railways in the last 25 years. We're continuing the bet we started last year, and we're 50 pst. on investments in relation to the previous government. And we have to compare to show that there are actually big differences. No government has invested so much in renewable energy sources. Now comes the return of the Energy Fund, and we're filling in this state budget to help people away from power dependency, to build bioenergy, windmills and other power generation. We continue the green tax conversion, we make it cheaper to own a car and more expensive to use a car, by increasing the diesel tax as we do. We want to eliminate heating with oil fires. That's why we're making it more expensive to fire oil, so that the more environmentally friendly alternatives are competitive. It's important grips. People have asked us to show our way in relation to how to deal with the environmental challenges and the climate challenges facing the world, and then we have obligations to set up, when people demand it from us. Air traffic knows we're one of the big culprits, and that's why we're also increasing aviation fuel prices and charges there to make trains and other cheaper alternatives more competitive. We're doing a formidable job for the climate both in Norway and in the rest of the world. I want Norway to lead the fight against international poverty. That is why this year, too, we are increasing the aid budget by 0.1pst, and are getting closer and closer to the goal of using 1pst. of our income on poverty reduction and environmental action, of 400 million. kr, in other parts of the world. We're betting on fair distribution. Because while the previous government spent a lot of money on giving tax bills, which are now rational when you look at their alternative budgets, we spend the money where they're most important. We spend money to ensure that people get to work, we spend money on health, a formidable health budget, we spend money on culture, we spend money on educating the researchers of the future through a bet on fellow students, and we spend on free learning – because we are in order for welfare to be what characterizes our government, to build a green knowledge society in Norway in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e472	I guess we'll be able to admit that there'll often be a little dejà vu in a day like this. The Minister of Finance is sincerely proud of the budget that has been presented, while in the opposition we are more concerned with what is written in small print. But in sum, it can give you a balance of accounts. However, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, let me first highlight what we see as positive in the budget that the Minister of Finance has just presented. The government proposes to follow the rule of action and the assumption that in a high economic cycle, less than the expected return of 4 pst should be used. In the interests of both the competitive industry and those with high mortgages, it is really necessary to stick to the use of oil money that does not dominate the economy. At that point, we fully agree with the Government. Now there is a good use of oil money – a total of 77 billion kroner. It also says something about this government sitting in power in a very favorable time, which should also make it easier to prioritize correctly. We have a wealth development that has exceeded all forecasts, and growing wealth should also give rise to increased liabilities. In the view of the Christian People's Party, a clear commitment is to strengthen the fight against poverty, both at home and internationally. We are therefore pleased that the Government has given priority to increasing our contribution to the world's poor. We'll give the government credit for that. We are also pleased that the psychiatry plan is being followed up and fully funded for next year. We are also pleased that the reform of faith training is being followed up. We are not happy that it is at the expense of support for the local communities. We could also add a plus by the fact that the self-employed now receive birth grants under the same conditions as others. It's good family policy and it's good business policy. But also here are the same traders who have to pay the bill. At the same time, we record that the paper commission is on the ground resting, and many fathers still do not have independent retirement of leave rights. In the Christian People's Party, we insist that parents themselves know what is the best form of care for their children. That is why we want freedom of choice for the family. It involves a good childcare and cash support. When we know how strongly ideologically opposed there is in parts of the Government related to such freedom of choice for the family, we're going to have to put a little plus in the margin because there's no suggested cut in the cash support. In the case of kindergartens, on the other hand, it lights up a breach of promises against us. I will not repeat all the results of the central government in this government had against the previous government when you chose full coverage before you set the price further. However, the current state council responsible was at least in the first place. He also said that if you did not reduce the price to the maximum price step 2, you would not know what the queue actually is. Thus, full coverage is a total moving measure that the Government itself probably thinks it is the ones to define. When the maximum price step 2 is now at risk, and we see that in many cases they pay more for kindergarten than before, I have a challenge for the Government. Will the government be involved in an effort that will make it possible for them to have a cheaper nursery? That would be a good effort to combat poverty. We also want to challenge care. In the languages of the throne, you say you're satisfied with the drug reform. At the same time, we experience a strong unsocial queue in this field. More than 3,600 are now waiting for treatment. There's almost 2,000 more than last year. Climate challenges affect us all. We are prepared to cooperate with the Government to achieve forward-looking solutions, but this must involve alternative energy support schemes, so that projects do not remain in the drawer but can actually be realised. It also involves a strong commitment to public transport, not least in major cities. As the Minister of Finance says, there is a need for a tax profile that promotes environmentally friendly behaviour. We would like to cooperate with the Government on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e500	I would like to thank the representative Syversen for a nuanced statement on the 2008 state budget. It also means that we can come in and discuss important areas further. First, a little round of kindergartens. After the kindergarten agreement was launched in 2002, there is room for 60,000 more children. It's a huge boost. We know how many nursery places would be requested if we put down the next step at the maximum rate. That's about. 13,000. But we still have some in line. Then we have to take the queue we have now, at today's price before we move on. So when we're done with this, we've implemented a huge reform for kindergartens, which is incredibly important for Knowledge Norway. We know that kids learn more when they're younger, and it's an incredibly important investment in a society. I have noticed that some people feel that kindergartens are something other than investing in knowledge. It's a terrible old-fashioned thinking around kindergartens. So there's a question: is now the price and central regulation of how this happens, good enough to capture those groups that might need kindergarten the most? We would like to continue this discussion with the Christian People's Party. Then we also get a challenge with regard to drugs. It's an important area. We are now increasing efforts to combat drugs, and we are increasing treatment provision and prevention. But we have a big challenge in this area. And now that the psychiatry plan is in its final year in 2008, we need to make sure that we increase the effort in relation to the drug and drug problems with the space provided for years to come in that area. As far as poverty is concerned, I am pleased with the support given by the Christian People's Party in relation to having a strong focus on combating poverty internationally. But we have a great responsibility in a time like ours, how many people feel to have significantly increased purchasing power, while some people are outside. It also means that I would like to invite the Christian People's Party to join in and discuss how we are going to create the security network at the bottom, that is, social assistance, so that it is predictable, and with equal treatment for people around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e513	I would like to give a little response to what the Minister of Finance said. I note that the Minister of Finance is now, to be confused, using the same argument that Minister of Children and Family Laila Davøy used when it is necessary to set the price further on pediatric tariffs. We agree on that now, I understand. But we didn't get an answer as to whether you want to join and bet on cheaper kindergartens for those who need it the most. I am sure the Minister of Finance has seen what the Children's Ombudsman says about it from the analyses that have been carried out around the municipalities. As far as poverty is concerned, the Minister of Finance has to be absolutely sure that we are going to follow it up in the budget. On the other hand, it is with great wonder that I read in today's VG, and I quote SV's fiscal spokesman: 'Azlaug Haga gives the bluff to the poor.' As far as I know, Åslaug Haga is one of the most central government members. So it must mean that also the government gives the bluff to the poor, if I should understand Heikki Holmås, on behalf of SV, correctly. So I want to give you three challenges in terms of poverty, and we want to cooperate with the Government on that. In terms of kindergarten rates, we want differentiated prices for those who have the worst income. Then we want a strengthening of the housing support. It will mean a lot to those who need it the most. I would also recommend that we sit down and see what we do with the systemic failure in the area of drug care, where non-governmental organisations have free treatment facilities that are not used because of the funding system. Finally, the Soria Moria Castle is a beautiful image of Theodor Kittelsen. And the title is "Long, far away he said something bright and glitter." I actually think it's so that some of the groups that were most excited about government change two years ago, might seem that much still seems to be far, far away.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e524	The Norwegian giant has an international unique freedom of action in economic policy. The red-green government prioritises the Community's thinking and correcting market forces more strongly than a government in which the Right is involved. This provides better opportunities to develop balanced conditions among people, secure national interests for our natural resources, keep Norway clean, with clean water, clean air and clean soil, and take care of the interests of the coastal and rural population. International solidarity is also better served. However, many voters who are behind the red-green government are impatient to see this stronger through practical measures in their everyday lives. That's good. The state budget of the year is close to the expectations of welfare improvements created in a high economic situation. For the Centre Party, it is particularly gratifying that we now receive equivalent social security rights at birth for maritime workers, as has been the case for female employees for many years. Our monetary policy should be as open, stable and predictable as possible. It shall support fiscal policies by contributing to stabilising developments in production and employment. For monetary policy, we have a demanding balance. From the main board of the Norwegian Bank's interest rate meeting on 15 August to a new meeting on 26 September, the market assessment of the Norwegian forward rate is quite stable, while the forward rate for our main trading partners in 2008 is lower. This creates an even more demanding situation because there will be an increased positive interest rate difference for our main trading partners if the interest rate is followed by the interest rate path set by the Norwegian Bank in Monetary Policy Report No. 2 this year. That's where the interest rate line was raised with a peak of 5.75 pst. in the second half of 2008. During the consultation of the Financial Committee with the Governor of the Central Bank in May of this year on the credit notification in 2006, Gedderm stated: ‘There are expectations that we will increase interest rates in the future slightly more than what will happen to an average of our trading partners.’ Further: ‘One can imagine that it is already priced into the foreign exchange market and that the foreign exchange market reacts more to unexpected news than to expected changes in interest rates.’ And finally: ‘However, it may of course be a difference when you become fully aware in practice of the development of an interest rate difference.’ Today, we know that the difference in interest rates has increased, that the rate of interest is strengthened, and that the rate of borrowing by individuals is stablely very high with 12 psts per year. increase. At the same time, public expectations for more money have been generated for new and extended welfare schemes. This is a very demanding situation, which it is important to discuss in depth in the future. The long-term consequences of priority choices must weigh more heavily. For the Central Party, the policy implications for young people versus well-off elderly people and the framework conditions of competitive business will point to the fact that we do not pursue an economic policy that contributes to a further increase in the interest differential between our trading partners. If necessary, financial policy measures must be put in place to support this monetary policy line. For production holdings that are largely located in the districts, this weighting is essential in order to have long-term, predictable framework conditions. Reasons for distribution between persons clearly point in the same direction. For the Central Party, it is very central to ensure a comprehensive business life with a keen eye to the international competitive situation, which is becoming more and more brutal, and which requires a very active national enterprise policy in order to further develop key industries in Norway with profitable forward-looking enterprises, provided that good strategic management and – I stress – trustful cooperation with employees. In this context, theoretical business neutrality is not enough represented by the power elite in Oslo, as I went into the debate yesterday. The State budget must reach through a thorough treatment in Stortinget. A lot of people come to our hearings to say their own about the budget. There are good people in the respective government parties who have not had the opportunity to go into all aspects of the budget, and there is even an opposition to be listened to. Against this background, the Central Party’s Majority Group will keep the possibility open for changes to the next year’s government budget in the Stortinget. This becomes an important and demanding harvest session, where leadership that manages our unique financial opportunities in the long term needs to become more in the focus of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e559	At the end of the last speaker, I became somewhat uncertain whether there is a clear majority for this budget, but I think it will be an opportunity to come back to this in the further debate. I want to start with a slightly different perspective than other speakers and say that when I got this in my hands a little before noon. 8.30 today early and began to bark in it, I came in a somewhat melancholy mood. It's incredible how much money we have, and how rich this country is, and I had some problems throwing myself into all the details and reflecting on it -- not because not every budget every year gives a little more money to distribute, because it's always done, but we have to be able to say that this is a completely adventurous situation for the country. I think the finance minister is exhausted enough to share with many that we have managed to discipline ourselves over the years, so that it is possible to take care of such a fantastic economy. Then the next question is, when there is such a great wealth of money, does this provide the basis for more or less politics, or more or less priorities? My claim is that such good times – so fairytale times – set at least equal demands on political priorities, because in terms of so great a wealth of money, where there is so much money, for the most part, error priorities become very clear. We'll soon have a discussion about the budget is tight enough, and I'll be told that here's the economists who say it could be even tighter. I must say that I didn't think it had been as tight as this. Being so honest isn't entirely permissible, is it? [[muttering in the hall]] We are also protected in the field of taxation by an agreement on tax reform – it is firm – and by a promise from the Government that we will no longer go back to the level of taxation in 2004. It means that there are limited things that can be done on taxes, and it's almost making little sense, on income taxes at least. Even the entry points are adjusted. I have also recorded what is happening in taxes on wealth, and I am going to spend more time pondering the effect of it. I fear it can lead to an extra tax for those who own Norwegian companies, and that it weakens private Norwegian ownership, because that's what most millions spend their money and their assets for. So I want to say, even though it is dangerous after the last days to praise the government too much, that I think the government has taken an important little step towards doing something about green taxes. I must acknowledge that for you. I'm going to go into the alternative budget left to work on, to show that it's possible to go even further. But I agree that an important step has been taken here. It's pretty tough with 40 cents on the mineral oil charge, I agree with that. So here's an important step. So with a slightly tighter mask for the finance minister, who would have really been going off if it wasn't full child care coverage by the end of 2007: now I understand that there are ambitions to get it to by the end of 2008. I think the government is right to push cover in front of further price reductions. We've discussed that hard before in this room, and I'm recording in what's now being presented, that I might have gotten a little straight. I also want to remind the Minister of Finance of her very clear words that poverty can be eradicated with a pen stroke. That pen stroke has not been included in this budget. I think it's too complicated that there are some such simple pen strokes, but it's possible to show even greater will, and I think the further budgetary procedure will also show that. So to the point where I'm pretty sure there's going to be the most storm when we go out of this hall, and I'm going to be involved and contribute to it. The Minister of Knowledge's budget has received a lot of money. They are to the degrees prioritised: for child care coverage SEK 2.7 billion, for SFO 276 million. and for apples and bananas in high school more than 200 million. DKK – 3.2 billion. There's a lot of money, and it's in stark contrast to what's done in the university, college and research sectors. That's why it's likely to be the basis for saying quite clearly that unfortunately the rest cut has not been fixed, and the adverse effects of the current year's rest cut on what is our future, what we're going to live on in the future, are unfortunately far too great. With regard to the environment and climate, and the challenges of CO2 clean-up, the Government is reversing the cuts that came into the revised national budget on Kårstø and adding it further, little by little. The challenge is, however, to see when it is possible to get that cleaning, if we could have the right things to spend that money on when this year is also over. I fear we will get into a situation where the government also has the basis to cut it when we come to the revised national budget, not because the government does not want to, but because we do not yet have anything to put that money into.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e585	It was a relief to experience an amazing and searching Sponheim. I think that was very dressy, and I hope we'll see more of that in the future. Sponheim is right that we have a very unique economic situation, but also that it requires quite a lot of us, because we've been overrun good times in the past. Our major challenge is especially now to ensure that we are able to keep the low unemployment situation, so that all those who have been forced out of the labour market for various reasons, and thus have a low income because they do not have a wage to live on, have an opportunity to come back in. It's a very important focus to have; it's our most important approach to combating poverty. But it's also our most important move to get the chance to meet what's the biggest challenge. Because that's not the money we need, there's people -- people to do all the things we should have done. This is why the perspective of getting those groups that are currently out of the labour market back into the labour market, so that we can solve those problems. So I have to say that this black paint of research and higher education is not really rooted. Appropriations for higher education, higher education and universities have a real growth rate of 2 pst. For research, there's a real growth of 3 pst. So if we compare it to the previous government, which in Sponheim's eyes was probably perfect and good in many ways, we're better off than they did. But something has to be criticised by the opposition, so we get to take that debate out of this room. What I don't think is very dressy for a leader from the Left, is not to see the connection between what kind of knowledge level it is to get into a kindergarten reform that gives room to all the kids who want it. It's a very important investment for the future. We can only compare with the first Bondevik government's investment in kindergartens for 2001. Then we were down to 2,000 new places a year. This year, 22,000 new sites are being built and well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e596	Nevertheless – and I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Finance is going to experience at the levels of the debate on the budget later on – that when you have a budget where so much money is to be distributed, where the wealth of money is so great, it becomes quite a ghastly contrast to what perhaps our most important sector of all, research, higher education and universities, gets. You world what it could have contributed to, especially after this interrupted, of the vitalization of this sector, if the Government had prioritised differently. What I want to announce on this occasion is that there are three areas that we in the Left, perhaps together with other parts of the opposition, are going to use the forces to improve this budget, because that's what's needed. One is poverty. This applies in the area of drug care, in the area of rehabilitation, where there is a need for a much clearer rise, especially when you have so much money to spend — perhaps especially then. Then it's the university, college and research sectors, which, in my opinion, are going to require a clearer priority to get a greater share of the wealth of money in this budget. In the last area – and I stress that here I have recognised that the Government has taken some important steps for green taxation – there will be an increase in the investment in the renewable sector, so that the renewable sector does not escape Norway, is purchased in Norway due to higher grant rates elsewhere, and not least more tax shifts. The government's tax change is, as far as I could catch up at full speed, about half a billion kroner. There is a basis for taking significantly more. Finally, I think it's going to be wrong if we can't be so honest, with a budget where there's so much money to distribute, to say that we're all agreed on very much, and that we have great things in this country. I was actually going to quote the 'Sun King' in Versailles and say that after me the flood comes, but I fear that the Minister of Finance will use it against the 2009 elections. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e611	You're right about that!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e616	The rest of us are waiting for developments beyond the day, I understand. Does the Minister for Finance wish the floor for a final comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e621	Sure, President. I think we have put forward a pretty good budget, because it is not possible to'storm' in so many areas. It's a budget that addresses the job that we have a duty to take, even though not all the grips are equally popular in terms of the environment and climate, and it's a budget that thinks of all the areas that are responsible for doing it. When all of us in each of our fields, including the Stortinget, take that responsibility and ask ourselves environmental and climate issues every day, about how we are doing now, work in relation to the climate challenges, whether we are engaged in industrial policy for the future, or we are engaged in energy, or we are engaged in agriculture, or we are engaged in oil money and pension funds, we can use the opportunities we have to change Norwegian society. That change does not end in 2008. That change has to go on, because everything we get from news about climate is going the wrong way. The ice melts faster than before, the sea rises more than before. Then we're going to manage the most important capital we have up in this, and that's people. That's why we've submitted as good a health budget as we've done. That is why we have also put forward a budget of as good education as we have done. That's why we've been focusing on active industrial policy. And then we have to remember all the places in the country where it doesn't boil, but where the problem is the opposite, where it's dislocation, where it's not like housing prices go to the worst, but where it's almost not possible to get anyone to buy their house – the situation is completely different. To combat poverty, which is a huge responsibility that we all have: the main profile of this budget in terms of poverty, is to use the extraordinary situation we have in the labour market, so that those who want to do a job will have the chance to do that job. Therefore, we must have a high level of labour market measures, but they must also be such that they are based on each individual person. We have challenges in terms of drugs. That's absolutely right. Hardly anyone is as desperate as the parents who are with youth as they see need a completely different offer and a different follow-up than they are able to get. It's a challenge that we have to take seriously and work on. Then there have been some questions and requests regarding the national transport plan. We have fulfilled the national transport plan. Let's take another 200 million. kr in the lag which has occurred in the case of the national transport plan. Our challenge in this area and in many other areas of investment is that the lack of labour causes costs to increase enormously. That means that it's not necessarily that if we had put even more money on top of what we've already done, we would get so much more out of it, because there's a lack of capacity. I know there are people around the country who would like to have a college or other construction or other development tasks, and who are disappointed that they are not in the budget now. But it has a reason, and it's just about capacity, and that the workforce is the most important thing. I then meet all the exciting and important political debates in this budget ahead. It's incredibly important that we be able to raise our eyes and take them, because there are major challenges ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e638	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance’s presentation of the Government’s proposals for the State Budget and the National Budget for 2008 be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-10-05.ana.ud961e725	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
