ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e30	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e33	Old dogmas don't fall. Unfortunately, today’s government parties refuse to admit that the dwelling obligation does not function properly. Well, so far is nothing new under the sun. The obligation to live does not contribute to the purpose of the dwelling. A research project at the Institute of Economics and Social Sciences at Norway's Agricultural Higher Education School, today the University of Environmental and Life Sciences, showed several interesting findings in 2002. The survey looked at 39 municipalities throughout the country with housing obligations. These were compared with corresponding municipalities without accommodation. The survey showed that the housing obligation did not have a positive effect on an increase in the population, nor did it prevent a decline in the population of non-residential municipalities. The study further showed: The average number of dwellings transferred from one full-year residence to another to one of the less-favoured municipalities during the year is the same as in non-residential municipalities.The percentage of dwellings transferred from one full-year residence status to one of the less-favoured municipalities is higher in residential areas than in municipalities.The obligation to live prevents the movement of property.The obligation to live leads to a lower level of investment and maintenance.The obligation to live has no positive effect in increasing the population.The obligation to live increases the financial risk for people buying property in a municipality with weak growth, population decline and housing.The control of compliance with the obligation to live is difficult to implement and create conflicts in the local environment.The obligation to live is easy to circumvent through the so-called family paragraph. On the other hand, the study confirms that housing leads to a severe reduction in the value of the owner. Housing is declared to be the key instrument of rural and agricultural policy. This is alarming, given that there is no professional basis for claiming that the obligation to live has a positive function in terms of ensuring a spread of farming or farming activity. It must be a paradox that there will be a time limit or a long-term exemption from living obligations on a large scale. On March 16, 2007, the nation writes that only 9 pst. by those who applied for exemption from the obligation to live in agricultural properties in 2006, they were refused. Regulations involving strong intervention and major potential negative consequences for individuals should have sound professional justification. That is why the conclusion here is clear: the obligation to live must be removed!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e78	We have gradually become accustomed to the right-wing parties attacking agricultural regulation. So this time it's the home and the price regulation they're going to go on. As always, it is the market mechanisms that will solve all problems, as if the market has ever responded to the challenges we face in Building Norway. In fact, housing is a very important instrument of agricultural policy. Without active farming with resident farmers, the countryside is depopulated. For most of us, it's pretty obvious. However, I am not particularly surprised that the Progress Party and the Right believe that the money and the market alone will determine the ownership of Norwegian agricultural properties. When ownership is weighed against life and activity in agriculture, it is the sacred and inviolable right to own that always weighs most heavily on these lots. There is little doubt that the obligation to live and work is a main reason why we have managed to maintain a living agriculture with self-owning farmers to this day. Without the obligation to live and operate, it would not be possible to maintain housing and cultural landscapes. A large part of the applications for exemption from compulsory residence and employment are granted on a permanent or temporary basis. It is natural and in itself reassuring. The provisions are enforced and exemptions are not sought for no good reason. I think it shows that the system is working. It is then possible that the Government is now reviewing current regulations and their enforcement, also in order to confirm the functioning of the dwelling obligation. I have also noticed that housing has gradually become an important issue in coastal areas along the Oslofjord and the south coast. But here it is not the agricultural property that has to be protected against buying-in. Here, local communities and local people are threatened by money buyers from urban areas who are increasingly buying properties in the beach zone and converting them into leisure homes. In this way, the local population is displaced from coastal areas. The prices of ownership in coastal areas are now sky high. Only the very few, the ones with the most well-filled wallets, can today hope to buy a home with beachline in this part of the country. The level of prices also leads to such dwellings being offered for sale in the event of family break-up or heir settlement because none of the parties appears able to redeem the others. In municipalities like Tjøme, which has imposed housing obligations, it has to some extent succeeded in keeping prices down. But now the local Progress Party and the Right are in the process of breaking down the obligation to live. If the two parties win the local elections of the autumn, the local people at Tjøme have to fear – there too, of course. There is little comfort in the fact that they get what they deserve. The best thing to say about the Right Party and the Advance Party is that they never deny themselves. They are always on the side of capital and market forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e97	First, I would like to make the previous speaker aware that the high price of coastal property is just coming from the fact that there are restrictions as to how many of the types of property that the authorities today allow it to be built. Governance leads to higher prices. A representative from Vestfold should have brought that. So to this debate. I think it has been encouraging to hear a debate in which a Central Party Council of State has got SV as its strongest ally on property issues. I think that's sad. I had believed that the Central Party in this type of case would balance this to the advantage of ownership and support the views expressed by the Right and the Advance Party in this matter. In my reply to the Council of State, he replied that the main purpose of the obligation to live is to have economic development and activity in the countryside. It's not that the person who owns the property and who is forced to live on it is also going to run it. So the main purpose is that there should be industrial development and activity in the countryside. Then you can ask questions about what contributes to it. Does it contribute to rural activity if a lawyer from Oslo who serves well is allowed to buy a small farm in Telemark, where the Council of State comes from, and channel much of the income he has from other activities into the small business? It has to be obvious that it would be positive for these towns. It's just to point out what's happening in our neighboring country Sweden. There, border areas of Norway have been deportation areas, while Norwegians have found it appropriate to buy a torpedoes, i.e. a small farm, there. It has become popular, and this has led to these depopulated rural areas in Sweden having a new spring and a growth because the Nordics want to invest their funds in these properties. The figures from the Central Statistical Office show that there are 34 000 housing units on agricultural properties that are currently unoccupied. The question then is how the Council of State, by practicing a strict housing obligation, has intended to get light in these houses.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e108	The President has resisted the temptation to make statements. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 2857]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e130	There was almost no need to take the word after the President's excellent presentation of the interpellation text, but I would like to complement what is also shown by the interpellation submitted some time ago. A more vulnerable electricity supply where electricity consumption has increased more than recent power generation has led to a significant underbalance in electricity supply in some parts of the country. This should of course have been the result of the government initiating an increase in local energy production. When the government scraped the green certificates and promised a better scheme, but instead introduced an alternative with a support amount that is only half of what the certificates would have given, very, very many renewable projects are dropped out in District Norway. Of course, when local development is not implemented, Statnett – that is their job – plans instead to carry out large and new power lines. There are planned power lines through valuable natural landscapes throughout the country. The development of the electricity grid conflicts with many interests along Hardangerfjorden, Sunnmøre, Agder and Sogn and Fjordane, among others. near Nærøyfjorden and Geirangerfjord, both recently integrated into the UN exclusive World Heritage List. Norway’s fjord landscape thus has both national and international interest, which should provide additional protection for these areas. The tourist industry, the local population, outdoor operators, cabin owners and conservationists are opposed. Why are the reactions so strong? Because there are many large masts through scenic areas that are popular for both the visitors and the locals. The masts will be 25 to 45 meters high, and go for about 25 to 45 meters high. 40 meters wide power streets where the vegetation is cleared away. Only in Sogn and Fjordane and in southern parts of Sunnmøre will this be about something like 300 km highspentmast. First amanuensis Ståle Navrud at the Department of Economics and Resource Management at the University of Environment and Life Sciences, with a specialised social economy, has made estimates showing that each household in Norway would have to pay between 25 and 40 kroner per year. years in increased network leases for cable installation, thus preserving the valuable landscape in Hardanger. Alternatively, of course, there could have been an opportunity for the Government, which now has approx. Extra 20 billion dollars a year at the disposal of the kerosene fund, because of the return on the kerosene fund, to have spent this money on reasonable investments to prevent unnecessary natural interference, if it would have been preferable. In practice, the increased network lease or appropriations from the Government will also be reduced, as the additional costs of cable will become a fuel layer with industry. So far, the focus of the authorities has been linked to the cost of cableing, either sea cable or other wiring. But one should also focus on the benefits of avoiding landscape interference by placing the cables in the sea and in the ground, and not just on costs. Nor should we forget that climate change speaks in favour of land and sea cables. Navrud draws up Steigen as a current example of how vulnerable a power supply in the airline may be. Navrud is critical to the way in which the energy sector conducts analyses of planned projects. This is where I want the Council of State to now involve itself. All sectors of society are required to assess the socio-economic benefits and socio-economic costs of their projects. The energy sector is distinguished by the fact that socio-economic analyses do not include the environmental costs of planned deployments of electricity lines. Are the Councils of State interested in the following, and will the Council of State require Statnets to carry out, the type of socio-economic cost-benefit analysis, in which nature is also appreciated in this context in the energy sector? In other sectors, such as transport and the environment, environmental costs have been much further incorporated into socio-economic analyses, which are consistent with the Ministry of Finance's analysis guide. So for example, at the Baltic Sea in Oslo, a power line goes along both the water and the nature reserve. The power line was planned to be upgraded, and two alternatives were involved. The most reasonable option was to attach new arms and new cables to the masts that were already there. The second option, which would mean a less natural action, was to put a cable in the ground. A random selection of 600 households on Bøler, Lambertseter and the Baltic Sea were asked what they were willing to pay in increased power bills to remove the masts, as they felt they were shattering. When people are asked directly, it turns out that they see great value in preserving the natural landscape against interference. In the planned development of the central network, the population should also be consulted, and there should be a concrete assessment of the specific project, also in relation to the nature intervention. Of course, the best thing would be that you had an arrangement with an aid amount that would be in line with what green certificates would have given, so that you had a local power generation. There are ready-to-use 15 TWh projects in Norway that could have been implemented but are not implemented because of the urgency of the Council of State and because the Government has scrapped the green certificates and has put in place an aid scheme that is only half of the aid rates that the green certificates would grant. Of course, if local energy production, new renewable energy, could be started in central Norway or the West, there would not have been the same urgent need for these transmission lines. But it doesn't seem like anything's happening in that area. Now, hopefully, we're going to make a climate deal here in Stortinget, and an inevitable demand from the Right will be that we push forward support schemes for new renewable energy that trigger it. If we succeed in pressing the Government to introduce something similar to the green certificate, it will provide support for the release of new renewable energy, so it can take some of the pressure away from these lines. These are not wires that occur in one day. Here we are talking about a planning process with a horizon at least until 2012–2013 many of these sites, some of which will come before. In this respect, it was very encouraging that a clear decision was made at the Central Party's national meeting, which stated that the Government was required to take the initiative to put power lines into cables where the environmental costs of air voltage are high. And then the SV also came after at their country meeting. Then the Center Party and SV are in place, and we have seen that it works, at least in climate policy. Then the Prime Minister and the Labour Party also came into place gradually – albeit reluctantly, but when they arrived, they came as a shot. It really made way for the well. What I am concerned about now is getting a constructive debate here in the Chamber. How can we increase local energy production? Where we do not see that this is fully realistic, we need to look at the legislation and guidelines that Statnett has to deal with today, so that they can also consider wiring more effectively as an alternative. A sea cable through Hardangerfjorden will be more expensive, but what is the price natural, touristic and for those who live there by such an intervention? I believe that this type of balances must be carried out by means of concrete expansions. I'm curious if the Council of State has now thought about how he will follow up the Central Party's national meeting decision that there should be a concrete assessment of wiring in the event of major natural disasters. We're all excited about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e160	Then the voltage will be triggered. The interpellation will be answered by State Council Odd Roger Enoxen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e163	The representative Brende may have given an answer as to why the previous government did not build power lines into those areas where there is a significant deficit in power. But I don't know if the representative has responded equally to why the government did not introduce green certificates or provide sufficient local production in areas where it was known that there would be a large power shortage in the years to come. - But leave it. I have been concerned about the issue since I joined, and during the last year, extensive measures have been put in place to increase the production capacity of the Norwegian power system. In particular, the Government has been concerned with developments in just central Norway, as the representative Børge Brende points out, is one of the difficult areas, plus Hordaland, which is also a demanding area of supply. Before Christmas, part of the action plan for Central Norway was presented. Facilitation of new power generation locally is a central element of this action plan. The government has also presented and has given a majority in the UK for an ambitious strategy to achieve significantly more renewable production in Norway. The Government has set an overall target of 30 TWh of increased renewable energy production and energy efficiency improvement by 2016 compared to 2001. A base fund of DKK 10 billion has also been established, which will be increased by another DKK 10 billion in 2009. There is an input of renewable energy resources that no previous government has done. Overall, this will increase the economic framework for renewable energy production by around 900 million. kr every year. In addition, the Government has through St.meld. No 11 for 2006-2007 proposed an aid scheme for renewable electricity. Gas power deployment with CO2 management is also a central element of the government's policy and also needs to be mentioned as an element in how to increase local power generation in those areas that have a large undercover, especially in the two areas that I am talking about. The government has concluded a historic agreement relating to the realisation of the gas power plant in Mongstad, where the CO2 management system ensures the development and testing of new technologies, while at the same time establishing new production capacity locally in Hordaland – an area where it is absolutely necessary. The effort on new generation capacity and energy conversion will help to strengthen the national and regional balance of power in the coming years. Having said that, I would say that it is not that we can or should choose between new production and the development of networks. Unfortunately, it is not that simple. Both local focus on new generation capacity and focus on strengthening the power grid are essential elements of a strategy for a secure energy supply. A well-developed power grid, both domestically and between Nordic countries, is essential for the efficient functioning of the Nordic power market, thus providing the best possible use of resources and a secure energy supply. In particular, Norway, with a hydropower-based power supply, is vulnerable and dependent on a functioning Nordic system, including: good transmission connections. So it's quite right, as Børge Brende points out, that the construction of transmission lines is expensive and often has negative effects on both nature and the environment. Therefore, the analysis of consequences, alternative pathways and various remedial measures becomes an essential part of the work that needs to be done. In addition to the assessment of cables, remedial measures are considered such as the adaptation of tracks, the reorganisation of old installations, parallelisation with existing wires, mast types and the colouring of masts and lines. The measures in question vary, of course, from project to project, but in most power lines, concrete assessments are made of cable as an alternative to air pipeline. Both the benefits and the costs of bridging or other remedial measures vary from place to place and depend not least on the level of tension. The choice of cables or other remedial measures is based on the same principles as in the concession treatment of production plants, i.e.: after carefully weighing environmental impacts against costs. Unfortunately, cabling also involves natural interference. Therefore, the benefits of cabling will depend on the impact of an air line on natural diversity and landscape, in relation to the nature interference cables. For example, cables in the snäufjellet will lead to much greater natural interference than in areas with abundant soil and rapid revegetation. On the cost side, too, the picture is complex. The costs of wiring will include, inter alia: depending on whether the cable can be dug down or whether the cable has to be blown up. In addition, the need for access points for the regional network will often provide a clear framework for possible cross-fertilisation and thus for how to install any cable. Energy management, in cooperation with environmental management, has developed the current management strategy for the environment and aesthetics in electricity pipelines. The Ministry of Oil and Energy put forward the question of cable as an alternative to the air pipeline in St.prp. No 19 for 2000–2001 and this joined the Stortinget. The strategy implies that the use of cable at higher voltages should be restrictive, but cables are not excluded in sections where there is strong environmental concern. The government is aware of regions where the growth of consumption is or is expected to be particularly high over the years ahead and is actively facilitating new power generation in these areas. However, a well-functioning local and national power system often requires significant reinforcements of the power system. The current management strategy for cabling already implies that a balance between the benefits and disadvantages of cabling and other remedial measures will be the basis of the concession treatment. Of course, it will also be grounded in the future. As the representative says, environmental concerns, natural interventions, etc. be given more and more attention. I see no need to change the legislation on how this is done. But what I see reason for is to spend even more time and even more resources on figuring out and evaluating different alternatives to each other. From project to project, as the representative asks, we will carefully assess whether wiring can be a better alternative than air voltage, both in terms of nature interventions, in relation to the environment, and we will also assess the costs in this context. In this way, I will meet what the Central Party's national meeting has asked for, and which is also the Government's policy: taking environmental considerations into account, taking into account thorough assessments before deciding on each project.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e195	First, a well-meaning advice to the Council of State: when the Government has been sitting for almost two years, it does not keep the same way in every context to point out that everything that is bad and difficult is the fault of the pastors, while, for example, now reaches. unemployment falls, such references are rarely used. I think it's time for you to actually take responsibility for the fact that you've been driving this country for two years. I don't think the previous government has anything to be ashamed of when it comes to the effort you made to get more energy in place, among other things. More hydropower was built over four years than was done in the 1990s. In the case of green certificates, the draft law was sent to the hearing. It was, of course, difficult to implement it before it was in place in Sweden, as there would be a single market between Sweden and Norway. In fact, that was not possible if it were not to be a purely Norwegian market. Even the previous government was in fact unable to do this. Negotiations with Sweden did not go so well, so you had to scrape the green certificates. We have said that we have now had this debate. What the Council of State has said is that there should be at least the same level of support – a better level of support – when implementing it in Norway. So now we're going to have support for mini-power plants of four centimeters, for wind power of eight centimeters, and for bioenergy of ten centimeters. With the green certificates, you'd be 15 to 20 cents. Then it's only half as good. That's not the main point. The main point is that when this is half as good, it also triggers much less renewable energy that is potable and that could have been produced in these areas, so that instead of these heavy power lines you could actually have increased local energy production. When it is that the government, for the time being, has not realised this, and is not willing to make a compromise which means that it will be at least as good, one must also look at this with wiring. Then this problem reported itself. Of course, I am disappointed that the Council of State determines that he sees no need to change the regulation. It also indicates that he does not necessarily send new signals when it comes to attaching extra weight to nature. Is it the case that the Council of State will also demand, and I would like to have a concrete answer to that question, that nature intervention will receive a price in the economic calculations? And is it so that the Council of State today, at least to the Grand Council, can send a signal that he is against Statnett, for example. in Hardangerfjorden, in Sogn and Fjordane and on Sunnmøre, will seriously assess sea cabling? Yesterday a sea cable was opened from Norway to the Netherlands. It's okay, but in the case of our own Western fjords, it's a restraint that I think is quite astonishing. What we're looking for is to get some strong signals that you're also willing to think about new things.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e206	I'm a little surprised, because I actually think that I answered the representative's request quite politely in relation to putting a strong emphasis on just environmental considerations in the future. So I think we all have to respect that there are no projects that are the same. Sea cable is one thing, building cable tracks on land is quite another, and can often lead to as much natural interference as for example. an airline may be used. The problem with an air line is that it's shaming because you see it, but it's wired, for example. In some areas, 420 kV involve significant natural interventions where they are to be landed. There is a significant difference between sea cable and what has to go overboard. But anyway, there will be thorough assessments in each project, both on the partial sections and on the entire sections. There can be a lot of problems around this. It is true that long-distance cabling does not allow regional take-offs or that regional take-offs on such a route will be very expensive and difficult. It's counting in the negative direction. Then it's actually wrong, as the representative claims, that local production could prevent the construction of power lines. First of all, it would be like a production in central Norway based on, for example, wind power, which would provide the entire deficit in the area without reinforcing the transmission links into this area, is almost unmistakable. We are talking about a significant production that must exist in this area. Secondly, the need for a secure energy supply also implies that one must have a combination of power generation and transmission connections, as stated by the Government. For example, at a gas power plant, which provides a very large point production in an area where we have petroleum plants and industry – take MidNorway – a break, a fault, at this gas power plant, where it can stand for two months in winter, to take an example, could have dramatic consequences for the area if there are no transmission links into the area that are capable of feeding the area the amount of energy needed at such a possible stop. What I'm trying to say about this is that there are many complex and complex issues that need to be considered when deciding what to do. It's not a either-or. I'm afraid it's a boat and a boat. It costs, it means natural intervention, and it means local production. The government suggests that we should take the utmost environmental considerations and carry out these assessments on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e217	The exchange of words we have had so far shows that the theme that the interpellant has addressed is important, but extremely complicated. In this way, one cannot solve the problems that are being addressed through an interpellation. There are basically two main challenges: one is increased local production of power, and the other is a possible new policy for the construction of lines. The production of power based on water is the most environmentally friendly way of producing large amounts of power. In Norway, our electricity consumption is based on hydropower. The weakness of having a one-sided system is that one is very vulnerable to the fluctuations in rainfall from year to year. This means that there must be an exchange of power between parts of the country and between countries. This is a situation that has only intensified. The situation of imbalance is, as mentioned, related to Middle Norway and More and Romesdal in particular, but also other areas will face a similar situation in the foreseeable future. Now it is not very pleasant to chew up the pot from last year, but when the interpellant so unilaterally puts the load on – and accuses – the government that has now been sitting for 19 months for not having done the job, it becomes a derailment. State Council Enoxen showed in his statement what the red-green government has done to improve the balance between consumption and production. For example, the target is 30 TWh, i.e. 25 pst. increase in renewable energy and energy efficiency, with the ability to achieve an acceptable balance over time, as a single measure. As far as I remember, the Right and the representative Børge Burnde voted against just this fund of 20 billion kroner that would add up to such a scheme, referring to a desire for a green certificate market. At least the previous government did not get this in place, and when the red-green government took over, it turned out that it was not feasible. But we have put in place support schemes for bio, wind and smaller power plants. We have made a hard effort to build a gas power plant with CO2 handling. The size knows well what lies there of appropriations. This means that one over time will have a national effect. So it's like, when it comes to the transfer of power between parts of the country, some of the lines go through valuable natural landscapes and vulnerable nature. That's why it's important to have a strong focus on this in new line construction, but I think it's a little sad to hear how many there are that help to simplify these problems. It is not that you can compare a sea cable over the North Sea with a cable over a Norwegian fjord. There are completely different issues we're facing, without me going into the technical here, of course, but I want to say right away that when the environmental costs with air voltage are obvious, it has to be able to assess, on a case-by-case basis, the ground or sea cable where it might be relevant. I would also like to remind you of the following: According to information from Statnett, the pieces of cable in a 420kW line will be 500 – 700 meters long, and that means repeated joints on a section, which is both complicated and expensive. The level of tension in the cables will also be such that one must have a broad trajectory, which, if necessary, through mountain soil and snowjel, will lead to formidable natural interventions. This shows that there are no simple answers. We also know that well-recognised cost calculations show that they are maybe ten times higher with a cable than with an air voltage. These are costs that are passed on to businesses and households. I believe that this must be taken into account when assessing solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e239	Today's interpellation really deals with two issues. One is increased power generation. The other one's wired. In particular, the first topic is a familiar issue in this room, and makes it possible for most of us to just bring out old speeches, update the date, and then the numbers are the same in time. But for two reasons, there's a bit of a strange debate. First of all, many of the network conflicts we are now experiencing are due to the fact that there has been a lack of power in this room under previous governments, not just the last one, but governments before that as well. Had a built out of the power potential that was, one would have gladly avoided the need to bring power into other areas. Secondly, in the last period, we had a case about Årum in Fredrikstad, where, for health reasons – not purely aesthetic reasons – it was a fear in the local population because a power line was going through a residential area. It was a broad opposition that took up the theme – probably in time and untimely the previous government would feel – but the previous government did nothing, and today's government does nothing. Anyway, we're sitting here and we're very concerned about the problem. It is always sympathetic to repentant sinners, at least as a rule. I hope that this can mean that we are getting a little breakthrough today, because some of the network investments that are being made today are bad energy policies and there are bad environmental policies. Let me do the power production first. The need for power is still great in many parts of the country. One would think that the problem was solved now that the climate debate is going on, and it is probably a long time since someone has been talking about the power situation in central Norway and was really worried. But on 10 January last year, the Council of State said that we have to put in place a considerable volume with new power to secure the situation. On 1 May last year, the Prime Minister was at Forest and said that now it was just putting the shovel in the ground. So nothing has happened much more in that region. No significant new volume has come. Yes, the Council of State is probably spending a lot of time following the situation. I don't doubt that, but the results are missing. It's okay to have goals, but I think people in Middle Norway don't breathe out until they see that new power is in the system. Then, for example, I can. I want to know – and I'm sure I'll be shutting down by the Council of State to point this out – the emissions permit, for example. for the Tent Credit, or both the concession and the permit for Industrial Power Moor. It doesn't just help to blame the Bondevik II government and say that the situation should be resolved four years ago, when you can't even do anything in two years. There's a lot of complicated questions about this -- that's quite right, as the Council of State says -- and I think it doesn't really apply internally in the government. There's probably enough gas power problems even more complicated than they would otherwise have had to be. As an energy nation, our potential for power development is great, but it's not triggered. This is due, inter alia, to: protective decisions. The first thing this government did was protect the fabric that could provide 1.5 TWh with new renewable power without CO2 emissions and at low cost. But we also know that the upgrading project for existing power plants has automatically been rejected by the NVE, because the Stortinget after the power plant was built has protected the area. In the case of small-scale, bio- and wind power, much is boasted that a good support system has been put in place. What one forgets is that everyone who was going to deal with the system has said that it's the wrong system. We know that someone does not want the municipalities to be able to make local decisions. One shall not be able to say yes to small power plants, but one shall not be able to say no to wind power either. It is a paradox that the Storting now argues about the power grid as a disgrace to nature, but some come and will build a windmill, it is considered very positive. A compromise in this matter could be that the power grid around the country was shaped like windmills, and that the cables became like the wing voltage, for this cable debate is important, as it now takes off. It's rarely seen local people's reactions to water and biopower projects, but it's very often that one sees people's reactions to net investment. Then you have to see where society can get the most out of the money you're going to invest. Is it in the grid, or is there a significant increase in power generation? I'm not saying that we don't need both, but sometimes one can give priority to one to reduce the need for the other. The debate on networks is often emotional, and there are many planned investments in the future that will give us some debate. The consideration of the environment and aesthetic values is set against costs. I think that's natural, but it gets a little bit crooked when the aesthetic environmental values are often priced to zero, and one only looks at the cost between ground and air voltage. Whenever one knows that many routes will pass through protected areas, either already or soon protected areas, in the periphery of world heritage sites or in tourist areas, an absolute set of natural values should be higher than zero. Based on the attitude of the red-green parties before they came into government, and what has been expressed at the national meetings of some parties, as well as this new feeling from the Right, I hope that we will have a review of the network rules, so that we can avoid such conflicts in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e265	At first I want to remind Asmund Kristoffersen that the Right voted against the Enoxen Energy Fund, but for the introduction of green certificates, which would prove to have given much greater counting, just so it's said once again. I believe that the interpellant is raising an important debate, challenging us on conventional solutions in the energy sector that stem from a time when the flow in general was a very forward-looking good, and power lines were of course part of this picture, which symbolized growth and prosperity and not least jobs. Out in District Norway where the power was created, power lines were accepted by the population, because it led to visible wealth development. Today, the situation is different. Fuel lines are planned through vulnerable areas to give economic growth far away. Like everything else in our time, the perception of valuable landscape spaces, which can mean growth in a growing industry that gives more positive local impact, namely tourism and travel, but also increasing awareness that we have a responsibility to manage valuable landscape spaces in a way that our descendants too, who will certainly have even greater demands for aesthetics in the landscape room, may be familiar with. What we are talking about here today is simply the development of a new policy in an area where our usual performances are challenged and where our standards change. Therefore, it is commendable of Børge Brende to raise this debate. In the right, we have just left behind a national meeting that showed that the Right is in line with its offensive former Environment Minister. It is simply a question of a new valuation of landscape values and the social economy in a much broader perspective. Studies show that people are willing to help cover some of the additional costs of the central network charge. But a new socio-economic assessment suggests that this must be a fissile layer where those with a greater interest in generating energy, and those with a sales interest, are involved and contribute to more gentle land use interventions, such as cabling. Today, there is just a lot of power needs on the coast and even at sea, with political objectives of electrifying more of the base, that's what we're talking about. Then we can't leave the transit areas behind with the bill in the form of damaged landscape rooms. Personally, I think it is inspiring to be part of this kind of maturation process, which is bound to result in new policies in this area. It was therefore disappointing that the Council of State was so little attending, I would say so little visionary, when established truths are put to the test and new demands and standards grow in the consciousness of opinion. The Council of State said, "I see no need to change the legislation," but he wanted to take environmental considerations into account. It is the legislation that the NVE and other case handlers in Statnet deal with and on which they have submitted their recommendations. So the council also says that the sea cable is something quite different than land cabling, here there is a significant difference. I would like an answer from the Council of State as to whether no sea cable should be preferred where possible, in any case. The Labour Party responded by rejecting the question at its national meeting. Not surprisingly, they're never at the ball first in such cases. The climate brake Jens versus Bjørnøy earlier this winter we have freshened in memory. That is why my invitation to the Council of State, which has the mandate of the Central Party meeting, is that he should get rid of yesterday's legislation. Take Børge Brende and Right’s call for the development of a new regime, which sees more widely the economy and benefits of actors. There is a high time for renewal, and the Storting should be given the opportunity to contribute to this through a major communication on the theme as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e278	The representative Asmund Kristoffersen presented the special energy situation we have in Norway with such an overwhelming amount of hydropower. That means that we have huge fluctuations in production, which in turn means that we are dependent on good exchange not only internally in the country but also across to our neighbouring country, which in turn means that we are dependent on having a good and secure wired network. We are also aware that in the last ten years there has been too little investment in a good and secure transmission system in Norway. We saw what happened in Sweden, which experienced that during one of the great winter storms many households were longer without electricity. We are interested in raising the level of investment in the network in Norway in order to avoid similar situations. We see that the challenges we face in the climate with more extreme weather make it even more important than before to focus on having safe power transmission. What is now planned from Statnett's side is extensive nature intervention all over the country, from the far north to the far south. There are large natural values that are affected by interventions that should not be trivialised. We see an involvement in that matter in the people's reaction after people's reaction, which I would say to the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen, can only be compared to the popular mobilization that was against hydropower expansion when it was at its greatest. We've seen an increase in mobilization lately. It seems that people are happy in nature, are happy in pristine nature and appreciate the landscape they live and live in. That's an engagement that we of course appreciate very much. We also see that some of the projects may affect important international values in Norway. Some of the projects have problems relating to wildrein, a species of responsibility in Norway, which we are obliged to take care of. In some situations, but not in all, local energy production and energy saving can reduce the need for new power lines. It's certainly not always true. In fact, simple physical laws say that the greater the total power generation in Norway, the greater the need for a good and secure transmission system. It's not like the more power we have, the fewer power lines. The overall context is that the greater the power generation, the more need is for a good and secure network through which that power is to flow. It is also the case that costs have been used as an argument against wiring. We also know that it's approx. 3.5 pst. of the average electricity bill of people going to the central network. We have also seen that the economic models for diet-benefit assessments have always had problems dealing with what is the value of pristine nature, and what is the value of a landscape? It's true, as the interpellant says, that in the transport sector, more has been achieved. I think the energy sector in these matters has something to learn from the transport sector in the area conflict meeting. Many land conflicts in the transport sector at the beginning of the 1990s led to a rethinking of trying to integrate environmental considerations more closely. I think it's important that we sometimes dare to say that it's not possible to find a number for what Hardangervidda or the wild train is worth. Sometimes it's important to just say that here's the consideration to be taken of. We've also been concerned with another problem related to the wiring, and that's the wiring in densely populated areas. There are few people who want to live right under a cable. Many people are concerned about whether there is an increased risk of cancer or not by living close to high voltage lines. That's also why we're going to take, which means that we can't just have one flow policy. We need more. Finally, I would say that our starting point is that we want a case-approach. We want cultural and environmental considerations to weigh heavily and that we should be better integrated into environmental costs. But we're also going to say that it's not always that cables will be the most environmentally friendly option. Cableing may also have environmental consequences, but where cableing is the most environmentally friendly option after a good diet-benefit consideration, it is our opinion that it has to happen. It is my prediction that this will happen to a greater extent than has happened so far in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e301	After listening to the interpellant, I'm a little uncertain about what is actually the main theme of the interpellation. I hear two outbursts: a criticism of a passive government not to do anything about the power crisis in central Norway, and I hear a question about the Central Party's commitment to put new powerlines into cables where the environmental costs of air conduction are high. There may be a lot to say about both of these themes. The force crisis in Middle Norway is a situation in which there is no simple or rapid response. But there's a lot of learning. The most important lesson is probably related to the handling of the Worm Lange and the expansion of the Sunndalsøra. In retrospect, we should learn that we need a change in planning and building laws, requiring a plan for energy supply in large-scale food projects. In this way we ensure that the builders also have enough power to do without risking the power supply in a whole part of the country. So I make some interesting observations when I listen to what representatives of the government and government say: it's unlikely how much harder it is to get things to do now than it was when they put the same representatives in opposition. The challenge for the future is to generate new renewable energy production, and here the Christian People's Party believes that the government is too passive. The new renewable energy support system is too poor to trigger significant new production. We expect the Government to extend the Energy Fund beyond the $20 billion they have promised. The Christian People's Party has previously suggested an increase, and I find that more people now mean the same thing, and that's good. The second theme is the introduction of new kraftliners to Middle Norway, and that is important. Already under the Bondevik II government, a work with better powerlines to Jemtland in Sweden started. But we also need new powerlines from the West – and the West. A series of new scheduled kraftlines will go through vulnerable natures, including: in Hordaland, in Sogn, and in Fjordane, and in Møre, and in Romsdal. A cable will be expensive, but this must be kept up to the cost of natural interference. The Christian People's Party believes that cableing is a very necessary measure in the most valuable and vulnerable natural areas. I therefore appreciate that this question comes up in Hardanger and in Sogn and Fjordane, at Sunnmare and at the top of Setesdal. There's serious and good reasons to sort out wires in these areas. Kraftliner cables are, in many cases, an important and good way to take care of important natural areas. In the future we have to expect more use of wiring. We now have good technology available for such solutions. It turns out that consumers understand such an extra cost. Another problem associated with powerlines is radiation from powerful grids and the consequences for the health of people who live by power fields. This is research done on, but the answer so far has not given rest to people who live in the vicinity of kraftliner. That's a lot of examples. We therefore need a more thorough debate on the use of cable in the power supply, and the Christian People's Party believes this theme should be the subject of a wide debate in a new energy message to the Stortinget. Today, there are many issues of energy supply that are up for debate. The interpellation shows that these measures are coherent. New solutions and measures are required. A new and broad communication is therefore both sensible and necessary in order to challenge new solutions that are tailored to the challenges we face today and to the challenges we face in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e335	The representative Burnde concluded his interview by saying that he invited a constructive debate around what most people experience as a serious issue. This he did after delivering one of his usual haranges against the policy of the Government. He presented this interpellation in a way that is difficult to describe as constructive and that is difficult to describe as some invited to cooperation and conversations. The debate has focused on the production of renewable electricity, and it has been pointed out that with more production we avoid building transmission systems. I'm going to be the first to admit that had it been so simple, it would have been all right, but when you use Middle Norway as an example, I'm convinced that Burnde here is speaking against better knowledge – for two reasons. Firstly, with or without a green certificate and with or without an energy fund, it would take a lot of time to get enough power to avoid repositioning the transmission system – much longer than until the autumn when the Worm Lange opens, and we get a situation that is serious on the supply side in Middle Norway. Secondly, the power supply in Møre and Romsdal – to Elnesvågen, to Aukra – hangs on one power line. And the security of supply is not improved by expanding wind power on the Fosen, which is then transported south in one power line to More and Romesdal. There will still be a need to secure the power supply through a new cable. This skips burning elegantly over. Then he talks so much about power lines that you would think it almost has not been built before in this country. It has not been long since a 420 kV line was built from Klebu to the Viking Land in connection with the extension on Sunndalsøra. If I am not completely wrong – I have to make a reservation about this – then Burnde was in the government when it happened. There were several protests in Trøndelag – Brende’s own home country – against the environmental pressures this pipeline brought with it, with a 40-metre-wide power street over valuable cultural landscapes and valuable natural areas and valuable residential areas. I did not register any significant involvement from the representative Burnde at the time to address those issues. When this interpellation is taken up, reference is made to the Central Party national meeting. There is no doubt that the decision taken at the Central Party’s national meeting was based on some of the very controversial power transmission projects that are now being launched, especially in the West. There is, of course, a clear expectation from our national meeting to both our own big group and to our own government councils of results, and that it is assessed in a different way than in the past that you can cable and take care of the natural values where necessary. There is not necessarily a question of amending the legislation. In fact, the legislation as it stands today allows us to put in cables where there is a strong environmental impact. This is the practice that needs to be changed, and it is not necessarily necessary to change a regulatory framework that already allows for a possible change of practice. Then I want to say, and it's a little linked to the cost-benefit considerations, that we know that the route Fardal – Ørskog costs between 1.5 and 2 billion kroner. Statnet says you have to multiply it by eight or ten if you're going to draw cables. So if these are correct numbers, you're talking about using a place between 10 and 15 billion dollars -- maybe even more -- to put one cable in the West. There's no one who can believe that it's a particularly sensible resource use, and it represents a lot more than 40 kroner per. person. So I'm going to end by saying that with regard to the power situation in Middle Norway, that's what the representative just before me was into, the expansion of the Worm Lange without the necessary new power generation came in, which is the cause of the situation we've been in. It was what the previous government stood for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e354	I have had great expectations for today's debate, for the national meetings in the Central Party, SV, Right and Left have pointed out a new course, a new policy, in this area. I had hoped that it had been confirmed by the Council of State, which has clearly announced that there would be a new course, a new policy, in this area. That's what's ordered. What came instead from the Council of State is, in fact, a warm defence for today's regulation and is well on the way to today's practice. He did not come up with any new control signals that would change the practice that today follows from the regulation, namely that almost all projects choose air voltage. The Council of State said that more time and resources should be spent on investigations. We don't need any more resource-intensive investigations. We need a new policy in an area where environmental costs have to be included in the accounts in a completely different way from what we have seen in the past. Several of the controversial and controversial lines are the result of a desire to electrify offshore installations. Reducing offshore emissions is once again part of the climate challenges. Line transfers related to supplies for industrial and petroleum installations, which are large Community money machines. It's also about new cables to be involved and optimising trade in power with the rest of the world, to increase profits from our hydropower resources. So great values are created, while you can risk what you're left with, is that local communities have to take the costs through major interventions in nature. I believe it is important that it is now clearly stated that there is going to be a different emphasis on the environment than before, and that it is the big community that has to take the bill as a result of this reorientation. It is important to increase power generation. This, of course, dampens the need for transmission lines. It is very regrettable that Norway now has one of the worst support systems in Europe, for example. related to wind power. It makes no sense to compare the government's new support system with what has been in force until now. That has to be compared with the green certificates that should have been in force from now on and forward. They would have represented twice as much stimulation in relation to renewable energy as the government's arrangement represents. I would like to point out that in some of the projects that have led to the debate today, the conflicts are so obvious that it must be possible to conclude as the parties have done, for example. in Hordaland. It has been established that the line to be routed from Eidfjord to Samnanger should go to the sea in Hardangerfjorden. It must be possible to reach a similar conclusion with regard to parts of the route from Fardal in Sogn to Ørskog in Sunnmøre, that alternative air voltages have to be chosen. The same appears to be true in Seatesdal, where interventions in nature are significant. I want to commend the many groups active in challenging established policies in this area. We are shaping our environmental policy by constantly renewing it in the light of new challenges. This kind of innovation is required in the area that we're facing. What is uplifting is that in areas where the Government says a certain no to good environmental solutions, it is still possible to achieve. The Prime Minister stood on the pulpit of the Hordaland Workers' Party and said that the submarine on Fedje would be covered – now the government has changed its mind and is considering lifting. The Prime Minister had no sense of having clear targets for climate change reduction – now he emerged with something that, in confusion, resembled enthusiasm at the National Labour Party meeting and spoke for it. I think it's going to happen in this area as well. It is not possible to defend the transmission of air voltage in the areas we are talking about here, because environmental costs are too high. Air voltage will also be the most widely used option in the future, but we need to be clearly informed that alternatives will be more widely used when the conflicts are significant.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e375	At first I have to admit that I thought that my reference to the Central Party national meeting decision would have been well received and viewed as a constructive recording, not least by the Council of State's own party. It is almost possible to suspect that neither the representative Borten Moe nor the councillor Enoch was particularly enthusiastic about his own party's decision. In addition, I must remind you that once you've been driving the country for almost two years, you can't just take responsibility for what's going in the right direction, for example. the reduction of unemployment. I have rarely heard the reference that those who crashed earlier have had a finger in the game compared to it. But in the case of a possible lack of energy production, only those who have previously managed are responsible. Of course that's not right. The green certificates would have resulted in twice as much support for the release of renewable energy in Norway, and the responsibility for their scrapping, which has led to 90 pst. by a good part of renewable projects were dropped, the Government must take. I believe that, in a short time, through a climate policy settlement in the United Kingdom, better renewable energy schemes will be pushed forward. It will also relieve and remove the pressure from some of these lines. It's not right, as Borten Moe says, that renewable energy cannot come as a substitute for transmission lines. The transmission lines we're talking about here are going through big processes. Many of them will not be finished until 2012 and 2013. There's a lot of water running into the ocean, there's a lot of bioenergy – trees standing and rotting – and a lot of other renewable power that can be used before that time. It has to be possible to have two thoughts in your head at once. We have to expand more renewable energy, and we have to fulfill the Prime Minister's promise from Forest last year, 1 May, when he said we have to get the gas power plant in Forest in place as soon as possible. We've heard a little about that afterwards. I had hoped, as I also said, that we could have a constructive dialogue on how we can think differently and how we can also take more care of important natural values when we are going to carry out the kind of expansion we are facing. There I have to say that the representative Heidi Sørensen was exemplary in his post. The representative stressed that in case of major natural disasters, you have to think about alternative ways, and she concluded that today it's only 3.4 pst. of the electricity bill payable for the transmission system. Now, what we're talking about is sea cabling and possibly wired in the most vulnerable areas. I have two specific questions for the Council of State. Is it true that natural interventions will also be part of the cost-benefit calculations of Statnet in the future? Will the Council of State order them to do so? And will the Council of State, although he does not want to change the regulation here today, clarify whether there is a different attitude from the Government now, that you also need to choose more sea cable and cable where it is preferable – more than what has been done so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e386	Let me start by pointing out that Børge Brende is guilty of a gross misunderstanding when he says that this government does not take responsibility for what it does. Of course, pointing out what the previous government did and did not do is not the same as not taking responsibility for what we are doing. It must be allowed to point out that we take responsibility for CO2 management at gas power plants, including those to which the previous government granted a concession without taking responsibility for CO2 management. We take responsibility for a renewable investment that is historic, and also something far from what the previous government was able to get in place. It must also be allowed to point out that the previous government built 420 kV lines in spite of local protests, for example. in Årum, as has been pointed out, did not take into account local protests. The fact that it is not possible for the current government to reverse the decisions already taken is another matter. The centre party was first out of the country by national meeting decisions. It shows that the Central Party is once again taking environmental considerations into account on important issues like this, and as I said in my two articles that I have already made, these decisions will now be followed up by making thorough assessments and focusing on environmental considerations. But I can reassure the President that I do not intend, as Gunnar Kvassheim asks, to conduct proceedings on individual projects from the Spokesman's Chair. I didn't expect there to be that kind of proposal on the table here. We have both facilitated local production and take seriously the need for increased transmission links. We have maintained the concession for Forest. Forests may start construction of gas power plants at any time. That concession has been maintained without any new demands being made, so the Prime Minister has his words in place. That concession was extended and granted in April last year, and thus it is able to build it. We've set up a historic agreement on Mongstad, which has already been pointed out. One more thing. Sea cable and cable have been shown to be better than air voltage in relation to climate change for all purposes. It is shown that the climb was without electricity for a week. Without paying more attention to it than that, I would remind you that Værøy and Røst were without electricity for almost a month because of a breach of a sea cable. So it's not like that that sea cable can be said to be safer than air voltage in given situations. We want to focus on natural action when we consider whether to put a cable or whether it is going to be air voltage. I can confirm that this government will base a different attitude than the previous government did, when we consider wiring up to air voltage, as Børge Burnde has asked. So I can reassure Børge Burnde that this government is going in the right direction from the previous one, also at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e407	Case No. So 9 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e425	The Government states in the Soria Moria Declaration: ‘The preparedness for oil protection needs to be strengthened, and we need to do more to prevent accidents from occurring and having disastrous consequences.’ Until the Fedje accident, the government had not given another penny for oil protection. A few days after Pedersen State Council took over as Minister for Fisheries, she was given the following report on her desk from the Swedish Coast Guard Agency: ‘Report — State of emergency equipment protection in relation to the recommended emergency level’. This report chose to exclude the public from the Council of State and was not released until February of this year. In the report, the Coastal Plant goes through what is necessary for allocations in the years to come in order to maintain the level of preparedness we have today, which must be defined at a minimum level. What is interesting reading is that they review what was needed in 2006 – investments of 52 million. kr – for which they establish: ‘This gap is expected to increase in the years up to 2010 if budget allocations are not substantially increased or the level of ambition is reduced.’;» A serious reminder. For 2007, the Swedish Coast Guard Agency says that an investment in new equipment is needed of at least 71 million. kr. This report is made by the State Councils except the public. The Council of State does not explain in the additional proposal she is making a few weeks after she has taken over this new information that has come to her table. Then one year goes by and the Council of State puts forward a proposal for 2007 – the current year – on oil protection. The only thing that is referred to there is that a report from the Coastal Agency has been received – nothing about the substance, just that the Council of State and the Department will now go through it. So the Storting has adopted the budget for 2006 and 2007 without realizing that there are 120 million. NOK in return for what the Coastal Works had as a professional recommendation. I must say that I am surprised that this information is not presented in the various budgetary proposals for which the Council of State is responsible. Why? Well, because they are absolutely crucial for the Storting when it comes to designing what you think is a reasonable oil protection solution in the years to come. It appears from this report that there is much to be done with regard to the upgrading of oil bilges, oil collectors, dispersants, etc. Now, the fact is, we're at 120 million. kr for losses in immediate measures for upgrading materials in the oil-protection depots. It's been fixed by the Coast Guard. We are in a situation where nothing has happened when it comes to strengthening oil protection in North Norway. When the Barents Sea Management Plan was presented, the Government stated that, with increased activity in the north, it was also necessary to strengthen oil protection in the north. Nothing has happened. It is still the case that part of the year there are two tugboats that can handle any crisis situation in North Norway. It is now reasonable for the Government to go in and consider setting up an oil-damaged animal emergency unit. It is also necessary to look at the possibilities for the creation of state-owned tugboat preparedness for the South, to work towards the creation of pilots from Lofoten and south along the whole coast, and to start work now. In the wake of the Fedje accident, the environmental organisation WWF set up with a lot of people who were involved and cleaned up. When they previously applied to the Ministry of Fisheries for support for training measures, they did not receive the support they requested. I was myself involved in that matter and tried to appeal to the Council of State. But the WWF's people came along well. It is also of interest to know if the Council of State is looking at this differently in the future. We are in a situation where oil protection in Norway is not dimensioned by the increased traffic we have seen in recent years. This has to be done. What is crucial now is that the Council of State should explain to the Government the following: Why was this report received by the Council of State at its table, with the exception of publicity? Why did it go 16 months before the Stortinget got to know – through the media – that there was no 120 million. kr on what was the professional recommendation? When the situation is such that the Storting was not aware of this, will there be an explanation of the situation in the revised national budget? Is it also the case that the Government of the revised national budget will make concrete proposals for strengthening oil protection in line with the technical recommendations? Does the Council of State think that everything is in its best order, or will the Government support the measures that I have outlined?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e463	Let me first make it clear that I share Mr. Brende's wish to focus on oil protection along our coast. I am therefore pleased with this opportunity to inform the Storting about the work we are doing in this field. The government has an active environmental policy, including the work on oil protection. The Bondevik II Government has submitted St.meld. No 14 for 2004–2005, on the safe side — maritime safety and oil protection, in January 2005. The majority dealt with the case in May 2005. So it's been two years since the Storing on a broad basis discussed the needs that exist in this area. The size of the message was, among other things, briefed that the age composition of the oil protection equipment should be reviewed. In this review there should be an assessment of lifetime and replacement needs. Furthermore, during Stortinget's treatment of the staging message, it was announced that the towing boat stand would be reviewed along the Norwegian coast. This is the background to the report on the national towing gear and the state report on oil protection equipment developed by the Coast Guard Agency, referred to in the inter-pellation. Before I go into the reports themselves, I will briefly mention some of the most important measures that have been implemented, or are under way in the field of prevention maritime safety and oil protection preparedness, because it is important that we see these responsibilities in the context. Because we have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. The primary focus must be on preventing accidents. Then we have to be prepared if the accident is first out. On the preventive side, we have the Coastal Agency's nationwide AIS network. This is a system that ensures the automatic identification of ships, including: provides the Coastal Authority with an overview of all available towing resources that can assist with an event. The traffic centre for North Norway was opened in Vardø in January 2007. This is in addition to the existing traffic centres in Brevik, Fedje, Horten, Oslo and White Island. I would also like to point out that last March Russia and Norway signed an agreement – or so-called MoU – on the establishment of a common Norwegian-Russian monitoring and information system to ensure the framework for oil transport in the north. In order to have a longer response time, ship traffic shall be moved further from country to country. Norway joined the IMO, the United Nations Maritime Organisation, in December 2006, to establish a heading 30 nautical miles from land, on the Vardø-Røst route. We will now consider establishing sailors also in the West and South. This work has been started, and the government will return to Stortinget on this matter at a later stage. A state towing boat stand has been established in North Norway. This has been done in cooperation between the Coast Guard and the Coast Guard. There is also a dialogue with different actors in the towing boat market and the oil industry. The background for this is the possibility of establishing cooperation within the towing boat stand. In addition, during the phase-in phase-in, the Coast Guard has new vessels in the Internal Coast Guard. These vessels also have towing capacity which may participate in oil protection operations. Cooperation between private and public preparedness is very important for the organisation of Norwegian oil protection preparedness. Responsibilities, roles and tasks between private, municipal and state actors are regulated. Private activities shall provide the necessary preparedness for pollution from their own activities and shall be required to take action to avert or mitigate damage and disadvantages. Municipal and state preparedness is an additional protection for those cases where the responsible polluter is not himself able to handle the pollution. Norwegian Oil Protection Association For Operator Company, NOFO, is an important part of the private preparedness. NOFO complies with the emergency response requirements of the petroleum business on behalf of the operators. The readiness of the petroleum industry for exploration and production, if any, is significant and must also be taken into account in the assessment of the total Norwegian oil protection equipment. NOFO has a lot of oil protection equipment that will also be used during a larger operation. For example, NOFO has: emergency arrangements with coastal inter-municipal response regions. So a few words about the Coastal Authority's report on the oil protection equipment on the depots. We need to continuously assess the need for preventive maritime safety and oil protection preparedness and to dimension the preparedness in line with risk assessments related to shipping. This was also the main message in the said big message that the previous government presented. The Coastal Works report reviews the need for new and reinvestment in oil protection equipment. An upgrade and enhancement plan is outlined in relation to the recommended emergency level. The equipment assessed shall be placed both on the depots established and on the designated vessels of the Coast Guard and Coast Guard. The cost of reaching the recommended level of emergency has been estimated at approximately 260 million. kr, distributed over five years. So it's completely different from what Børge Brende refers to in his interpellation. A framework increase of 11 million oil protection related to the Coastal Agency budget was made. kr in 2006. As the interpellant Burnde certainly remembers, the Bondevik government, which he himself was part of, let down the main depot of the Fedje. The government has already announced that in the revised 2007 national budget it will be proposed to re-establish a main depot there. The cost framework for this is approx. Twenty-nine million. kr. I both hope and believe that the majority of the Storing will join that proposal. In 2007 the level will be around 50 million. kr over the appropriations made by the Bondevik Government for oil protection. The national preparedness report was issued in January 2006. Towing gear will be assessed together with the other oil protection equipment and the prevention of maritime safety work in the coming years. The Government will continue its efforts to strengthen maritime safety and oil protection. Based on today’s risk assessment, oil protection preparedness is satisfactory. Based on ongoing risk assessments and the reports prepared by the Swedish Coastal Agency, the government will assess further measures in the coming years. The answer to today’s question in the interpellation is therefore that we are constantly working to improve preventive maritime safety and oil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e499	I can't see that important questions in my interpellation were answered by the Council of State, so I choose to repeat them. The Soria Moria Declaration states that there should be a strong strengthening of oil protection. In the current year, the budget is increasing by 3.5 pst. Then you have to bear in mind that as you increase by 3.5 pst., the traffic along the coast has also increased sharply. It is also the case that the management plan has opened up increased activity in the Barents Sea. So keeping up with the development required a different allocation framework. So to my main question. A few days after the Council of State took over in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast, a follow-up to the Storing Report, a report from the Coastal Agency that had been ordered, said that in 2006, 50 million were needed. kr in additional investments to keep track of the activity along the coast and to keep adequate oil protection preparedness. So they say 70 million. kr in 2007. In the budget proposal, the Council of State writes on page 125: ‘The chassis has carried out a lifetime analysis of all oil protection equipment on state depots. The analysis outlines a replacement plan for the oil protection equipment. The plan is under assessment in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs.’ So now the Council of State has been sitting for a year and a half on a report that says that already in 2006 you needed 50 million. In order to keep up with the increased activity, and for 2007, the professional judgement of the Coastal Authority was that 70 million were needed. Extra kroner. Does the Council of State consider it appropriate not to familiarise Stortinget with a report that makes these kinds of professional recommendations? Would it not have been more correct for Stortinget to explain the content of this report, and then perhaps have thought that these additions were not necessary? The Council of State now says that she thinks that oil protection is satisfactory in Norway. But if oil conservation in Norway is satisfactory today, at least I do not understand the need to say in the Soria Moria declaration that it should be strengthened. The point is that oil protection in Norway needs to be strengthened every year, because there has been an increase in transport along our coast with Russian tankers. There are 200-300 pieces passing the Finnmark coast during the year. So then I would like to answer what is now my question: Is it that the Council of State should have explained these professional recommendations in the budget proposal, and why has the Council not followed up the 120 million? kr in increased investments requested?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e513	In its report on the equipment, the coastal body has recorded a need for approx. 260 million. spent over five years in order to maintain the oil protection system at an acceptable level. So we still have time to follow the recommendations made by the Coastal Agency. The report drawn up by the Swedish Coast Guard Agency was dated in the autumn of 2005 and received in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs in January 2006. It is by no means unusual that the recordings of the various departments' budgets are not published immediately, and I am sure that we will find ample examples of whether we go back to the work of the Bondevik government, where Børge Burnde himself was a member. Then again, I would like to remind you that it was the Bondevik II Government that presented the last major communication on maritime safety and oil protection, and it is no longer more than in 2005 that the Bondevik government said that the further follow-up of oil protection needs to be assessed in the annual budgets depending on the budgetary situation. The report ‘Status of emergency equipment in relation to the recommended level of preparedness’ was completed in the autumn of 2005 and sets out the status of oil protection equipment as it was when the Bondevik administration left. So it's not that suddenly something completely new and revolutionary has happened over the course of the year and a half that has passed since then. The material has not suddenly become much older, and it is not that we suddenly have a lot of new traffic in the Barents Sea that we did not know about before.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e520	I would like to start by saying that I think the interpellant is raising an important and topical topic for debate. At the same time, I cannot help but wonder about the great eagerness of the members of the previous government have shown from the first day in opposition to seeking results from the Stoltenberg government, in all areas they themselves did not do much. Our country has a long coastline, beautiful nature and great natural wealth. We are actively using these natural assumptions. Oil extraction, fishing, shipping and tourism are all key elements of our life base. Maritime transport is important for Norway and is an environmentally friendly mode of transport. We know that the transport sector represents 30 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions. It is therefore important for the Government to facilitate a greater share of freight transport by sea and by rail. That's what we're doing. I say this to underline the importance of prioritizing both preventive maritime safety and oil protection. Our basis of life and quality of life depend on our prioritisation of both elements to prevent shipping accidents and possible oil spills, and to be able to clean up if the accident is over. Our government and the majority of the population from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have shown in many cases that we are very concerned about the environment. The same is true of oil protection. The Soria Moria Declaration, with which the Stortinget will be known as the Government's actively employed tool, states: ‘The preparedness for oil protection needs to be strengthened, and we need to do more to prevent accidents from occurring and having disastrous consequences.’ This is the Government already well in following up, as much as in the Soria Moria Declaration. The Government has announced an increased commitment to oil protection in the revised national budget, more specifically 29 million. kr for the restoration of the main depot in Fedje. Our government will thus have strengthened oil protection by approx. 50 million. kr since it took over. And once we're in the much-discussed municipality of Fedje: I think Burnde's focus on oil protection is very positive, and surprisingly offensive, because the interpellant Burnde probably remembers that the government Bondevik, a government Burnde was a member of, in January 2005 St.meld. No 14 on maritime safety and oil protection, and so on, had both insight and opportunity to grant far more than the 11 million. kr as granted by the Government of Bondevik for 2006 to strengthen oil protection. In addition, the government of Bondevik proposed the conversion of the main depot at Fedje to the middle depot, as the government of Stoltenberg now proposes to restore to the main depot. I hope and believe that the Brende and Right will nevertheless follow the government parties when the proposal for a new main depot in Fedje is discussed in Stortinget. In the field of prevention of maritime safety, it is important to strengthen the tug capacity where necessary. In the Soria Moria statement, we write that the Government will ‘ensure a good towing boat capacity with fast response time along the whole coast’. Nord-Norway has been strengthened by state initiative. Many suggest that South Africa should be considered in the next round. Access to to towing boats with sufficient capacity may be essential to avoid a major disaster caused by an engine stop or other situation in the fairway. Our most important contribution is measures that can prevent accidents. Good tug capacity is such a measure. Sailing leaders far from countries are also a good prevention measure, because an action will have a longer response time if the accident is over. The government has received approval from the IMO on the route Vardø-Røst. As the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has explained, it is now being considered to establish a leader in the West and South. The so-called AIS system was in place in 2005, a system that automatically identifies ships. This has provided a significant boost to coastal preparedness, and the Coastal Works and Traffic Centres provide a much better overview of available towboat resources. The interpellant attaches great importance to petroleum activities in the Norwegian sector in the Barents Sea, future oil extraction in Russian sea areas and in North-West Russia and increasing maritime traffic along our coast. With the new traffic centre for North Norway, which opened in Vardø this year, the monitoring of, among other things, North-enforced oil transport. We are making progress in both preventive maritime safety and oil protection. This government has ambitions to further strengthen this field, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration. I guess that's the interpellant that's satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e549	First, I must say that I am pleased that the report was published after a very strong pressure from the Progress Party. In fact, in order to get the report released by the representative Brende as an important premise for his interpellation today, it had to be completely at Prime Minister level. The Progress Party is very pleased that we are now having a debate in which we can see what we want to do to ensure that we have the best possible oil protection preparedness along our entire coast. For the Progress Party, it is important to ensure that we have a proper preparedness that is able to meet both today's demands and the demands of the future. It is also important that preparedness is good along the whole coast, because there is very high traffic along the entire Norwegian coast and not only in the north or south of the country. There is a lot of transport along the whole coast, and then it's important that you have a standby that will satisfy the whole coast. One of the last proofs that our coast is both scary and dangerous is the accident outside of Fedje, with the "MS Server" that went down. This showed with all clarity how vulnerable our preparedness is, and how important it is to have a proper preparedness to prevent pollution of both our environment and our nature in the best possible way. I want to praise the representative, Mr. Børge Burnde, for bringing up this important matter, so that you now get a real discussion in the Stortinget that is wide, and that comes into most of this with the preparedness along our coast. I must nevertheless allow myself to say that I am pleased that the Right finally realized that oil protection is important and something we have to do with, and that the representative Burnde has now got his eyes up. I noticed that he was out yesterday in Dagbladet and said that he, with the background of the report that was released in February 2007, felt that 200 million had to be spent. kr to ensure oil protection along our coast. In the context of the budgetary procedure and in the context of the review of the revised budget last year, the Progress Party proposed to increase the appropriations both in general for oil protection and, of course, in particular to restore the main stockpiles of Fedje. We proposed to increase the appropriations for replacing equipment by 100 million. NOK, to improve the capacity there, and we also proposed to grant an additional 100 million. kr to mark and correct the fairways along our coast – something that was right-wing. It's going to be a little bit special that you're so active now, half a year later, and really have the will and the belief that you can now spend 200 million. kr. It's also going to be a little special because on May 15th we're going to discuss the main depot in Fedje. There, the Progress Party has also proposed a comprehensive plan for the whole coast to see if we should have an even greater preparedness in some places and expand with more main depots. Unfortunately, there is the Progress Party on its own, but it may well be that other parties in connection with the treatment in Stortinget are also willing to join the Progress Party's proposal. I also think I have to comment a little on what the Council of State said, because she says that, based on today's safety assessment, the level of preparedness is satisfactory. Based on the report, which has been prepared by the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, I believe that this is not the point to be taken into account. In addition, when the Council of State says that it has five years to invest according to the report, the report clearly states that there is a need to take action every year, and now there is a long deficit in relation to what is said in the report. Finally, I must say that I am looking forward to the forthcoming budgetary procedures, and not least to the revised budget, which is coming soon. Then I hope that we will receive support from the Right to the Advance Party's proposal to increase the appropriations for oil protection in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e568	Like everyone else, I think it is great that former Environment Minister Børge Brende has taken up a matter that he himself was responsible for before, for debate in Stortinget. It is commendable that he points to the challenges that we face and that the Pedersen Council responded to, that we must take this seriously, that we should be better off – and we are in the process, we have done a good deal. So that's good. Otherwise, I would like to start by congratulating you on the well-received national meeting. I'm recording that the election campaign is now under way. But I hope that Fire doesn't do the same thing as Lae does in Oslo, simply feel like a victim when we rip up different things related to the role of the Right in government. It's not my intention to place the Right in a victim role position, because it's usually the ones that can most when it comes to dirty election fighting, and not the other parties. They have proved this in previous election matches. What's interesting is that in 2001, the SFT produced a report, which Børge Brende was responsible for, which said one needed 100 million. kr immediately to shore-side oil protection. Then maybe count a part of us -- SV anyway, because we suggested it -- by 100 million. In the budget to improve oil protection, however, the Council of State, the Minister for the Environment, was to withdraw responsibility for all oil protection and to give it to the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department instead of taking the responsibility that he now wants this government to take. So he had a specific report that said he should strengthen oil protection. Instead of doing something about it, he transferred responsibility to others. The second state council, like the Minister for the Environment, was to weaken oil protection in Hordaland, at Fedje, by bringing down an important oil defence agency. Then I have to say that I am a little surprised – or not really surprised, because I really want to go right out of the position all the way, and every time they get out of the position, they start to talk sense. Of course, having a strong oil protection system is important, and when Burnde says in Dagbladet that one must have 260 million. kr immediately, tell them that he is now out of government offices, but has good ideas in relation to oil protection. We'll be happy for that. But we must not forget that it was the Right and the previous government that contributed to weakening oil protection in Norway, and that is significant. This right now corrects this government. Some of the first things we do are easy to do as the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party wanted. We weren't supposed to put the depot in Fedje. Now it's the way our government, with the state council Pedersen at the head, recovers it, spends money on it, so that this important area has good oil protection. In addition, the Council of State pointed to several other measures which it has taken to combat towing boat preparedness and to its cooperation with the IMO on the Vardø-Røst route, i.e. to get ships further out. We are now taking a number of measures because we see that there is a need to have the best possible oil protection in Norway. That's why it's a little in place, I think, to rip it up against the person who was responsible for this before, and who did so little about it, when he now has a cigar guide here in the Storting that doesn't look like the pig, and reminds me that one should do the next time one comes into position – which I don't want – is actually to do the job myself and not to notify the person who has the government responsibility now, that the responsibility is here. We take that responsibility. We provide more money for oil protection. We'll make sure that there's a better towboat readiness, and we'll make sure that the oil protection equipment is better than he is today. So we're on. Keeping us right out of government, we get a good oil protection in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e585	The President is in doubt as to whether the term «cigarage which does not resemble the pig» belongs to parliamentary designations of co-representatives and will request that the representative use other terms on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e588	Good oil protection when accidents occur is particularly important for Norway as a coastal nation and as an oil producer. Without adequate oil protection, many people will feel that we are gambling with nature and livelihoods on the coast. This is a statement that I hear from a lot of people, and I'm very much in agreement with. The Christian People's Party has always placed great emphasis on oil protection. It has been very important for us when we have developed oil and gas policy, for example. in the Barents Sea. It has also been an important consideration in the past when oil companies spread along the Norwegian coast. In addition to the oil industry on our base, increasing coastal shipping is a development that also requires increased preparedness. Increased transport of oil from the Russian sector in the Barents Sea will require more offensive oil protection. From before we have the oil refinery at Mongstad in Hordaland. This is one of the most busy ports in northern Europe, with traffic out and into Mongstad, combined with a densely crossing coastal traffic. Now we see that shipwreck can cause great damage to nature. In winter, I experienced the "Server" uluk outside of Fedje in the seal of Mongstad. This was a scary demonstration, because compared to the consequences of a disaster with one of the fullest oil tanks, "Server" was the opportunity to look at it as a very small emission. All this activity requires a good organisation of oil protection. Then we talk about enough equipment, about top modern equipment and about well-trained and drilled crews with both experience and competence. It's about broad competence and people who can both deal with acute situations, prevent emissions and rock seabirds and animals and others that are hit by oil spills. Also in the Christian People's Party, we have noticed the report from the Coastal Agency on missing promises. There will always be a balance between the resources requested for oil protection and an assessment of the adequacy of oil protection. This balance is made by both government and government when we adopt the budget for government activity. From the Storting, it's very important that the Government gives us the information we need to make good decisions. That is why the Coastal Agency report is important to us in the budgetary management that we are now facing. In any case, the report does not provide a reason for complacency — to put it that way. Driving savings campaigns in the oil protection sector can be an expensive exercise, both economically and environmentally. Then I thought it was nice that the Council of State followed up what had been the practice of the Council of State, to talk at least as much about the policy of the Bondevik II government as about its own policy. It's useful to have good role models. We are pleased that the Council of State confirms that the main deposit in Fedje will be placed in the revised national budget. In fact, the representative Langeland says that it was something of the first government – and it is interesting to note, after two years, that it was one of the first government. We take note of that. Furthermore, we expect the Government to provide an assessment of the entire report in the context of the revised national budget. For the Christian People's Party, security for man and material values, for nature, for bird and animal life, will be especially important. Therefore, we need a well-organised oil protection system. We need the most modern equipment available. In short, oil protection must be good, and it must provide security for life on our harsh and harsh coasts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e611	First, thank you to the interpellant Burnde for putting a very important topic on the agenda. Ship traffic along the Norwegian coast has increased significantly in recent years, and we know that it will increase even more as a result of increased petroleum activity in the Norwegian sector in the Barents Sea and future oil extraction in Russian sea areas and in North-West Russia. In addition, the plans for a transport corridor between China and the United States via Narvik, the so-called NEW Corridor, will definitely increase ship traffic along our shores. Oil and other dangerous cargo cargoes may have serious environmental consequences in the event of accidents and losses. The left will therefore build an increased preparedness for such accidents and potential environmental disasters, including: large seagoing tugboats are in continuous coastal preparedness. Our marine areas are not only important for Norway but also important on an international scale in a long-term, sustainable perspective in order to ensure important natural resources. Therefore, both national and international efforts are required to ensure the environment in these areas. There is no doubt that enhanced oil protection throughout the coast will be essential to achieve this. The recent ‘Server’ cargo ship, which has been mentioned by several, that crashed outside of Fedje, is a reminder of the serious consequences that dense maritime traffic along our shoreline may have in the event of a loss and grounding if the circumstances are unfortunate. This time it was an empty cargo ship, where only its own fuel carried by the ship reached the sea and the coastline. Even this small discharge resulted in a clean-up that will take months and cost tens of millions of kroner. The left is concerned about the government's lack of commitment to oil protection on a broad front. I would like to take this opportunity to highlight the importance of voluntary efforts in the field of acute pollution. Experience with large oil protection operations shows that the number of hands at work determines whether and how fast oil damage in the coastal zone can be limited. The left is therefore amazed that the Government has not shown the willingness to support the World Wildlife Fund project ‘Clean Coast!’, which is an example of an important measure to ensure funding. The left has proposed earmarked appropriations for the State budget. Government parties have said no. As a representative of West Agder, I would like to take this opportunity to also draw attention to the arable land and the challenges facing this part of the country. The background is that people in Agder and employees in the Coastal Plant are concerned. There is very dense ship traffic in Skagerrak, with an average of 40 cargo ships and 18 tankers every day. In fact, there are far more tankers than, for example: along the Finnmark coast. Increased traffic in ships increases the risk of accidents and oil pollution. I record that despite this, the government is taking a very good time to improve oil protection: Two years after the fall of the Fjord Champion in the Søgne Archipelago, there is no daily tugboat in place to serve the agder coast.The study on coastal preparedness has been completed for over a year, but little has happened in its keel water. The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has stated that national preparedness must be based as much as possible on existing available resources. It was mentioned in a recent Questionnaire. The Minister has referred to a proposal from the Coastal Works to hire a tow ship by the south coast and that the Coastal Works’ traffic centres monitor all shipping operations by means of automatic identification of ships — so-called AIS. In addition, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast has asked the Coastal Directorate to start the work of establishing a southerly sailing leader along the West and South. In addition, the defence has stationed the vessel «Norway» covering the Skagerrak area. The ship is also equipped with oil protection equipment on board. The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has stated that the Government will return to Stortingen on the need for further action in the field of oil protection at a later stage, including the assessment of additional towing boat preparedness on the south coast. I do not think this is sufficient, given the risk of shipwrecks with subsequent oil spills off the meadow coast. I would therefore urge the Government to take a more offensive view of this and to announce that it will make a fresh effort on next year's budget to strengthen both the general oil protection equipment along the coast and the towing boat stand on the coast. Now it is the South that must be given priority. I believe this is an urgent matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e651	Interpellant, Burnde, addresses a problem that occupies the whole coast. We will feel safe – confident that the authorities are doing what they can to prevent accidents, and ensure that in the event of an accident, everything that can be done will be done. A few years ago, Brande himself put in government, and from North Norway, they were called for involvement in this matter. Only now, one year later, we'll see that. The red-green government shows that it takes seriously the danger signals pointed out by the people of Northern Norway. When the fully loaded Russian cargo ship ‘Moscow’ had an engine failure outside of North Cape under the previous government, the nearest tugboat was 14 hours away. Fortunately, the machinery was started, and the accident was averted. But the incident shook the population along the coast, and the need for tugs turned out to be repressive. Now it is established state towing boat stand, and it is working together with the part of the industry that is required to keep tugboats themselves. The extraction of oil on the Russian side of the Barents Sea has started several years ago. For the coast, it has been important to establish a separate shipping route for the transport of oil along the Norwegian coast and to monitor it. The government has done a good job through international bodies to establish the route of navigation and to extend it to 30 nautical miles, not 4 nautical miles, which was the original territorial waters. Increased Russian petroleum activity and the transport of oil along the coast require close cooperation with the Russian authorities. The Red-Green Government has concluded a cooperation agreement with the Russian authorities on coastal surveillance, and we are proud of that. I hope that the previous government parties have turned around and will support the red-green government when it proposes to restore the main depot in Fedje. I think it is reassuring, when the minister is here, to hear that the government has such a focus and takes responsibility in this very important matter of the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e664	The size of ships carrying oil and gas along our coast reaches 200,000 tonnes. When Prestige sank in the Bay of Biscay, this was a boat with a size of 77 000 tonnes. ‘Prestige’ broke down in two and stood for major, serious environmental damage. We know that even if we take all precautions, such an accident can happen off our own coast. In order to be cleaned up after ‘Prestige’, efforts were required by nearly 120,000 people over a long period of time, in a climate far more favourable than in Norway — or in North Norway. Where do you think you're going to bring 120 000 people to clean up what you call a proper oil protection solution? With this in mind, the Progress Party has put forward proposals to strengthen it by means of several ropeboats, properly sized rescue boats and a shorter walk to a possible seafarer. Overall, the Progress Party has proposed 225 million. kr in addition to that adopted by the Storting. It is therefore surprising that an offensive former Minister for the Environment of the Right and today's Minister for Fisheries, both of whom have contributed nothing but voting down our proposals, has expressed such a positive opinion on our proposals today. Then there can be hope that one day our proposals can be adopted. One thing is that Norway needs to strengthen its national oil preparedness in all areas. We also need cross-sectoral cooperation with Russia, Iceland and other nations in monitoring, dialogue, warning systems and cross-border cooperation across countries in a practical everyday life, which needs to be followed up through international exercises that enable us to coordinate and cooperate effectively. Because the area we're talking about is enormous, and the scenario is horrifying if the accident should happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e673	Increased oil activity in the north in combination with vulnerable nature requires strict precautions and high-quality oil protection. Both municipal and county politicians in North Norway have a clear expectation that the Government will make a solid state contribution to building an oil defence tool of the highest class, both in terms of equipment and in terms of competence to deal with an emission situation if the accident should first be out. Oil tanks off the North Norwegian coast are constantly increasing in number, and the Fedje disaster is a reminder of the importance of high preparedness and adequate equipment to minimise natural damage in the event of the accident. Norway’s Fire School in Tjeldsund, Northland, developed in 2006 vocational plans for training personnel for cleaning up the beach zone following an oil disaster. It was therefore very positive when in February this year the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast followed up giving the fire department a grant of one million kroner for a start-up package of equipment, so that the new training of team leaders and damage managers could get started. This is a good start, but what about the continuation? Although the responsibility for oil protection is three-fold, between the State, the municipalities and industry, there must be reason to expect the State to take overall responsibility in this area, and in particular in terms of training. However, the equipment of Norway’s Fire School is of little use if the fire school is not now secured for the course itself beyond 2007, so that this training can be established as a permanent offer to municipal personnel and to civil defence, which is another relevant target group, with the tasks assigned to it. A prerequisite for Norway's fire school in Tjeldsund to be able to recruit and maintain good teaching skills is that the activity is predictable. In response to the inter-pellant, the Council of State stressed the importance of focusing on prevention. In this context, I believe that training is central. Therefore, the State should now also commit itself by means of grants for the operation of oil-protection training courses in order to contribute to the establishment of a competent training body of instructors. With this in mind, I would like to ask the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs here today what she and the government will actually do to ensure that this course offer becomes a permanent offer, and that the Fire School gets the necessary predictability in its planning, and to ensure quality training in oil protection. I hope the Council of State can agree with me that today's situation, where oil protection training does not know whether it has operational resources from one year to another, is an unsustainable situation, given the importance of this task in ensuring that coastal oil protection is real and more than words in large-scale documents. In 2006, the Harstad Knowledge Park mobilised expertise environments, oil companies and supply industries in the north to cooperate on a pre-project, competence development oil protection. This is an expression of the high level of oil protection on the political agenda, but also of the desire to further develop the local supplier industry. Enterprises such as NorLense at Melbu and NOFI in Tromsø are both recognised suppliers of oil protection equipment, nationally and internationally. Increased activity in the north will cause increased ring-effects in the north, says the Government. I take it as a matter of course that this also includes oil protection measures, and I therefore welcome the fact that the Government is facilitating the oil protection industry in the north to develop new products that are even better adapted to the challenges of petroleum activities in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e694	The interpellant addresses important issues tonight. There's no doubt about it. The interpellant concluded its interpellation that we need to have a readiness that will be ready to deal with both today's and next year's needs, and that is not petty. We need to have a long term in what we're doing, and we need to know what we're doing both now and in the future. Therefore, as the Council of State also said in its response to the interpellant, it is important to dimension the preparedness in line with the risk assessments related to ship traffic. And you have to do that at all times – you have to do risk assessments. Risk assessments are not merely to establish depots. It is also important, and it must be done, cf. what the state council said about what's going to come to Fedje. But you also have to see it in a broader perspective: what is in front of us with what is happening on a Norwegian base, and what is happening along the coast – and the increased traffic? That is why this traffic centre is now being established in North Norway, in Vardø. It's just to have the surveillance at an early stage, when we see what's now happening in the Barents Sea and in the North Region, so we're now on the verge of that situation as well. I would like to add that we must not ignore the fact that maritime transport is also a very important environmentally friendly means of transport, which will undoubtedly have greater dimensions in the future. Then we must be prepared in that area as well. We also need to dimension these things in an environmental perspective – we need to see the social structure as a whole when we dimension these things. Then a lot of attention is paid to the costs, and in what is the Coastal Agency's recommendation, it appears that it has major economic aspects. But we're going to take that promise there as well. That's why the government has now started with the gradual escalation, and that's why we increased the framework conditions in 2006 by 11 million. NOK, and we're increasing in 2007 by new SEK 11 million. kr. We're building a rock here, too. The Soria Moria declaration will not be put in place in one day, but in line with what we have said, we will have a standby and a coast that we can rely on – preparedness and environmental. The establishment of the automatic identification rules that took place in January is also of particular importance. It is very important that we have both what the ships have as cargo, etc., the danger of it, and that we dimension in advance also in this area and point out the fairways of these ships, the areas in which they are going to go, so that we have the readiness. But I would also say, as a little parentheses to this, that we can never ignore human failure. Human judgements must also be made when the sea is extremely troubled. Significant steps have also been taken in the international sector. The IMO – as our December 2006 decision applied – was a hot topic when we had the oil business in the northern regions up to debate here in the Stortinget. It was also the sailing routes here that were important. That was the theme at the time. The government took hold of it, as it had already commanded, and entered into the IMO Maritime Organisation’s rules, and it is now being established from the summer of 2007. There have been many discussions about the tug capacity in North Norway. Now it's in place. Agreements have been concluded. It will also provide a very important sense of security along the coast and for the ships that are there. We know that when the danger arises, we also have a readiness here, and we have a certainty of that. I want to say it so that everything belongs together, as others have said before me. But it is important, at the end of the day, to review what I started with, that the dimensioning of preparedness must be seen in line with the risk assessments in many fields, including the infrastructure that we have in our society. That's where we think we've gotten a piece. We're going to get further, but we feel like we're now on track of what we've been saying, and we're going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e711	I would like to thank the representative Mr. Børge Brende for bringing up a very important debate in Stortinget. Strengthening of oil protection equipment is important and necessary. It's a theme that covers the whole of North Norway, and especially North Norway, a part of the country that lives by the sea, and where people live by the sea, a sea that's still boiling. This theme takes SV and it takes up the Government. I am very pleased that the representative Burnde is taking up this topic, since the representative knows this field very well. The representative Brende was the State Council responsible for oil protection during the period 2001–03. In 2001, the SFT presented a plan that concluded that 100 million were needed. kr for immediate action within this field. I'm glad that Burne now apparently has great commitment to safety along the coast, yes, apparently almost as much commitment as that SV has. We need to focus on prevention, because when accidents occur, it is important that ships and equipment are quickly in place and prevent the disaster from becoming complete. We know that we can't bet on being good every time. SV is very pleased that the red-green government has established sailing routes along the coast in the north to the south of Lofoten. These are highly vulnerable areas, and it is a very important measure. The government has increased the budget in terms of preparedness. This is a big victory for SV, and the government will now bet on it. SV wishes, inter alia: that the response time shall be 6-12 hours everywhere. We have to step up the stakes on deposits, which is what this government is doing. I am very pleased with the answers of the Council of State, Helga Pedersen, to the questions and challenges of the inter-pellant. The government is doing a lot of good work. The fact that the Council of State also emphasises that further action will be considered in the future is very important. One of the important measures that this government must consider to be put in place is the ‘Barents Sea on screen’, a satellite monitoring system which has an overview of the sea areas and which will record boats within these sea areas. It will be important to see if boats are out of course, or if boats are on the right course. It will be important to be able to see any environmental crime taking place in our marine areas. I myself have visited and seen boats that have washed their tanks, because you do not have a good enough registration system for what is happening in our marine areas. It is our duty to ensure that oil protection is as good as possible. I am very happy that the Government is on the right course in this matter as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e730	I would like to thank the representative Mr. Børge Burnde for focusing on a very important topic. There is no doubt that the increased activity in the Barents Sea, coupled with increasing coastal shipping, poses new and major challenges to Norwegian oil protection. The loss of the ‘MS Server’ outside of Fedje in winter was a visible evidence of this. ‘Server’ was a cargo ship with ‘only’ 300 tonnes of bunker oil on board. Finnland coasts are regularly operated by increasing oil tankers with around 200000 tonnes of crude oil. In Finnmark Dagblad on 26 April we are informed: ‘The amount of Russian oil transported along the Finnish coast may triple as early as this year to around 30 million tonnes. Further growth is expected in the years to come.» And on the other hand, «In 3-5 years, the volume is likely to be closer to 50 million tonnes than 30 million.» It appears in a report prepared by the Barents Secretariat. After the Fedje accident this winter, I took up with the working Minister for Fisheries and Coast the question whether he thought that the preparedness we have along the Finnmark coast today is good enough if a large oil tanker were to crash in winter storms, blasts and dark times. The answer I then received was that he was satisfied with the state of things. But with the new information that has now come from the Coastal Works, we have a great job to do in order to have a sound preparedness in the future that is dimensioned by the current risk we are facing. The challenges in the north are many in this context. Large distances with a very scattered and sparse population, a tough climate with cold and dark times, capacity constraints in infrastructure such as the telecommunications and mobile networks and resource scarcity will each have an impact on our ability to deal with a major incident. If we in Norway are hit by an accident similar to ‘Exxon Valdez’, it will yield extensive oil spills, at worst from Nordkapp and down to Brønnøysund. In the clean-up following the Prestige accident off the Spanish coast in 2002, 120000 persons participated. In Finnmark today there are approx. 73 000, large and small. The thoughts that are currently operating on our territory are up to ten times greater than the 'Prestige' was. The rescue exercise ‘Barents Rescue 2005’ made it clear that the defence participation with equipment and crew was absolutely essential for the exercise to be completed at all. Any rescue operation depends entirely on the presence and operation of these resources at all times in order to limit the extent of any oil disaster. In addition to our own resources, we also rely on all the help we can get from our neighbours in the north-east, Russia, Finland and Sweden. We now need a risk and vulnerability analysis that can provide us with guidelines on prevention preparedness work in the future. Furthermore, we still need a strong presence of the Defence in the northern regions. Civil-military cooperation must continue. Cooperation between the countries of the Barents region needs to be continued and reinforced, and infrastructure needs to be expanded and improved. Oil lentils from the 1980s do not keep track. Exercises in waves of about 0 meters show that the lenses stick under the surface as soon as they are towed. Research institutions in the north now need to develop new technologies and new types of lenses, and these must again be tested outside Vardø and Honningsvåg in extreme weather. At all levels, decision-making authorities with sufficient resources located in close proximity to where serious incidents may occur are now needed. I am, among other things, concerned about the competence of cold and dark operations. In other words, people who have the right situation understanding, training and training are needed. Close cooperation between local, regional, national and international actors is therefore very important in the north. I would also like to stress that those companies, companies or oil companies, which are going to operate off our coast, also have a significant responsibility for and a social obligation to protect the environment and our resources. Therefore, in cooperation with the authorities, all parties involved must now ensure optimal preventive activity. Nor should there be any doubt as to who is responsible for monitoring the proper conduct of operations and for ensuring preparedness and crisis management.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e764	It is true that if the worst happened here, of course, it would have disastrous consequences. We've seen a lot of examples of that up through history. It is also the case that the industry, the activity, that triggers this threat, is an industry that throws off violently, meaning that the Norwegian state has adventurous revenues both in the short and long term. It is therefore, of course, the focus of an oil-protection stand and the activity being carried out must be carried out within a sound and sound framework. Of course, it is important to have oil protection. Like most of the others I've heard here, I think it's good that this is being taken up. Of course, oil protection must be proportionate to the challenges you face at all times, and the activity being carried out must be conducted within a sound framework. Some of us are happy with the steps that have already been taken and that have been explained here. I'd say you're a good piece on the way. Our goal is laid down in the Government Declaration. I want to say that I am looking forward to the completion of the goals that we have set ourselves, and that the escalation that is underway will be continued. So, of course, the main focus is on cleaning up after the accident has happened. The main focus must be on preventing the disaster from occurring. Important measures have already been taken. And then I would like to point out the management plan for the northern regions, as the government announced last year, which is just balancing the considerations between nature and oil and gas extraction. Some of us believe that the best way to secure vulnerable natural areas against oil spills is actually not drilling, not actually extracting oil in these areas. I'll be careful with these considerations. I stress the importance of the question, and I stress the fact that the revenues we have from these activities make this a priority for the years to come, and that the Central Party is looking forward to the ongoing escalation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e786	For the sake of order, I would like to remind the representative, Hallgeir Langeland, that there was a total accumulation that, following strong professional recommendations, chose to gather all oil protection equipment at the Coastal Plant. And the representative of Langeland sat here in the Chamber and voted in favour of it. I also record that when the representative Langeland knows about SFT's assessments related to oil protection, it is because they were never kept secret. The Storting got to know them and could debate it. That's the way it should be. Otherwise, I think that the previous government actually had a good hand on oil protection in Norway. The first global marine environmental report in the world was presented by the previous government. There the idea of new sailing leaders was established. We also expanded the territorial waters so that you could get the boats out of the rocks. The previous government also established increased tug capacity by three, to two boats in North Norway. So I noticed what the representative Lena Jensen said, which was very eager in the previous period, when it was about oil protection. She got to say that there is a big victory with the increased investment in oil protection that has been under this government – a big victory. Yes, then I must say that SV is satisfied with little. According to the Journal of January 15 this year, Bellona writes: ‘In the wake of the Barents Sea Management Plan, a standby effort was expected. Nevertheless, there was no investment in oil protection exercises in the autumn budget.» So the WWF, the environmental organisation, has now presented an overall assessment of the government's efforts on the oil protection side – and now I'm not quoting. It's not the right that's made this report, it's the WWF. Until accidentally with «Server», the red-green government has not given more crowns for oil protection than its predecessors. This is in stark contrast to what the Government proclaimed in the Soria Moria Declaration. And then SV says they're very satisfied with the increase. It's a paradox. What is worse is that the Council of State does not follow up on the technical recommendations that lie there. In January 2006, the Coastal Agency presented the report National Towing Boat Preparedness, proposing the creation of State Towing Boat Preparedness several locations along the coast – 350 million. kr. Now you're missing 350 million. kr for professional reasons to follow up increased towing boat capacity. There's 120 million missing. kr i lag only in 2006-2007 for the purpose of upgrading oil lenses. In total, there are half a billion dollars, and the Council of State is going to say in Stortinget that it is a satisfactory oil protection solution. It is the Workers' Party which strengthened this strongly in the last period. I have three questions for the Prime Minister, no to the Council of State – it may be a little early to say Prime Minister. I might also have a little bit of time for these questions, so I'm gathering them together. The question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State regret that she did not inform the Storting of the missing appropriations, and when will this be delayed by nearly half a billion dollars from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e811	First, I would like to thank you for your commitment to oil protection. The government has provided policies and appropriations for the Soria Moria Declaration in the field by area. Some examples of this are the promises we have made with regard to the local economy, transportation and getting more hands in care. We have now started work on strengthening oil protection, and once again I just want to remind you that this year's level of appropriations, after the revised budget, will be 50 million. kr over what was the level of the Bondevik government. We will continue this work together with the preventive maritime safety work. There are several individual projects mentioned here from the Chair, and I am not going to deal with the individual projects here – just be careful to note that many initiatives along the coast are interesting and can complement what already exists before of preparedness and competence. I would like to reiterate that, based on today's risk assessment, oil protection is satisfactory. Based on ongoing risk assessments and the reports prepared by the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, the Government will consider additional measures in the coming years, so that we have a good oil protection preparedness here in the country. When the revised national budget is presented to the Stortinget, the representative Børge Burnde then has the opportunity to vote for the allocation to the main deposit in Fedje, so that we can restore the depot that he himself contributed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e820	The debate on substance is closed. So 10 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e826	The size should now vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e834	During the debate, Mr Solholm put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the financial and governance situation of regional health enterprises, including the balance sheet and opening balance sheet ratio, and to present its own case to the Storting as soon as possible and at the latest by the end of 2007.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e890	There is no voting theme in cases No. 4-6.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e913	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Fostervold, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2 and 3, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right; First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the repeal of the law on concession by acquisition of real estate [[Concession Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e937	Proposal No. 2, from the right, says: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote legislative amendments to remove the obligation to live and to regulate the prices of agricultural property.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e967	There is no voting theme in cases No. Nine and ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08-2.ana.ud311e1061	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
