ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e56	The law we are now dealing with is primarily a simplification and modernisation of customs law. It will make the law more accessible to the public, to the customs and tax haven itself and to other public bodies. It's a whole committee happy about it. There are two things that are mentioned by a minority in the committee. The first is that the Progress Party and the Right believe that customs belong to the past and that the work for a global free trade agreement must be intensified. Until that objective is achieved, Norway needs to step up its efforts to conclude bilateral free trade agreements far more actively than today. It is also a pity that no proceeds have been submitted either in this case or in the budget related to the increased use of customs freedom. In the second case, there is a minority, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, who ask that the customs office be given the necessary authority to hold back suspected, stop control objects and have access to use blue light and to derogate from the Road Traffic Act. The Directorate of Road has previously recommended the Customs and Charges Directorate to register the vehicle as a call-out vehicle. They will then be given the necessary powers without this making it necessary to initiate time-consuming work on amendments to the law and regulations. In addition, the registration as a call-out vehicle will allow the use of blue lights to signal the stoppage of the control object. It is used, inter alia: in Sweden, Finland, Germany and Switzerland with only good experience. This is why this minority is asking the Government to assess the necessary legislative and regulatory changes so that the customs service can use blue light during the call to stop control objects. I am referring here to the proposal to which the Right is a co-rapporteur and to which it has been referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e71	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has drawn up the proposal he himself referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e74	The rapporteur has presented the position of the Committee of Finance in an orderly and straightforward manner, with a unanimous committee agreeing with the Government's proposal for the Customs and Commodity Code. I will come back later to some of the joint comments and a proposal that a constellation was made from the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have, and also a note from the Progress Party and the Right. The finance committee was recently visiting the customs and tax haven, and I have to say that it was very useful to clarify the diverse tasks for which the agency is responsible. Not least, it was helpful to hear the strategic thinking they have in relation to the complex tasks and challenges they face in the future. In my opinion, the changes that are now taking place are a cause of joy in relation to today's 1966 customs office in terms of cleaning up an obsolete legal structure. A much wiser man than me said that this is part of making Norway easier. Yeah, that's exactly what this is. The changes made are also a consumer matter, as the new law becomes more accessible to the public. Obligations of international law are formally implemented and, not least, this law makes difficult legislation available. It just makes it easier to figure out. Administrative practices are formalised and the law provides a good overview of rights and obligations. The new customs law makes it easier not least for business. The law is a strong simplification and not least a strong modernisation, which will benefit industry in particular. The various provisions currently in force, partly in the Customs Act, partly in the regulations and partly in the Parliamentary Decision on customs duties and regulations adopted on the basis of such decisions, are now brought together in a new law. It is also positive that a common code is being worked on, which is supposed to come into force at the same time as the new Customs Code. Customs legislation governs large flows of money, in particular through the income of the country from the value added tax and excise duties. Customs duties and duties are therefore only part of the larger whole of customs legislation. There is no doubt that professional users of customs legislation, both export and import, will benefit greatly from more systematic regulation, built to make the law more accessible. Simplification will also increase the effectiveness of public authorities' efforts to enforce legislation and, in particular, ensure the correct fixing of customs duties and other charges on imports and exports. I am somewhat surprised that the Progress Party and the Right – I do not want to say that they say that customs is customs, that is to go too far – in a way says that customs is being imposed, through the comment that customs belongs to the past. I see that the Progress Party in its comments and proposals together with the Right and Christian People's Party is concerned that the Customs Service does not have sufficient authority to hold back suspected, stop control objects, use blue light and derogate from the Road Traffic Act. They also have their own proposal on this, which was referred to by the rapporteur. On the part of the government parties, we would point out that we do not have sufficient grounds today to say that there is a need for extended powers, among other things. to call-out status. A better statistical base material is considered by the Ministry as necessary. Furthermore, a dialogue and process towards the Directorate of Police on this issue may be necessary. Experience with other measures should, in our opinion, be assessed before any further work is done on call-out status issues. Otherwise, I'm not getting it all rhyme when it comes to the zeal of the Progress Party after improving the action side. The Progress Party has entered the budget for next year to cut the customs and levy budget by a total of 220 million. NOK, which we have been through in Stortinget today. This can only mean a strong reduction in border control, with, for example, more drugs, weapons and dangerous food entering the country. It is no good on the one hand to be concerned that we do not have a credible border control when one simultaneously takes away the money that is going to. Effective border control requires human resources. At least 65 pst. expenditure of the department is precisely paid for human resources. The community around us is changing rapidly, and customs duties are increasing both in volume and not least in complexity. Finally, I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e110	It is true that when the Progress Party has promoted its amendments in the budget, the Progress Party has consistently looked at opportunities for efficiency in a number of state agencies and in the state bureaucracy, just as all Norwegian enterprises each year actually have to go through and see if resources are used properly, if resources are used sensibly. The focus of the Progress Party is that the resources allocated, for example: the customs and tax haven, to a much greater extent, is used to combat cross-border crime in terms of smuggling, etc., rather than using a lot of resources on paperwork, on bureaucratic exercises. Our policies are also linked. In fact, when we propose to remove customs, when we propose to make things easier, it also means that fewer people can sit and work with the kind of paperwork associated with that kind of task. Rather, they can spend their time on what the customs office should be best at, namely to be with and fight crime along our borders. That is the background to our budgetary priorities in terms of the customs and levy rate, and nothing else, no matter what the Workers' Party – through more articles both in the Stortinget and in Odelstinget today – has claimed. So a question to the representative Jakobsen of the Workers' Party, to which he obviously must not answer if he does not want to, because I have not taken a line. I interpreted it this way, according to what he said, that when it came to our proposal to look at some new powers for the customs office, the Workers' Party and the Government's fraction were positive to it, but they wanted it, among other things. a police assessment, etc., before entering into a dialogue. I hope that this is how to perceive that even if the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are voted down today, one will look constructively at this. This is something the customs department itself has said that they want, to get that kind of authority. This will undoubtedly also be resource-saving. The tariff rate may, in a number of areas, avoid some of the bureaucratic rules in force. I hope that signal from Alf E. Jakobsen was on behalf of the government fraction, and that you actually go in and look closely at this issue, so that we can put the customs office even better in a position to do its job of combating cross-border crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e121	First of all, it is essentially a matter of simplifying and modernising a law, to which the Committee unanimously subscribes, which is fundamentally good, and to which we need to do in many more areas in our extensive legislative regulation of this society. I would like to endorse what the rapporteur says about it on behalf of the whole committee. Then I would like to comment on the two issues raised in the debate on this matter. One is the proposal from a minority, from the opposition, and the left is not part of the opposition's minority proposals here. I would like to justify that, as it is not done in the setting. The principle approach I want to express is a very general skepticism of a development in which police authorities are given to other agencies, from other parts of society. For me, it is a fundamental principle in a state of law that those who are to be allowed to break the law to take offenders, and who are to be allowed to use power, if necessary physical power, towards citizens, are to be state police in a country that is under democratic scrutiny and control. I'm fundamentally skeptical that a pragmatic approach will allow others to do things, perhaps because of a lack of resources in the police. Now I don't think our great officials in the customs department will be the ones who will abuse or abuse in that way. Nevertheless, there is a fundamental limit. We were here from the Storting almost witnessed a cruel assault right out in the street here yesterday, because of the very same principal things. We saw elements of a state of weight that frighten me. So that's my reason for being very careful to start distributing police services to others outside the police. I would rather be on the heels to make sure that the police will be able to do the important job they are going to do. So the issue of this debate arises: when we simplify and modernise and make the law on customs more accessible, we also have a task ahead of us to do something about customs, that is. to simplify a comprehensive phenomenon in our society. I think that is also important. The previous government terminated a good deal of customs duties that were quite meaningless. It will be almost a small revision number if you start reading all the customs rates we have in many areas in Norway. An example is spare parts for umbrellas, which are subject to some ear in customs and which create a lot of work. It is quite clear that there is a bit of Hurra Norway over many of the Norwegian customs duties. The reason why there may not have been an even greater reorganization of much of this is that we want this to go backwards in the WTO negotiations that are now coming, where we will be required to remove percentages of total customs duties, the amount of customs duties, etc. Therefore, some of these historical anachronisms are maintained in terms of customs duties. But from what I think might not be the big controversy, to write with the broad pen that the Advance Party and the Right do here, that customs belong to the past, will definitely not I join. Because in key areas, customs will continue to be an important instrument for making global trade more fair. One example is how we emphasise that customs preferences to the poorest countries should be an important tool. And you can't have that if customs belong to the past and not to the future. You cannot allow the poorest countries to get any benefits at the expense of countries that are richer. For example, it will. If we do not have customs preferences, which we have today, to the poorest countries in Africa, the poorest countries in Africa will not have the opportunity to sell their food to Norway. Then countries like Uruguay, Brazil and Argentina would only compete completely away. So once again, before we get to the point that competitiveness and prosperity are more evenly beneficial among the countries of the world, probably customs will still belong to the future, but it can probably be targeted and significantly simplified.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e132	To the question raised by the representative Ulf Leirstein, I would like to clarify at the outset that this is a technical revision of customs legislation. In connection with that work, the question of call-out status has not been raised. It is true that there has been a dialogue between the Directorate of Customs and Fees and the Ministry of Finance on the use of different instruments, where, as far as I am aware, the Department has pointed out that a thorough analysis of the need for such an instrument will be necessary. This means that no decision has been made on it. There is also a desire to go through some basic material and to have a dialogue with the Police Directorate to get their views on such a question. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has clarified that they will look at the experience of other measures before further consideration. Otherwise, there was a fundamental question raised by Mr. Left's representative Lars Sponheim. In the first place, you're supposed to be watering out the problems that the police have. I think that's a guiding principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e141	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e157	The Committee now puts forward its position on the amendment of the State Pension Fund Act. The majority of the Committee endorses the proposal of the Government to amend the definition of the so-called net financial transactions in Section 3 of the Act so as to extend the definition to the purchase of shares in the merged company StatoilHydro AS. This proposal results from the merger between the companies Statoil and Norsk Hydro and from the Government's intention to purchase from the merged company. As I said, the majority of the Committee endorses this. I expect that to the extent that they don't think I argue enough for their view, they will complement it. I want to focus on the views of the Right and Minority that go against. In 2001, the Stortinget treated ownership in what was then Statoil. In the majority position, Innst. S. No 198 for 2000-2001 it is called by a large majority, in which the party of today's government, the Workers' Party, is engaged, among other things. believes that the objective of building up the petroleum competence in Norway has been achieved. Furthermore, it was considered that state ownership was not necessary to further develop professional competence, and that the economic and governance reasons for principal ownership were no longer relevant. Then came the gold grains themselves, and then I quote: ‘Partly because excessive State ownership can reduce incentives for increased value creation on the base, and partly because management of the business can be better ensured through instruments other than preferential ownership in companies. In addition, the State may secure its income by means other than holdings in oil companies. With less direct ownership, the State may carry out its task as controller and regulator in a more efficient manner.» These are excellent formulations, predictive and wise. I believe that the basic conditions of Norwegian oil and gas policy have changed little since then. The arguments in this setting are more than valid today. The partial privatisation of Statoil has been useful for the country. The Minister of Economic Affairs, in a letter to the Energy and Environment Committee, stated that the partial privatisation had been positive for the company at the latest during the examination of the merger of Statoil and Hydro. Buying further up to 67 pst. therefore, the operation of the merged company appears unnecessary, both for commercial, fiscal and industrial policy reasons. By going against legislative change, as the minority does, the funds that now need to be used for buying-in — significant funds — could have been added to the State pension fund — abroad. The majority of the case repeats in a note what the ministry writes in the proposition, namely that the counterpart of investing in the pension fund is returns in the form of dividends in the future. It's to the extent that an interesting remark from parties that you don't usually associate with paying dividends so heavily. Of course, when a company such as Statoil operates on a completely commercial basis, in a very liberal market, in a harsh international environment, there will be uncertainties in terms of dividends. Market values may change. It hasn't gone a week yet since we saw Statoil's values race with tens of billions of dollars, based on the future prospects. It is even shorter since a significant oil leakage spread uncertainty around this industry. I think that's hardly the basis for using pure mathematics to make money flow into the state treasury later. I also believe that I now have support for this view into some of the government parties. During a debate in the Business Committee a few days ago, the representative Lundteg of the Central Party formulated this in relation to what to put on by industry in the future: ‘Our oil and gas-powered economy will exist for a short period in Norwegian history. Even now, oil production is falling more than budgeted, despite excessive lead activity. It is a clear warning.’ This is hardly a statement that will give the analysts water on the mill compared to too high yields in the future. I'm not supposed to be as pessimistic as the Center Party. I don't think that's the basis. I don't think the oil and gas industry is a sunset industry, but at least we have a basis for doing what the minority does, namely to go against this change in law and in that way keep the money in the Pension Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e185	The legislative proposal presented by the rapporteur is in fact a follow-up to the merger of Statoil and the petroleum business of Hydro, and to the clear intention of the Government and the majority to purchase shares in the merged company. The background to the legislative amendment is that Stortinget has already – and I already stress – decided that the state’s ownership of the merged company should be increased over time from 62.5 p.m. to 67 pst. With this in mind, Stortinget has followed up its intentions in the 2001 stock exchange listing of Statoil in at least 67 pst. holding in Statoil. With regard to this case, it is important to stress that the income of the State pension funds is currently defined in the Pension Fund Act. In the income of the State pension fund – Foreign shares are sold in Statoil, less any state capital contributions to the company. The bill promoted by the Government through this proposition ensures a symmetric treatment of the purchase and sale of shares. The law’s definition of net financial transactions is extended to the purchase by the State of shares in the combined StatoilHydro. The purchase of shares in the combined company by accounting technique will be defined as financial transactions and thus as a property position that does not affect the surplus of the State pension fund — Rest of the world, as shown in the accounts. In our opinion, it is important and right that the state over time increases its share in StatoilHydro to 67 pst. I refer to the fact that the purchase of shares in StatoilHydro under the bill is financed by funds that had otherwise been transferred to the State pension fund – abroad. The counterpart of this investment is a return in the form of dividends in the future. This is by law part of the cash flow transferred to the State pension fund – Foreign. The opposition uses broad space in its comments to focus on the proposal and decision to buy up to 67 pst. the merged company is unnecessary for both commercial, fiscal and oil policy reasons. This is not the subject of the proposed legislation, since, as the opposition knows very well, this has already been discussed in depth and, not least, debated and adopted by the Stortinget. It is almost done so that we will now deal with the question of buying up. This decision is taken, whether the opposition likes it or not. The Progress Party points, inter alia, to: that such a loudly communicated purchase of shares will further push up the share price so that the real costs could be higher. It is also claimed that up to DKK 25 billion could be injected into the Norwegian economy in a relatively short time. They make a big number that according to the government's own rhetoric in other contexts, it will create inflation, higher interest rates, pressure on the krone price and in the long term lead to the flagging out of Norwegian jobs. To this I would like to point out that the Government's intention is that the purchase of shares in StatoilHydro should take place in the market over time. Furthermore, the effects on the economy of the government purchasing shares of the merged company are, by far, small. Action lists show that, apart from the country, there are mainly foreign investors who own shares in StatoilHydro. If the government purchases shares from those investors, the effect will be that they will adjust the composition of their wealth by reducing their investments in StatoilHydro. At the same time, the purchase of shares in the company will involve the relocation of a very small proportion of the country's wealth. If we see these two relationships in context, the combined effects on the Norwegian economy are likely to be very, very small. I also want to focus on a look-up in the Newspaper on the summer this year. The promoter of the party spokesperson Øyvind Korsberg then spoke to the Newspaper about another purchase. The representative of Korsberg stated that the Advance Party would provide Hydro 10 pst. by the State pension fund — Rest of the world for a possible purchase of the Canadian energy giant Alcan. This could be about the net sum of $180 billion. So the representative of Korsberg explains that the Progress Party wants to initially reduce the state's share of Hydro to 34 pst. That's how far in good FrP spirit. So that's interesting, and that's the following statement: ‘If the Government wants to maintain 44 pst, we will also support it.’ [[...]] According to Korsberg, the amount that will be added to this is not very interesting – it should not be on money. Then I am not stupider than that I see that there is also a different view in the Progress Party, among other things. expressed by Mr Christian Tybring-Gjedde. Here it is spoken in tongues, at least with two tongues. Finally, I would recommend the suspension of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e221	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e224	I am sorry to have to say that, but the representative Sandal did not have much financial insight into his post. I'll ask you specific questions. When you increase the government's share from 62.5 to 67 p.m., that would be 143 million shares. It's based on a price of 180 kroner 25 billion kroner. That is what the representative Sandal says has no impact on the Norwegian economy. In his article today, he says that he has checked the shareholder list. Luckily, he found out that part of these shares are on foreign hands. That's right. But how can the representative think that up to 25 billion – let's say it is 15 billion DKK – should not have any impact on the Norwegian domestic economy, when driving and debating 100 million and 10 million in the hall as an absolute limit to the state budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e231	First of all, I would like to say that Mr Sandal's representative is not on the floor here. He's standing in another place in the hall. What the representative Jamessen said is that if we see more relationships in the context, the effect can – I was saying – be very small. And not only are some investors foreign. That list is really very long. I just repeat what I have said earlier: the party of progress speaks with two tongues in this case. There are also other purchases, which were discussed here by day, where the Progress Party had a slightly different view of the state's ownership. So it's probably a piece between life and learning also in the Progress Party when it comes to buying.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e241	Svein Braid to line – and the line goes to the representative Alf E. Jakobsen!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e244	The representative Jacobsen had views on how we write our comments to justify our views on this matter. We're going to continue to do it the way it's necessary to justify our view, and I hope that the rulers can find out about it in the future as well. It was interesting to hear Jakobsen's assessments of how the stock market is going to accept the purchase. It was very interesting to hear that it is not going to influence particularly at all. But my very question is this: why does the representative Jamessen think he can be sure that the dividends in the company will correspond to the investment, when he sees what problems affect the company at the moment, and what difficult market does he work in?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e251	Let me first say that I have no intention of influencing the representatives from the Right in how to write their comments. But what I'm saying is that this matter has been debated and adopted, and now there's another question we're focusing on, namely the bill. When it is said that the investment is going to match the yield, that is not what I said. I said the counterpost was a dividend. I didn't say it was going to correspond to what could be the situation. It goes up and down. But when we look at the Norwegian oil wealth and what we now have in the State pension fund – abroad, I think most people know that there is a safe and safe investment, although in this context there are things that affect the situation, for example what happened to Snow White.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e258	I am so lucky to have a line both to Sandal and to Jakobsen in the same round! The representative Jakobsen said that if the list of shareholders had been exclusively Norwegian — that is at least the consequence of what he says — the government’s position would have been different. If the StatoilHydro shareholder list did not happen to have many non-resident shareholders, the government would have cost the purchase of SEK 143 million. shares in the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e265	It's not like that. But it's an argument to counteract what you've actually said about the reality of the shareholder list. The purchase case had been brought by today's government in any case, without taking it over the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e271	I would like to ask for another line to clarify what Jacobsen said about the previous one, about the return on the investment. I understood the previous answer so that he was not so sure about this anyway, and said that I did not really say this. It is noted by the majority: «The counterpart of this investment is returns in the form of dividends in the future»; So this is going to go into it. Then my question becomes as follows: do I understand the representative so that he is now unsure whether this is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e281	The representative is not unsure whether this is going to happen over time. If you've read me another way, that's not right. But it is clear that this market is changing, and so has the representative from the Right. But I'm pretty sure this is going to be a good investment, which will also return money to the State pension fund – abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e286	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President. No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e291	The attitude we are now discussing is one of the most curious issues the Government has put forward this session – not because it is surprising that the Government wants to increase state ownership in Norwegian industry, but because it later as if the transaction does not have any consequences for any of the parties involved. It is then important to inform all the actors about what this case is actually about. The government is planning to spend 25 billion kroner – 25 billion kroner – on buying another 143 million. StatoilHydro shares to increase its holding from 62,5 p.m. to 67 pst. These shares will be purchased by the Government from large existing shareholders of the company. As StatoilHydro also has foreign shareholders, which the representative Jamessen was in, some shares will be bought by foreign owners – but some shares will be bought by Norwegian shareholders, and at the time you choose to buy, if you have to buy over time, maybe even more will be Norwegian shareholders. There is no guarantee of that. The major Norwegian shareholders are people that the Minister of Finance characterises in all other contexts as ‘those who already have the most’. The fact that the use of these 25 billion DKK is in stark contrast to the government's rhetoric about combating poverty is one thing, but the use of this money does not have an impact on the Norwegian domestic economy is directly wrong. To believe in the rhetorical government presents in any other context, it will not be possible to inject up to DKK 25 billion into the market without having a ringing effect on the overall level of activity in the Norwegian economy. For what will happen at the moment when a large Norwegian administrator chooses to sell its ownership position in StatoilHydro? According to the Government, nothing is happening at all. But it's with respect to report proven error. This administrator would inform the owners of the shares, and some owners would have chosen not to reinvest the money in the share market, but rather to withdraw the money and use it for consumption. How much of the NOK 25 billion is involved you can't know, but that the amount is significant is likely. The representative Jacobsen said that no matter who owns these shares, the government would do exactly the same. It's interesting to notice. The government is also trying in a very naive way to present it as if the use of money from the State pension fund for the purchase of shares in StatoilHydro is the exchange of wealth. Yes, the government party's comment even claims that the government is not using the money, because it is said to have increased dividends later than that will be placed in the State pension fund. Let's accept the government's presentation, that it's a trading relationship with respect to wealth. It is remarkable that such an exchange relationship does not exist when the Progress Party wants to exchange some of the financial assets we have in the State pension fund, for infrastructure for future value creation in Norway. No, then the government claims that the Progress Party spends the pension money on our grandchildren, while we get inflation, higher interest rates, higher dollar rates and outsourcing of jobs. The truth is, unfortunately, that the government in this case is showing an amazingly inconsistent attitude towards economic relations. In this case, the Government states correctly that it is possible to spend far more money in the Norwegian economy than the Government itself proposes over the state budget – because there is a part of this money that will be spent on – because the Government chooses to pretend that money used in the stock market disappears in the loose air, although the truth is that part of this money will indirectly go to personal consumption domestically. This is interesting. The government will spend more money just the purpose is important enough – the representative Jacobsen said so, the purpose is important enough. And to increase the state ownership of StatoilHydro to 67 pst. is clearly an action that the Government prioritises higher than, for example: development of the road network, equipment for our research laboratories, defence materials or computers for our school students. It's a legitimate political priority, but then you get to be open and honest and say it outright. So while the government chooses to pay shareholders NOK 25 billion, the “who have the least before” is being eaten off, as the government says, with the satisfaction of knowing that through the state they have become even larger partners in StatoilHydro. They probably appreciate that very much. I have now gained a greater understanding of what Prime Minister Stoltenberg said when he claimed that this government spends the money on the big tasks. For the purchase of shares in StatoilHydro costs bottle.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e314	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e317	I allowed myself in my post to ask some questions regarding the Progress Party and the shared vision expressed between the representative Øyvind Korsberg and the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde. What is the point of view of the Advance Party in terms of the possible purchase, and that there was enough money in the view of the Advance Party to buy up to 44 pst.? It's not a little money, either. And what is e.g. The point of view of the Progress Party with regard to the acquisition that has now taken place in relation to Aker Kværner? Does this not suggest that there is a slight split view also within the Progress Party regarding state acquisitions of important enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e322	I do not conceal that we have debates within the Progress Party on state ownership. But the Progress Party is united that we should have some ownership in strategically important industries for Norway, and StatoilHydro represents one of them. We have argued to sell ourselves out of companies that are not considered to be strategically important at all, but actually operate in competition with other companies outside. You have e.g. SAS and a number of other companies, where we don't have to own the companies, but they're actually competing with other companies. We have proposed in connection with the ownership notice which companies we want to sell out of. So we'll stay at a low level when it comes to state ownership. We're not going up to 67 pst. to gain decision-making competence – we do not need that. When you have negative ownership of a company of 33 p.m., you have enough power in the company to avoid making decisions that conflict with what you want to prioritize as owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e327	The party of progress is conducting a rhetoric that is building up its own ideology, which is not related to reality at all. When Tybring-Gjedde talks about insight into the economy, I was very surprised that he showed as little insight as he has shown in this debate. We have, for example, The Pension Fund and the Social Security Fund. The Progress Party itself proposes to fund hundreds of billions of dollars in terms of transport funds, petroleum funds, and it is not that the funds that enter and those that are responsible for those funds, income managers whether they exchange funds, or whether they sell/buy shares. So every day, there's a billion-dollar deal in Oslo Stock Exchange that's not being put into the budget. After all, it's the income from the fund that comes as income from the country. Therefore, this is a property position and has nothing to do with the rhetoric that Tybring-Gjedde used.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e332	The Progress Party wants an infrastructure fund of DKK 300 billion built over five years. The reason we want that is because the government is starving in the transport sector in Norway. We want a guaranteed return and use the 4 pst. rule contained in the State pension fund for returns to infrastructure. Then we're going to spend enough money to build up the road network in Norway, get the railway rusted up, and we're going to get broadband across the country. Instead of the government's snooping speed, the Progress Party chooses to guarantee that the return on this goes to it. Then you move money from the State pension fund to another fund, or you can use certain parts of the State pension fund, leave it where it is today, but use 4 pst. on it. That makes sense. We do the same for petroleum research. And that makes sense. We guarantee that we spend money on research where it's important. This is because the Government is not willing to grant what is needed to upgrade the infrastructure in Norway. Then we have to propose drastic measures, and we see other parties coming after and also want to establish funds. We're happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e337	It's an interesting debate. The progress party has more money than anyone else for its purposes. We have now been told in the discussion that the Progress Party accepts that the oil and gas sector is an area that defines as important for strategic ownership, and that one wants to have a significant ownership position and believes that 33 pst. is opaque. At the same time, we hear repeatedly that there are also commercial considerations behind the policies of the Progress Party. Then the question is, when it comes to the sale that happened in Statoil in its time, could we hear the figures of the Progress Party in clear words as to whether it has been economically beneficial for the Norwegian people to sell themselves into Statoil – from the time it happened, until today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e344	Lundtigen is probably out after I said that it was not profitable to sell himself down. And you can just figure that out. The point is, if you're going to have an approach to how much the state should own, across private owners, we want a sober approach to that. The representative Lundtigen could use the exact same argument, and then he should, for example, use the same argument. listed municipalities that own power companies today, which have now three to fourfold in value on the stock exchange. You should sell today if you didn't sell five years ago. It's an equally meaningless argument. We have a principle approach to this. We wanted ownership, limited ownership in strategic companies, but we don't want to speculate on the stock exchange – whether to sell then, whether it was wrong or it was right. It's an unwise approach. We want to have a principle approach to that. We have limited ownership, and 31 pst. is limited in ownership. We don't want to dominate Oslo Stock Exchange and the ownership of Oslo Stock Exchange.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e354	I'll try again, and I actually expect the representative Tybring-Gjedde to answer my question. Does the Progress Party believe that when a buyer buys shares for DKK 300 billion, which is to be done by the Transport Fund, it does not have an influence, but when a chooses to buy shares in Hydro, which can also be done by this Transport Fund to the Progress Party, does it have an impact on Norwegian policy? Or does the Progress Party believe that it is investing in funds, i.e. a property position, and that it does not have an impact on the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e361	It is obvious that the representative of Klungland has not understood the point of the Fund provisions of the Advance Party. When you fund money, if there's $2,500 billion on the State pension fund, you can earmark $300 billion of these and get their return on infrastructure in Norway. Of course, using the returns of an infrastructure fund will have an impact on the domestic economy of Norway, if you choose to use it in the domestic economy of Norway, if you use labour in Norway, etc. That's absolutely correct. I have said that I have answered the question from the representative of Klungland that these things are quite different. If I have misunderstood the question, if he is able to clarify the question a little bit better, I can answer again, but I guess that's what was asked, namely whether our fund had consequences for the Norwegian domestic economy. It only has it when you take the return from the fund, because the fund can still be part of the State pension fund – abroad. But the return of this fund, the 4 pst. in the 300 billion DKK over five years, we will use it to build infrastructure in Norway and to upgrade the road network for 20 years instead of waiting, as the government does, for 50 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e368	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e371	It is exciting to follow the debate, but I thought I would deal with what is at the heart of the matter here, namely that our government is opening – as a result of the merger that has taken place between Statoil and Hydro – to buy up to 67 p.m., and that is to be done by the state. We believe that this is important for our national and strategic interests. StatoilHydro is today a company that completely dominates the Norwegian base, and we think it is right to have the strategic ownership. The state owns the oil when it's in the ground, but by securing a two-thirds majority of us over StatoilHydro, we will also own and have strategic control over the entire course of the oil, from the ground up to the petrol tank of the various cars in Norway or exported out of the country. It is important for the state to have control over this. It's strategic for us to have that control over StatoilHydro. We see it in relation to the north and the development that is taking place there, the policy that is being pursued. It is an advantage for StatoilHydro to have the state as its owner, as a safe and dominant owner. Although it is not widely commented on, either in Norwegian or international media, the observant, social-interested citizen notes that it is Russia's president who calls the Norwegian Prime Minister and informs us that we are getting involved in the development of Shtokman in the Russian sector. It's a repositioning of capital. We're moving money from other shares to StatoilHydro shares. It is an asset, an important asset, to have for Norway. With the changes we're making now, we're sure what the long time has been an SV request. We once again ensure strong control over StatoilHydro in the years to come. We know that this is popular with the Norwegian people. We don't have to go far back in time to remember the debate about the sale in Statoil, when we sold ourselves down in time. It is known what SV's position was at the time, and we know that the Norwegian people are happy that we have a strong and good ownership in StatoilHydro.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e382	I would also like to comment on the increased state-owned item in StatoilHydro from 62.5 pst. to 67 pst. 67 pst. – two thirds of a majority – is an important frontier in any company. The centre party is pleased with the majority today. Not only the government parties, but also the Christian People's Party supports the majority position. As SVs Heikki Holmås said, there was a minority at the spillover of the state's ownership in Statoil in 2001, and that minority existed at the time of the Senterpartiet and SV. Those parties are today in a majority, and that is very pleasing. It is true that I said on behalf of the Center Party in connection with the business committee that the oil and gas sector today is such that we have an oil and gas-powered economy that has a short historical period. I said that because it is important to focus on the fact that oil production now falls more than what is budgeted. This also applies in the coming years. However, in the context it was said, the focus was to focus on the future — in the sense of renewable energy. However, it is not to be understood that a non-resident with his ownership of oil and gas is the wisest way, because one is seaworthy of many rich years, not least in the gas sector, in Norwegian society. There is a culture emerging here from the opposition, perhaps more clearly stated by the Right, that placing profits on national capital by buying parts of foreign operations is more high and more secure than buying parts of Norwegian operations – here we are talking about oil and gas resources. On the part of the minority, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, it is pointed out that this is a more uncertain share investment, as if one had somewhat more thorough assessments of the extent to which investments in Citibank, for example, would be more secure equity investments in the future. That's not supposed to be the basis. What the majority, with the Christian People's Party now, is – as has been said before – clear in line with strong popular flows, is that this is an important national issue, where one combines both a commercial and a strategic ownership. It is said that state ownership is unwise, not forward-looking. Then I would point out that what's happening internationally now is the opposite. What's modern, what's forward-looking in a number of heads of state around it, is to ensure, if you have a financial capacity for it, a strategic national ownership. It is therefore very gratifying that we have come to what we are now adopting, namely that we are correcting a weakness from 2001, when one sold himself down. We in the Center Party are very satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e404	Norwegian history has shown that the politicians who have taken decisions to take care of the oil and gas industry have made a very sensible decision in all respects. They've been thinking about long-term, and they've been thinking that society will get something back for the investment. Norway is therefore seen as an example of how we have managed both corporate structure, ownership structure and fiscal policies in the oil sector. So it has meant that Norway has become a prosperous country, one of the world's richest countries, which means that the Norwegian economy cannot absorb the increased income that has secured the Norwegian economy through political decisions. Therefore, we have created a fund to be included and pay for future pension costs. That fund has a share with share purchases in its portfolio. There has also been a discussion about how much that share should be, but it has a share in its portfolio. We have the Social Security Fund, which is the same thing, which is a fund that is supposed to be part of and fund the people's security, the pension/unemployment pension, which is also important to the welfare community. So those funds can choose to buy shares in Hydro. Then it's all right for the Progress Party. But when Stortinget says that we want StatoilHydro to be an instrument for the nation of Norway, as it has been until today, and that in the long run we want to strengthen the ownership there with the money that might have been in a fund, it suddenly uses a rhetoric that this will destroy the Norwegian economy. Of course it won't. If it had been so that we had seen that the nation of Norway and the Norwegian economy had lost that we had invested in StatoilHydro, we would of course not have done so. But we prefer to get the most resources and the best possible return on the investments we make, for the society of Norway. I don't think there are many people in the world who can say that Norwegian politicians have done it very wrong until today. The progress party might say that, but it's probably related to what they've built up on is to criticise the most correct political decisions in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e415	It's going to be line change, limited to three lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e418	Let's accept -- for this line -- that it makes sense to buy up from 62.5 pst. to 67 pst. in Hydro, which the representative of Klungland was very concerned about. I would like to ask the question to Klungland that I asked to Jakobsen: Where are the 25 billion dollars for which the state buys shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e425	They help you run the company StatoilHydro. Where they're going, depending on where the company's assignment goes, One reason we made when we part privatized Statoil was just that we were going to get capital, because we saw that there was a merger in the petroleum sector that led to the companies getting bigger and bigger. We saw then that oil production in Norway was going down, and if one were to secure the jobs in Statoil – now StatoilHydro – one had to enter with more capital. But finally, that's not what the representative fleet said, that it goes up. No, we invest money to get a return on that capital. It'll be the society that gets that money back, because that's how this market economy works.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e432	This is relatively alarming. So it's not an issue made in StatoilHydro, which would mean capital to StatoilHydro. It is a purchase of shares not owned by the company StatoilHydro, but owned by individuals and institutions around it. That's why I ask the representative, Klungland, once again, where are the 25 billion dollars going? Whom does the Government buy these shares from? So, who owns the shares today, and where does this money go?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e438	I am at all very surprised by the argument of the representative Tybring-Gjedde. Of course, I do not know who the government is going to buy the shares from. What we're saying is that we want to get a larger holding in StatoilHydro. Where we buy them from, we're not going to decide now. We need to secure a larger holding. The more I hear from the rhetoric – or talk – of the representative Tybring-Gjedde, the more I encourage him to go back to his roots, public whorehouses and pit bullies – because in economics today he has struck with glory. It is that if one buys shares and sells shares, the value of the property is the same, and thus it does not reflect the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e443	This is an interesting morning when it comes to teaching about the stock market. My reply comes because the representative Klungland has sent me a visit in one of his answers to Tybring-Gjedde, where he says that I am talking about this going up. Now the representative Klungland says it's not like that, it's social gains. Then my simple question – which I have asked once before today – about what is in his note is the short sentence that the counterpart of this investment is returns in the form of dividends in the future: Is that so, or is it not? Or is there some socio-economic account the representative of Klungland has to present to show that this is going up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e450	Of course, we have faith that we will get greater economic returns when we have invested in the companies in which we have politically chosen to invest. This is an ideological discussion, because the Right has never been a champion for the State to make the big investments. It's private to do it. The representative Fleet should take a trip to Nigeria and see how it works. We have shown that Hydro has been extremely important to Norwegian society for almost 100 years — and also to Statoil — both in terms of economic returns and in relation to the development of industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e457	The cord shift is over. We're going back to the regular list of speakers. The president pointed out that there were three lines to the club. Does Lars Sponheim then wish to speak in the debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e462	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e469	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 200]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e485	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e494	Law amending the Law on Public Acquisitions has the background to the Government’s action plan against social dumping. The Government’s proposal is to oblige contracting authorities to use contractual clauses designed to ensure the pay and working conditions of public contracts which are no less favourable than those resulting from the applicable collective bargaining agreement, regulation or practice. The Committee has held consultations on the matter and in the light, inter alia, of the following: none of the parties found in the committee that they could support the proposed amendment as promoted by the Government. The majority of the Committee, represented by the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, have promoted a new legislative proposal, mainly based on country-wide collective agreements as a basis for comparison of earnings. The rapporteur is of the opinion that representatives of the red-greens should be given more information on the basis of this proposal. The other parties to the Committee do not consider that they can support the original legislative proposal or the new majority proposal as it now stands in the Odelstingen position. The legislative proposal as it now stands is a proposal for a law on powers, specifying the obligations to be laid down in regulations. These are proposals to which the Progress Party is highly sceptical, as we believe that most of the obligations imposed by the Storting should be legislated as far as possible. However, this is not the main objection we have to the current legislative proposal. First of all, questions can be asked as to whether the legislative proposal is necessary. Municipalities and county councils currently have the possibility to implement ILO Convention No. 94, which will largely meet the objectives set out in the bill. At the same time, in the field of so-called social dumping, i.e. in the construction sector, there is a applicable public service law. So for the Progress Party it might look like you're trying to shoot sparrows with cannons. It should also be noted that the legislative proposal poses a number of practical challenges that arise from the consultation carried out by the Committee, as well as the consultation responses received by the Ministry when the proposal was being consulted. This applies to interpretations of acceptable salary levels, to tariff agreements which are applicable when reference is made to working conditions, to who should have regulatory compliance control, and to some other things that are unclear. At the same time, questions have also been asked about the regulation to be applied if the regulations drawn up as a result of the legislative proposal conflict with regulations based on other laws. The Progress Party cannot see that the Government provides clear answers to these challenges and, on this basis alone, cannot support the proposal. At the same time, it is a major point of appeal that there can be doubts as to whether this bill conflicts with our obligations under the EEA Agreement. It is to point out that the Ministry of Justice, in its reply to the hearing, also has doubts as to whether the legislative proposal is contrary to the EEA Agreement, which should weigh heavily in order to clarify this matter. In response to questions from the rapporteur on whether the legislative proposal has been submitted to ESA for assessment, the Council of State denies that this has not been the case. At this stage, it is therefore unclear to the Progress Party whether the proposal is feasible or not. A reference to whether the bill is contrary to the EEA Agreement can be made in a relatively short time, as there is now a similar case in the European Court of Justice, which will be decided in a short time. This matter is referred to in the odelstingsproposition, and the Norwegian authorities have even made comments on the matter. Why the Government will not await the judgment in this matter, which will largely lead to the possibility of implementing the bill, can certainly explain further in its intervention. Finally, I would also like to point out that on direct questions from the case rapporteur to representatives from the KS at the hearing, KS replied that they considered the legislative proposal unnecessary in order to achieve the intention of the proposal. I am promoting the minority's proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e522	The representative Kåre Fostervold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e525	According to the Central Statistical Office, public procurement in 2006 amounted to approximately NOK 315 billion. Of these, municipal and county government and business operations account for NOK 106.6 billion. It goes without saying that the public sector with such a volume contributes to influencing the development of the private sector. Properly used, public procurement and procurement policies can help to make suppliers more socially responsible, more environmentally friendly and more competitive. This is a development that we all deserve, both as customers, suppliers and residents. The amendment we are dealing with today aims to ensure that contracting authorities do not contribute to the exploitation of workers. Since the countries of Eastern Europe joined the EU and became part of the EEA, we have had a large influx of workers from these countries to Norway. Estimates show that there have been between 80 000 and 100 000 workers from the new EEA countries. They work for Norwegian employers, are hired or are on temporary assignment for foreign activities in Norway. Most are construction workers, but also in other professions and industries, we see an increase in the influx of foreign labour. Without these, we would have a noticeably reduced capacity in the Norwegian economy. The Labour Party is positive for labour immigration, but we assume that these workers' employers adhere to Norwegian wage levels and Norwegian law in terms of working conditions and tax conditions. From employment supervision, the media and trade unions, we are still reminded that many employers are involved in the robbery of their employees. We hear about gross underpayment, unworthy living conditions and unacceptable employment conditions. This is addressed in the Government’s action plan against social dumping and instruments are deployed in many areas. One such instrument is to oblige all contracting authorities to use contractual clauses to ensure that pay and working conditions are not worse than collective agreements. The state has such clauses today. This is now extended to Municipality-Norway as well. With that also one of the points of the Soria Moria declaration is implemented, and we prevent contracting authorities from contributing to the exploitation of workers. At the Committee's open hearing, proposals were made for clarification of the legal text. The majority of the Committee supports this and therefore proposes that the legal text refers to country-wide collective agreements. I refer to the majority's vote and legislative proposals at that point. The opposition's attitude to the present case is, to put it mildly, strange. In the budgetary position of the Labour and Social Committee, which was discussed eight days ago, there was an overall committee which referred to the legislative amendment proposed in Ot.prp. No 7 for 2007-2008, stressing that these are important instruments to prevent social dumping. Now, as the rapporteur explained, the opposition parties have turned their backs on and become opponents of these instruments. What's happened on these eight days? Are we witnessing a deep division between the opposition's social and labour politicians on the one hand and the industrial politicians on the other? In this case, it will be exciting to hear more about it today — what emerges during the debate and voting. Or is it that an overall opposition still believes that the proposals we are dealing with are important instruments to prevent social dumping, but that it is no longer going to prevent social dumping? In that case, it will be exciting to hear the reason for such a converstion. In today's Business Tuesday 11 December, Torbjørn Hansen from the Right says: ‘An overall opposition opposes the proposal.’ [[...]] He goes on to say that they haven't even taken up the idea of proposing changes. One might wonder if they have taken the trouble to discuss the matter with their parties in the Labour and Social Committee. Let's hope, for the sake of the debate, that at least they will take the trouble to explain the twist in the view of social dumping. The International Labour Organisation saw the need for such demands as early as 1949. When can we expect the opposition to see it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e559	As indicated in the vote and also in the previous paragraph, the Right will vote against this proposal. But I would like to stress, and especially to the representative Arne Haugen, that it is not a signal that the Right is hot followers of social dumping – neither the Right Members of the Business Committee nor the Right Members of the Labour and Social Committee. Work against social dumping must be a high priority in the workplace — and perhaps especially in the public sector. This is a multi-disciplinary work. Unfortunately, the proposal we are considering today is not an effective measure in the fight against social dumping. It is therefore easy to see it as a labelling policy in an area where the government may lack good enough tools. However, the obvious consequence of the proposal is a further weakening of competition in public procurement. The introduction of new legislation requiring contracting authorities to ensure that the terms and conditions of employment contained in contracts are not less favourable than the tariff agreement in force will result in a sharp increase in the complexity of public procurement legislation. We already know that the public sector has major difficulties in complying with the procurement rules. The government has not in any way taken action to counteract the enormous amount of breach of the rules in this field. Tenders are broken over a low shoe — both by the municipal sector, by the county councils and by the state. It unfortunately tells a lot about the policy in this area that at the top of this, there are regulatory deteriorations, as an attempt to mark political against social dumping. The consultation of the Business Committee shows that the matter is poorly prepared by the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. Firstly, this is a mere law of authority. There is no finished law that makes it clear how this is to be put into life in the real world. The proposal allows for a broad interpretation of the implications of any regulation, thus creating uncertainties related to several issues. It is also uncertain whether this is consistent with Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement. In addition, it is likely that the Services Directive will further tighten regulatory access to temporary services. This is also confirmed by the Ministry of Justice, which states that the pay requirement for gangs may be contrary to the EEA Agreement, because it goes beyond what is deemed necessary to prevent social dumping. As mentioned above, the government has major challenges in making the public sector comply with the procurement legislation adopted by the Stortinget. It is quite serious, because not complying with the legislation increases public expenditure, it creates increased ground for camaraderie and corruption, and, not least, it makes the everyday life of small and medium-sized enterprises in this country much more difficult. The government says from time to time that you take this seriously. This case tells us the opposite. When the control responsibility for this complex regulatory framework at the top of the whole is transferred to municipalities and county municipalities, it goes without saying that this amendment will lead to an increase in the number of breaches of the procurement rules. So we get a law that's more complicated to follow up, and the government itself is so uncertain about this that you don't even establish proper control systems. This bill is therefore – short and well – doomed to become a paper tiger. The way the Government handles the purchasing area is quite strange. We are constantly hearing from the Government, like the Riksrevision, that the enormous amount of violation of the procurement law is a problem that needs to be solved. Unfortunately, we see that the Government in action is doing the opposite. The first Council of State did so after accession was to remove the proposal for a simplified obligation to publish contracts below the threshold of 500000 kroner. As a result, the ability of companies to compete in this rather large market segment was greatly reduced. The tender threshold had previously been set at NOK 200000, so that the obligation to publish would be a substitute for a full tender. The government converted this into a protocol obligation, a measure that is not relevant for enterprises that are in pursuit of a public sector mission. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has promised to further weaken its tender rules by raising its tender threshold to the EU’s absolute minimum of 1.8 million. kr. The Council of State indicated in the budget debate that this might be compensated by a public disclosure obligation, but the result would be a new weakening of competition in public procurement. This is a language understood by the municipalities, county councils and state. They see that we have a government that correctly regrets crimes, but that in action weakens the law and makes it more complicated, and introduces control regimes that do not have credibility. Therefore, there is little doubt that today’s legislative proposals will lead to – as today’s Economy writes on 10 December – more ‘buy-outs’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e587	SV and I are pleased that the Government and the Council of State are taking the lead in combating social dumping. I must say that I am surprised that the opposition is digging down in detail. They're kind of trying to problem this much more than it deserves – you don't see the forest for just trees. I think it's a shame you don't see how important it is for the government to go ahead and fight this. There are at least three reasons why this is important. Firstly, it is important that the companies that are actually trying to run seriously, and that follow the laws and rules, do not experience that there is someone who does not follow the rules and thus get competitive advantage, because they simply do things that are not in accordance with what we want. Secondly, it is important in relation to workers. In Norway, it is a quality that employees have had tariffs and laws and rules to adhere to that have made us have had rules of the labour market that we have been proud of. What we're seeing now is that many people give out in these tariffs and the rules of the game, and so it's the employees who get sick of it by being heavily underpaid. So it becomes a big problem how to deal with them, and how to take care of their sails and their families. But the most important thing is that if we don't do something about social dumping in Norway and the public is at the head, we'll eventually get another kind of society in Norway that I don't think we're served with. What's happening is we're going to build a new subclass. That subclass does not consist primarily of Nordics but of imported labour. That means that if we don't get rid of this problem, people from Eastern Europe, from Asia and from Africa who work here in Norway for ridiculously low wages, and who actually have to live in a different way to work in society, because the cost of living in Norway is relatively equal for everyone – we have to have houses, we have to have transport, clothes, food, we have to have insurance, we have to have dentists, etc. Obviously, if we get the acceptance that some people get 30, 40, or 50 dollars an hour to work in a restaurant or in a construction site, and if this gets degenerate, we get a new type of subclass that will get completely different social conditions to live under. Therefore, it is so important that we are clear – including from the Government – that this is unacceptable. We don't want social dumping. That's why we have to settle it. The state and the public must be at the forefront. We also have to expect the private ones to follow. This is a very important matter, which I am pleased that the Council of State and the Government are so clear on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e600	In recent times, there has been a signal that the problem of social dumping is increasing. This is a development over which the Christian People's Party is deeply disturbed. It is a serious challenge for foreign workers to be offered poorer pay and working conditions than their Norwegian counterparts. This is not only unfortunate for foreign workers, it can also lead to a trend towards generally weakened labour rights and greater inequality in society. This would thwart central Norwegian ideals such as solidarity and equality – ideals seen by the Christian People's Party as high. The fight against social dumping is also important in order to ensure a level playing field between enterprises, so that it is not worth pursuing unlawfully. It is therefore positive that the Government prioritises the work against social dumping, including in the public sector. The public as a contractor has a special responsibility to act seriously and to counteract social dumping. The present proposal gives the Government the opportunity to impose contractual clauses on public contractors. These calusulas shall ensure pay and working conditions in public contracts which are not worse than those resulting from the applicable collective agreement, regulation or otherwise normal for the city and profession concerned. The proposal is a follow-up to ILO Convention No. 94, which the Christian People's Party voted to ratify. Against such a back wall, it is sad to note that the government's concrete proposal has several unfortunate aspects. I want to highlight in particular the following: Firstly, the legislative amendment is a superlative law on powers, which imposes measures not more specifically specified in the law but is laid down in regulations. The Christian People's Party is skeptical about this, because it opens up a broad interpretation of what the bill means. Nor, in our view, have adequate clarifications been made in the hearing proposal for the regulations to follow the law. Secondly, the Government’s proposal may be contrary to Article 36 of the EEA Agreement that it should not be: «any restrictions on the freedom to provide services within the territory of the Contracting Parties on nationals of one of the Member States of the EC or of an EFTA State which have established themselves in another Member State of the EC or of an EFTA State other than the recipient of the services». It is not possible to say much easier. The Services Directive will result in an additional restriction on public regulatory capacity in the case of temporary provision of services compared to the EEA Agreement. The Christian People's Party believes that it is unwise to deal with this matter before the Stortinget has been given its EU Services Directive for treatment. Thirdly, the Ministry of Justice has pointed out that the Government’s proposal for amendment may be contrary to the EEA Agreement, because a requirement for ‘remuneration’ goes beyond what is necessary to prevent social dumping. The Christian People's Party believes that the change in the legal text from the "thing's salary" to the "tariff or normal salary" does not change the Ministry of Justice's objections to the bill. I would like to point out to the Christian People's Party their comments in the committee setting, where a line is that the work against social dumping must have a high priority in all parts of the world of work, not least in the public sector. It is decisive that we have a functional and good law in this fight. Existing laws and regulations as public policy, ILO Convention No. 94 and the Working Environment Act are good tools in this context. It is good that the government focuses on preventing social dumping, among other things. in the case of public procurement. But the present proposal is far too vague on the central point. Just because it is so important to have effective means of combating social dumping that can actually work for the benefit of workers, the Christian People's Party cannot support the proposal. The Christian People's Party wishes to welcome new and more accurate proposals to the laws and regulations of the Government in the important work of preventing social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e629	The representative Inge Ryan asked the question: Can we, as living in one of the world's richest countries, sit down and see that fellow humans work under unworthy conditions right in front of our eyes? He gave the answer, and the government gave the answer, we can't. What signal does it give to serious businesses and honest workers if taxpayers' money and public funds help to divide workers into an A team and a B team? It is right that this government has already taken a number of measures to counter social dumping, such as the rules of the Public Administration Act, the Labour Environment Act and the 2005 circular, which implement the ILO-94 in the State sector. These are good rules, but they're not enough alone. We need different sets of tools that can address the problem from different sides, because in recent years, things have unfortunately been worse. Increasing problems of unprofessionalism and social dumping have been reported. The Labour Inspectorate reports that the extent of breaches of the rules on the working environment and working conditions is high. This is primarily the case in the construction industry, but also in messages from the supervision of parts of the industry, there is a lack of reference, for example. in respect of working time and accommodation requirements. Many people contact the Labour Inspectorate because they cannot pay the salary they have agreed to, or that they think they have a right to. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate points out that their impression is that employees from the new EEA countries have poorer security conditions than the rest of the construction sector. The cleaning industry, hotel and restaurant industries and not least agriculture received an increasing number of foreign workers. The Labour Inspectorate’s reports show that social dumping is also being detected in these industries. We can't accept this kind of development. Social dumping must therefore continue to be a priority. I'm glad that all the committee members with the exception of the Progress Party's members are some with us in that the public sector has a special role to play in this work. Public purchasers have a special responsibility to act seriously and to counteract social dumping. Then we must also have a regulatory framework to enable the public to grasp this work. What we are presenting today is, as also the representative Haugen was involved, a receipt of a point mentioned in the Soria Moria Declaration. So once again, the government delivers where we in the Soria Moria statement have told us to do it. I record that the Stortinget is divided into the view of how public purchasers should assume this responsibility, and what the rules of the shaft are appropriate. While the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Left want what they call flexible solutions and a free and dynamic labour market, I am at least pleased that the Christian People's Party supports its member's priority of work against social dumping, black work and other irregularities in the labour market. The government's proposal for a contractual clause has an important signal effect. All public authorities must now focus on workers' requirements for decent pay and working conditions. It's in itself important. The public must have a conscious relationship with what kind of contracts they enter into, and contribute to the equivalent treatment of people from other countries. But of course, the signal and focus are not sufficient. It is also necessary for contractors to monitor compliance with the clauses and to take action against suppliers in the absence of compliance with the clauses. I record that the critics believe that it will be impossible for most municipalities to comply with these requirements. For two years, central government powers have already been required to comply with the corresponding requirements through a 2005 ministerial circular. I have not, and have no other, registered any particular problems associated with its implementation. In the municipal sector, it has been voluntary to make use of the clauses. When KS conducted a survey on their use, it was found that the experience was rather limited, but the investigation also did not show that the clauses were as problematic as they should be. It is not uncommon for new rules to raise issues that may challenge the rules and create some uncertainty. I see that it may also be the case in this case. But I want to remind you that we also come with tools as well. From New Year's onwards, we have the new Directorate of Administration and ICT, which has its own section for public procurement with a high level of guidance and tools for both government and municipal buyers, as well as the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, which has launched a work to coordinate everything that has to do with social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e650	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e653	Let me just first stress that I don't think any of the opposition parties are for slave work, although we see the problem of implementing this proposal. Just to show some of the problem: I have now received a draft regulation to follow the law sent out at the hearing. This indicates that you are required to pay under the «tariff agreement, regulation or anything else normal to the place and profession in question». And the next sentence says, "This also applies to work to be carried out abroad." Then you have to start wondering if we are about to adopt a legislative proposal that will result in, for example: a municipality is to purchase a modular garden from, for example: Estonia, the municipality must require workers in Estonia to comply with the Norwegian collective bargaining agreement, Norwegian working conditions, Norwegian working environment law, Norwegian remuneration, etc. Or is there any other purpose behind this? In particular, according to Section 12 of the regulation, one also has a responsibility to follow up and take samples. It would have been very good if the Council of State could clarify this point, because that's part of the questions we're asking ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e665	It's a little strange to understand the criticism from the opposition, because the representative Fostervold said in his main post that this was to shoot spores with cannons, while he himself in the loops now, and also the representative Torbjørn Hansen from the Right, largely problematizes and says how difficult and terrible this is going to be. Yes, we take the height that this is required for buyers, it is something new to relate to. At the same time, the main objective is to have clean contracts and to ensure equal pay and working conditions for those we collect from abroad to do an important job in this country. That's what's superior. It is clear from the proposition that if work is to be done in another country, it is the normal pay and work conditions in the district of the country in which the work is carried out as debt. It's in the proposition, and that's what we're going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e674	The Council of State made a committed contribution against social dumping. It's nice that the government, like the opposition, has such an exposure. Unfortunately, this is probably a matter in which the Socialist Left Party believes that they can solve a major social problem only by adopting a law clause in the Odelstinget. I think the treatment of this case shows quite clearly that this is a bill that is not going to have any demonstrable effect on social dumping. On the other hand, the proposal will have a significant impact on compliance with the tendering rules. Nor has the government proposed a control system to monitor whether this is actually being followed up. Is it the case that the Government is now proposing a complex regulatory framework and then imposes control responsibilities on the local government sector in order to avoid getting information that the legislation is not being followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e683	No, on the contrary, we place control responsibility on those who are to conclude the contracts. That's the only right thing to do. The municipalities are required to conclude the contracts, which must ensure that when a contract is signed with the supplier, one has pay and working conditions in line with the statutory requirements. It's amazing to say that one on one side says that this won't have any effect at all, but on the other side there are no limits to how difficult it will be to implement it. I believe that the vast majority of municipalities, as well as most private enterprises, are very busy getting tidy working conditions in the Norwegian labour market. It is a competitive advantage for this country that we have a clean relationship between the employee and employer organisations, defined by law and contractual relationships. With this law, we will try to avoid creating an A team and a B team, where the B team out competitions the serious Norwegian companies – or for the part of the serious foreign companies – that want to compete under conditions that provide decent pay and working conditions for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e690	The fight against social dumping is important and calls for effective and effective measures. The proposal we are considering today is related to the EEA Agreement. The question then is: does the Council of State see that it would have been beneficial to have dealt with the Services Directive before we were given this matter for consideration? When I first come to the Services Directive, the Storting has asked several times what time it is to be treated in this room. Can the Council of State at the same time give a small indication of the time the Storting gets presented to the Services Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e697	I note that there is a great deal of support for the work against social dumping from all parties, except the Advance Party, in the Stortinget. I'm very happy about that. But what I'm a little sorry for is what the representative Haugen was about in his post: if it's that important, one should have taken the trouble at least to put forward an alternative instead of just voting against the law. What is the option if one should wait for all the world's treatments, e.g. in the case of the Services Directive, which may take time? I'm not going to comment on it today. But also work on any other international legislation will take time. Time goes by, and the Labour Inspectorate tells us that the extent of serious social dumping increases. Well, why don't we sit down and watch? No, no, no. This government now chooses to take an active step – introduce the ILO Convention that we announced in Soria Moria, also in the municipal sector, so that the whole public sector is involved – instead of sitting and waiting for others to finish any other action out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e704	I really have two questions, but I don't think I'll get both of them, we'll see. This concerns the case that has been before the European Court of Justice. Now it may be that it is getting closer to a decision there, or that something has come, but I am not informed about it. It is a matter that is very similar to the proposal we now have in relation to the impact on the EEA, and we have even made comments on that matter. Why does the Council of State not want to await a final judgment from there, so that we are sure that we do not now agree to adopt something that is contrary to EEA law?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e713	That's because we've also considered whether it's likely that the EEA rules would prevent us from doing what we're doing today, and have come to the opposite. We have found that everything indicates that what we are doing today can be accepted by EU law. As I said, it's also in the staging proposition. This includes: nine EU members having ratified the Convention. There is in itself a strong indication that the use of labour clauses in public contracts is a generally accepted tool in public international law. One can refer to the EU’s procurement directive, which has been implemented in Norwegian law through the regulation of 7 April 2006 on public procurement, which specifically approves contract terms and conditions relating to social protection. I believe that much is happening here in the context of the European Union, too, without one going down on it. There is of course a signal that this is accepted. We choose to do this because it's important to do it. We have an increasing amount of social dumping, and so we're going to introduce a law against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e720	I am a little told about the Government's attitude to the procurement law. Governments have just said that what we are adopting today makes purchasing legislation more complicated. We know that the procurement law is systematically broken by the entire public sector – from municipalities to county councils, state budgets, hospitals and up at the directorate level. It is a huge social problem that the public procurement of NOK 280 billion is not made in accordance with the tender law. The government then comes up with a new and very complicated legislation that will exacerbate this situation, and does not even break down with the introduction of a control system to check out that this will be followed up in reality. It's pretty obvious that this won't be followed up. Then is my question to the Council of State: how does it matter that Odelstinget adopts this change in law, when we can already conclude that this will not be followed up by the municipal sector, as the Central Association of Municipalities has stated?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e729	I have to say that I react a little to the claim made by the representative Torbjørn Hansen that municipalities and state enterprises systematically violate the law on public procurement – they do not. But there's too many fractions, that's right. Because there are so many violations, the representative Torbjørn Hansen and I have discussed them several times. There are several reasons for this, mainly a regulation that was complicated, that we have changed. As of 1 January of the current year, we had a new legislation that has been subject to both linguistic clean-up – making it easier to understand – and not least to clean up competences. With the municipal economy provided by the previous government, it is typical in these areas that municipalities had to cut their competence and thus have no adequate competence among them to add when it comes to the law on public procurement. The third is the lack of agencies that can guide and create good tools for public buyers. It will also receive this government from the New Year, through the new Directorate, as well as all the guidance tool that the Ministry has developed for itself this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e734	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e739	The amendments proposed by the Public Acquisitions Act would require all public purchasers to require suppliers and subcontractors to offer their employees normal pay and working conditions. It is an important measure and part of the government’s work against social dumping. The Economic and Social Committee has had an open consultation on the matter and several opinions have been expressed. Some supported the proposal, others were critical. Several thought that there was a need to make some clarifications in the legal text. We have followed this up, and the majority of the committee proposes in the vote some changes to the original legal text. Firstly, we have made it clear that workers must be guaranteed pay and working conditions which are no worse than those resulting from nationwide collective agreements. In the proposition from the Government, it was referred to tariff agreements, which became a bit unexplained. During the consultation, it was found that unorganised enterprises may also have internal collective bargaining agreements, for example. based on a tariff agreement from another country. This is not the intention of the law, and therefore we thought this clarification was necessary. Furthermore, we have proposed that the reference to the Regulation be removed, as this too became somewhat unexplained. With these changes, we believe that we have followed up in a good manner weaknesses in the legal text mentioned during the hearing. The opposition claims to be a supporter of social dumping measures but will not support them. The reasons in the comments are several, some do not even lead to correctness. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left believe that the legislative proposal opens up to require Norwegian pay and working conditions for work carried out in other countries. Then they can't have read the proposition, as the Council of State was about to make. It clearly states that workers must be guaranteed pay and working conditions which are no less favourable than those applicable to the same type of work in the same geographical area. To me, this seems to be substituting arguments. How can the representative Hansen feel that a legislative proposal requiring employees in supplier companies to have normal pay and working conditions is a labelling policy? A number of media surveys and surveys show that a significant proportion of foreign workers in this country, for example: in the construction sector, non-tariff jobs. The government will do something about this, and I'm glad. I share the Government's view that the contracting authority has a specific responsibility to act seriously and to counteract social dumping. It is important that the contracting authority imposes both the standard of employment and the working environment on employees. We are contributing to that through this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e755	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 201]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e771	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no change of line, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e778	Today, we are going to adopt changes to the law on food service activities. An overall nutrition committee proposes these changes. I don't expect it to be the very big debate a Friday afternoon, when you have a whole committee. I'll just briefly say what's the background for these changes. One does not want to give any competitive advantage to being untiring. That is why we want to tighten up the law and provide a stable framework for those who operate in the food industry. Let me mention three-four relationships, to be a little concrete. Firstly, it has been that those who have been selling hot sausages in this country have been exempt from this law. They are now subject to the law. This means that the street kitchen and kiosks and others who stay in the street and sell hot sausages must also comply with the law, as others must. Secondly, there are changes in relation to municipalities. Municipalities are given greater maritime rights in relation to determining opening hours. Municipalities are also given the opportunity to temporarily shut down serving sites. It's also in the law. Also in the case of the police, there are a few changes. Firstly, they have the opportunity to exclude people from serving places. In addition, they have previously been allowed to shut down serving sites for four days, now it is being extended to seven days. So there's going to be some changes here. It's important cleanups, and it's also tightening up. But it's good for the industry, so it has stable framework conditions and can operate as seriously as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e793	The right-hand side is in conjunction with the government parties in the setting of this proposition, and the case rapporteur has explained the matter in a good way. I will not withdraw the debate, but I will stress that it is important for the Right that regulations in this sector provide a basis for competition on equal terms. It must not be the case that those engaged in a law-abiding activity are competing with actors who take shortcuts across laws and regulations. This is why the professional organisations have been positive about this bill, and that is something that the Right considers. Right-wing believes that local democracy should be strengthened. Local politicians know the local conditions and are chosen by the voters, who want to influence their local environment. Therefore, it is a good principle that the opening hours of serving places should be determined by municipal autonomy. On this basis, our comments in the vote have stated that this should also apply to the alcohol law rules for selling and serving times, in shops and in gift shops. This is quite similar legislation, and the same principles should apply in this area. But this is a theme that we have to come back to in other ways. The right also supports the tightening of the police's right to close down a restaurant from four to seven days, and that the municipality also has more opportunities to close a restaurant. Unfortunately, sanctions are needed that operate in such an industry, which, unfortunately, has also had a crime trend in recent years. In this way, this bill is a good contribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e809	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 201]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e817	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e825	During the debate, the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e3462	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e3472	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e3576	The Progress Party, Right and Left have been notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e3589	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The Progress Party, Right and Left have been notified that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e3603	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e3611	During the debate, the representative Kåre Fostervold has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No 7 On the Act amending Law No 16 July 1999 69 on government acquisitions – not acceptable.’» [[2007-2008]] Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e3657	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e3669	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e3988	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e3998	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-14-lower.ana.ud892e4084	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
