ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22-lower.ana.ud1218e37	The President has reason to believe that there will be a very short debate, so it might be an idea that the representatives were sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22-lower.ana.ud1218e40	I thought people were sitting because I was so very interesting! But it wasn't. That's because the debate is getting short. The proposal for an alert provision in the House Rental Act is a follow-up to the strategy ‘Towards an owner-occupied dwelling’. The strategy shall prevent and combat homelessness and the aim is to reduce the number of requests for discards by a total of 50 pst. and the number of discards by 30 pst. by the end of 2007. Early follow-up from social services increases the chances of finding good solutions and preventing discards. That's why it's about being able to bring social services in at a time when it's not too late. Today, social services often have no knowledge of the default of rentals of dwellings until the authorities send notice of receipt of a request for expulsion. In this context, a unanimous committee supports the right of the lessor to notify social services in the event of a breach of the rental contract. The purpose of this provision in the House Rental Act is to encourage the lessor to notify social services if there is reason to do so. Consequently, it is not intended that the provision should have legal effects other than this. The provision is therefore designed as a rule of chance so that there is no doubt about the unintended consequences of the change in the rules. It is important that social services always consider the need for follow-up when receiving notices of default of a lease. It is not natural to include provisions in the House Lease Act that regulate the obligation of social service activity. It is important for tenants to be able to reserve themselves against social services being notified in the event of a breach of the rental contract, and the lessor should incorporate procedures to inform the lessee of this right of reservation. However, the lessee himself has an obligation to familiarise himself with his rights, and the lessor therefore does not lose the right to notify social services even if the lessor has not informed tenants of the right to reserve. The warning provisions include that an application for non-compulsory exemption should be made to the authorities of the Member States at the earliest two weeks after written notice has been sent to the social service. This is to ensure that social services have enough time to respond and hopefully resolve the situation before the case ends with the authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22-lower.ana.ud1218e55	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22-lower.ana.ud1218e103	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22-lower.ana.ud1218e113	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-22-lower.ana.ud1218e124	There is no record.
