ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e37	The representatives Leif Helge Kongshaug, Inger S. Enger, Dagfinn Højbrätten, Erling Sande, and Ola Borten Moe, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Akershu County, Gorm Kjernli, has taken the seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted to the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen from 5 March onwards and until further notice. – The application is proposed to be examined without delay and granted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for the West-Agder County, Knud Edmund Berthelsen, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinget. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox Other alternates of the West-Agder County, Astrid Bekkenes, are invited to meet during the period of leave.2. Astrid Bekkenes is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e84	Astrid Bekkenes is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e111	Today’s questions are raised in the context of what is also reflected in the inter-pelling text, namely the fight against organised crime. Its efforts have been strengthened in recent years in Norway, both through the reorganisation of the police and through legislation – including legislation regulating police methods, which allow the fight against organised crime on the ground of the rule of law. If you're going to use a picture of this, you're going to take the rule of law with you into closed environments, where crime is often done in such a way that the victims are also invisible. It is important to follow the rules of the rule of law. There is no doubt that many of the methods used by the police have produced good results in our country. I think everyone here agrees that the efforts that led to our having the whole history of the NOKAS case carried out in the Stavanger court have been the result of legislation, good methods, good police work and a judicial system that is to deal with such serious challenges. The question that has been raised today is about special police methods – what we call infiltration and provocation. In Norwegian, we can say that most people are familiar with these methods through the television series ‘Police Agents’, an Australian Crime Series. There you have a glimpse that this is a challenging landscape. It imposes significant requirements. It's not without discretionary areas. It's not without ethical dilemmas, and it's quite obvious that rules of play are required. Now it is not that what has been done in Norway to date has been random. When the Odel Sting on 26 October 1999 dealt with the police methods we call extended and new, i.e. communication control, secret search, etc., it was noted that at that time there would be no legal infiltration or provocation, but it was noted that this was something that the central authorities would follow. It is clear from the interpellation text that this is currently regulated by a letter from the National Attorney, and I am not going to take it up again. In the summer of 2005, when the Storting debated a question of further action in the field of police methods to avert serious organised crime and terrorism, there was a broad outburst and great willingness in the Storing to engage in dialogue in order to find the rules needed to combat crime on the ground of the rule of law. It was then opened that you would come back to the questions that I am addressing today in the interpellation. When I travel the interpellation, it's because I think it's been a while since 2005. I notice that we have a lot of public debate about something that may be similar to the methods. I also note that parts of the political debate leave conflicting impressions – it is fully legitimate – but then it may be time to create more certainty and predictability. I have to add that in my former role in life, I have actually been doing some travel activities just to look at the fight against organized crime and also at the methods that this is about today. Travel activities brought in contact with police authorities in as different countries as the United States, Canada, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Australia, to take some examples. If I'm going to take the card version, from countries in Europe, it must be that the legal regulation of these methods came at the time when a major scandal had first occurred, and in some cases the lives of policemen had been lost. In other words, you didn't succeed in fighting the crime you were going to fight, and then you had lost your life trying to fight it. It's an expensive price to pay. That's why I think it's wise that we do what we can in a country like Norway, that we use the law as a basis for moving further into these challenging landscapes. Let's not leave any doubt. I think doing the work called infiltration, or what the "nynorse" calls "under cover", is very demanding. Is there something I have learned from those who work with it, and also from pioneers in this field here in Norway, that it takes a lot by recruiting to get the people who are going to live with it. You have to be very careful about how long they're going to live with it. You have to be very careful about what to do afterwards, and it requires systematics in how to do the infiltration, and it requires systematics in how to deal with the informants – a topic that is very topical in the ongoing public debate on many relevant issues in the judiciary. It also requires that this be seen in the context of a comprehensive witness protection programme. In the case of provocation, which can be explained in popular language so that one can act in such a way that one triggers a criminal act that would otherwise have been committed at an earlier time than it was committed, it is also challenging in very many ways. I have promoted the interpellation now because I believe that we in Norway are in a good situation that when we take debates in good time, we can also create the basis that enables us to move on safely. I am concerned that this is important because any fight against crime, including the fight against organised crime, must be done on the ground of the rule of law. There are then some basic principles relating to legal regulation, judicial review and reprobability. I am absolutely convinced that it is absolutely necessary that those who are asked to make an effort on behalf of the rule of law in order to combat serious organised crime – i.e. policemen and informants who assist the police – know where the framework should be. Then I have a deep understanding of the considerations that have come out in public, that you don't have to do this in such a way that it will almost be possible for an organized criminal environment to check out the people. But I am convinced that by learning from good practice in other countries that operate this – and that is the case in Europe in countries such as the Netherlands and the United Kingdom – I am sure that we can have a legal framework and a legislative process that provides the framework, but at the same time provides opportunities to carry out police work in a satisfactory way. So it creates a legal certainty framework in relation to the legal state. It creates important tools for police action. It would be the worst case scenario if the application of methods such as this in Norway would lead to a) loses the case for procedural reasons, and b) for other reasons comes so far that life is also lost. Since that has happened, it is a wise thing to be out in time, and therefore I have allowed myself to ask the question that I have made to the Minister of Justice. I also do it in transparency, because, through what happened in the treatment of police methods in 1999, in the further treatment of legal measures against organised crime in 2003, and also in the treatment of police methods in 2005, it was possible to reach a broad consensus in the United Kingdom on how to do this in a country such as Norway. I think it's important for us to do that, and I think we in Norway have the advantage that we're such a transparent society that if we use our tools in time, there's a lot we can achieve, which maybe isn't as easily achievable in other communities. Now I'm going to be careful to say what the effect of the NOKAS case has been, since we had a run just before the weekend, but it's clear that it shows that efforts against concrete environments – just do it in time – are producing results. I think, unfortunately, that we have to be prepared for the fact that new generations can still come after the generation that is now assessing its issues in the NOKAS question. There is also an additional reason to raise the matter. On this basis, I have then asked the Minister of Justice if he is now prepared to take an initiative to regulate the methods we call infiltration and provocation, and then do so, so that we can continue with what has so far produced good results in Norway, namely, on the ground of the rule of law to fight organised crime and succeed in it. Finally, I would also like to stress that there will probably be demands, so that no one is in doubt about it, of resources to build up this competence, to recruit people and give strength to it. I need to say that, because we politicians, in many ways, are not clear enough, and I want to be clear, because it is a significant competence to stand in such challenging positions as this. I've met people who've done it, at least in other countries, and when you hear their story, it makes an impression. However, it is also believed that competence requires organisation, legislation and resources. On this basis and with these words, the question has been asked to the Minister of Justice by my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e156	Let me first of all welcome this interpellation. It is the first round of debate on police methods in the last six months that, in my opinion, brings the debate into the right forum and onto the right track. In this way I see the representative Dørum has struck the blink. It might not raise so much awareness and not create as much noise in the media as you would have gotten if you, for example. had commented on concrete research on specific issues, but this is the important debate. This is the important debate about what kind of methods the police are actually going to use and, as the representative Dørum, I and several others are concerned about, about what kind of control mechanisms we are going to have around this, and not least about where the responsibility lies, and what kind of distribution we are going to have – who is going to govern the police and prosecution authorities, and who is going to govern the laws and regulations. This is an invitation to just take up a roof politically, on a general basis, about what kind of framework the Norwegian police and prosecution authorities should have in terms of the use of interventional methods, which I must say is important, and which I welcome. I would also like to say that I agree with Mr Dørum that the fight against organised crime has produced important results and that the fight has happened precisely on the ground of the rule of law. I think it makes the measures more effective and that there is no conflict between legal certainty and effectiveness. I also share with the representative Dørum's view that in certain cases there is a need to apply the methods of investigation infiltration and provocation. These methods are not legal today. Infiltration means that a police officer or woman, or someone acting on behalf of the police, actively contacts an environment to which the investigation is directed and receives information by keeping his identity hidden. The relatives with such infiltration are listening after consent and carrying out calls on a phone that the police have come into possession of. Provocation-like measures are characterised by the fact that the police or one acting on behalf of the police are secretly in contact with someone and influence an incident course leading to a criminal offence or to the provision of evidence of a criminal offence that has already been committed. The legal scope for the use of such methods of investigation is now essentially influenced by two types of legal sources. This is primarily a case-law – we have extensive opinions from the Supreme Court on how far you can go – and also the guidelines from the Riksadvokat, as mentioned by the representative of Dørum. In NOU 2004:6, between efficiency and privacy, proposals for law enforcement of infiltration and provocation as methods for preventing crime are made. I agree with the sample – and I also interpret this as a representative of Dørum – that these methods are of such a nature that, in the future, it should be essentially the Storing that sets out the detailed framework for their use. However, the issue of lawmaking also includes other issues. Infiltration and provocation are not only used for prevention purposes but also during the investigation of criminal incidents that have taken place. It is also close to assessing whether other methods that are currently illegal should be regulated, such as: Excitation. Legislation on infiltration and provocation-like measures must not unduly impair their effectiveness or endanger police officers or informants. As I see it, there is a need for a broad assessment of the many questions raised if these methods are to be legislated, and the task is well suited to a sample. The government will appoint a new method selection in a short time. I see it so that the sample first has to deal with some other and more urgent issues than the question of legislating infiltration and provocation. A main task of the sample will be to carry out a post-control of the legal provisions on in-depth investigation methods. A back-testing was a premise for the introduction of the methods and may reveal whether they had the meaning intended and whether the interests of privacy and legal certainty towards the suspect and other persons concerned have been adequately safeguarded. Another important task for this sample will be to review the rules on information protection and access to documents. It may then be appropriate to mandate a sample to assess regulatory regulation of infiltration and provocational measures. But from what I have said, it turns out that I will not now start work with a view to legal regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e177	I would like to thank the Council of State for a clear and clear response, to which I would like to make some comments. Firstly, I think it is good that we now have an evaluation of the police methods put in place. It will give us important feedback about what we've got, and what we're going to learn from it. Secondly, I fully agree that it is important to look at how to handle informants and documents. This was in due course linked to the debate in Stortinget on § 242a of the Criminal Procedures Act. So I see that the council says he won't do it now. When the Council of State first puts down this sample, I would probably strongly encourage him to let step three in the sample work be looking at the legal regulation of infiltration and provocation. Such work was already done by the sample leading to the 2005 review. So there's been some work done. I'm not saying that's what you're going to copy, but I get to express myself in a slightly thoughtful way and say that in Norway we don't want to do anything until we have to do it. From my political experience, I know it's an advantage to do something before you have to do it. I know well the structures in our society that make you get these reflections of prudence. You could say something positive about it. This means that you have to be slow about important questions. But then you could say something negative about it as well, and that's that you often get a little bit behind. The reason why I now want to encourage the Council of State to include the third point on infiltration and provocation in addition to the two excellent mission points of the new method selection, which I fully support, is that we should not get into a situation where you risk losing a case or being injured or lost. I assume and fully agree with the Minister of Justice that when you review the legislation here – we also have experience from other countries – it happens in such a way that those who are going to fight crime in the name of the law have a framework that is also manageable. I think we'll be able to do that. I also think there is a handshake for those who are going to do the job on behalf of the state of law, that they know that the state of law has given them a legal basis for that. It's not because there's something wrong in itself with what we've deliberately chosen for now, the Riksadvokat's circular and what the Council of State also refers to, court case-law up to the Supreme Court, but because I think it's up to time to be ahead of it, too. In addition to thanking for a clean and constructive response and for an important sample, I would strongly encourage the Council of State to include regulatory regulation of the methods of infiltration and provocation as a third point in the work of the sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e188	I'll be very short. I take that signal with me when we are now working on mandates for the sample. I believe that we largely agree on the description of the needs. But at the same time, a lot is happening in the field of methodology, and it's important and urgent tasks that need to be solved. I also believe that we should be careful, so that we take care that the law of the methods does not restrict the police's ability to conduct effective investigations. This is a demanding matter to go into, but I think the representative, by his interpellation, is just making it clear what kind of serious treatment should be subjected to. The Ministry is now actively working on the questions of document access, which is known to Stortinget. In a letter to the Ministry of Justice, the Advocate General proposed an immediate amendment to the law relating to access to documents by his or her vis-à-vis his or her vis-à-vis the public. These are proposals that are now being consulted, or have been at the hearing, and the Ministry of Justice is working on their follow-up. The new selection of methods to be appointed should be entrusted with a more comprehensive review of the rules on access to documents. But it's like this -- as it's probably in most fields -- that we get to do something at once, and what I think has been the most urgent now is put in place the rules of document access, which I've seen that the Storting has also been concerned about. That's what we're now giving priority to getting delivered to Stortinget as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e197	The fight against organized crime is a difficult battle. We see that the criminal environment is constantly evolving, with ever more advanced equipment. We also see a development that erases borders. As a result, the police are facing more difficult tasks now than before. I have also seen that the new police methods have borne fruit, and I have no doubt that infiltration along with snooping is an important and correct method to use for the police. It is probably also necessary in many contexts to prevent serious crime and to solve serious crime. What is important here is that a constant awareness of the assumptions underlying the new methods of legal certainty and privacy. I personally have a bigger problem with that we allow provocation as a method to some extent. Here we are faced with some ethical dilemmas that I think are a little bit more difficult to deal with. The fact that the public can use methods that influence an incident course, so that one or more people commit criminal acts, is a particularly difficult field, I think. I therefore look forward to the new method selection, which the Government has announced, presenting its work. I believe that we need a back-testing of the legal provisions on in-depth investigation methods. I also believe that the Storting as legislator needs a certainty that the new methods, including those that are not regulated, are being used as intended. It may also be considered that the work provided by the notified sample of methods may point to a need for regulatory regulation also for infiltration and provocation. But there's too soon to shoot. Personally, I'm glad that the government is now putting down a method selection, so that you can get a certainty that the methods we've opened up to are used after the intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e208	First, pay tribute to the representative Dørum for addressing a very interesting topic, which is not at all simple, but which is fascinating in many ways, because it gives us some dilemmas in relation to the police's armshake in combating the most serious crime, while at the same time challenging legal certainty and some of the principles of the rule of law in relation to how far we should go. But what I think we can agree on is that we need tough methods to fight the toughest crime. If we're not willing to go in and look at this, we're doing ourselves a bear service at worst, and we're facilitating increased and gross crime – and I don't think any of us really want that. In this way, the challenge for us politicians is to find a balance point between the different balances. On that occasion you can refer back to the matter you had about the methods in the previous period. At that time, Stortinget was very clear that to the extent that untraditional methods are to be used, one should also have and involve judicial control. It's a balance point that's important to bring with it. In my opinion, it is the challenge to include infiltration and provocation as well – both how far to go and how to use it. Then it is also necessary to look at how to use it, and whether the function is important in relation to what the Storting wanted. I believe that this kind of debate that we are going to have on this today is important. It's important that it's discussed in full transparency, and that it's wide-ranging. I also think it's important to get the footage from everyone involved, it's for defence lawyers, prosecution authorities and those who use the code maybe on both sides of what the law is supposed to apply to. Those recordings I think it's important to look at. Another thing that we should look at is the cases where there are judgments where this law has been used, to see if the law meets what the legislator wanted in its time. In that case – if it hits – nothing is better than that. If it doesn't match what we wanted, the Storting has an access to do something with it – and a long way to go, at my discretion, an obligation to do something about it. For the Progress Party, we will follow the line of the Council of State. We're per. Today we are not sure that we should legislate here, and if we are going to do so, then it should come as part of a much bigger case than an interpellation debate – with all possible respect for the representative of Dørum. In this context, we believe that one of the most important things we do is to ensure that policemen who are going to do the toughest jobs feel that they have the necessary security that makes it proper for them to go into this. In addition, I believe that the initiative of the Council of State – he mentioned in his intervention instead of a new methodology – will make sense. I also believe that in this context we should look at the possible legalisation of infiltration and provocation, and that there must be a broad discussion of benefits and disadvantages by going that way. Then the representative Dørum in his second post stated that we have a tradition in Norway for sometimes not doing anything until we have to, and that it often gets too late. There's also something we're going to bring with us. One of our jobs is to seek to be in the forefront of preventing and preventing the most serious crime and other societal problems we face. It is often an animal-bought experience when Stortinget has to do a job after a real error. We could have discussed some of the issues around NOKAS, we could have discussed other issues that show that we had been better prepared, we might have gotten better overall. I agree with the Council of State that one should hurry slowly. At the same time, there is a danger of waiting too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e229	The framework for provocation and infiltration is an unusually important issue, not least from a legal certainty perspective. The extent to which the police can go in order to facilitate crime and thus detect possible crime is a very fundamental issue in a society based on human rights. The State of law shall ensure justice and equal rights for all its citizens, including those involved in serious crime. That is why there must also be clear limits to which authority initiatives that can be accepted before impunity for criminal activity results. Today, this is determined in the light of quite thorough ethical and legal considerations and, as legislator, we have provisionally accepted that the limits are drawn up through case-law and through that circular from the Riksadvokat. It is in many ways a little strange that the legislator has thus not chosen to give legal rules in an area that can be absolutely crucial to the individual’s legal certainty. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we would like to give Dørum a boost to ask questions about whether the regulation for both provocation and infiltration should be legalised and thus subject to democratic control. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we want the Stortinget to receive such a proposal as quickly as possible, preferably through a prior examination in a sample. In fact, it is important for us that the legislation also has a democratic anchor in this area. It's also important from the crime scene we're now seeing. Developments are in the direction of better organisation, increased flexibility and cooperation between different criminal networks. We also see increased internationalisation and increased mobility, and therefore also a rather demanding task for the police. In addition, the analysis and threat assessments by the P.D.P.P.D. indicate that, for example: The threat of terrorism against Norway has increased recently. This is part of today's reality. The challenge therefore for political authorities is to decide how far the police are going to go in order to detect this serious crime. Perhaps the Stortinget will find that the court-made rules of provocation are somewhat too tight. Perhaps today's legal situation will be confirmed by formal law. There is no one given to predict such an outcome today. The Christian People's Party today provides a proposal for a representative containing several measures for increased security. In this context, we propose inter alia: to lay down rules on provocation and to extend in concrete terms access to such provocation in constituencies. I would like to point out that a law anchoring the framework for provocation and infiltration is also important to give legitimacy to the police's difficult work to expose serious crime. It is important to have as free and open a debate as possible on police methods. So until the Minister of Justice said in his speech. As far as I could hear, Minister of Justice Storberget said that he was unsure whether a billing could limit the police's ability to investigate, in relation to today's situation. This could indicate that the legislator almost preferred not to know what is going on, because a law anchoring might set a tighter framework for provocation and infiltration than is the practice of today. I would like to challenge the Minister of Justice to be a little clearer about what he meant by that statement, and what he really aims at. I hope it is not such that we do not tolerate a discussion in the open room about what methods the police should have. Whether or not we as legislators are prepared to give the necessary powers must be the result of an open and free debate. You shouldn't be afraid to have that debate in the open room.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e252	It's an interesting interpellation the representative Dørum is presenting today. He shall have the honour of, because infiltration and provocation are a difficult and serious problem. In particular, I would like to see provocation as an extra difficult problem. As the representative Ellingsen said, the Progress Party has not concluded, and we will not conclude here and now on this issue, and we are attending an assessment and the sample that the Council of State will put down. We look forward to evaluating this with excitement. When you're going to create a legal text that's going to go into this, it's both a plus and a minus for a law change. A couple of pluses for law enforcement will be that we get to decide what is clear within the police's legal methods. By lawmaking, we can clearly determine which methods you can use. The legislator will then also have direct control of the methods and scope of this. What speaks against lawmaking is that the methods can become very open and very visible to the criminals. Of course, the criminals will adapt to the police framework provided by the legislator. It will also be legally difficult to regulate some of these fields. What are the consequences for each official if you go too far? Is it going to have consequences for him, or are you just going to see it as an illegal evidence that the court can intercept the use of? These are some pluses and negatives that I've noted, which the Council of State may be able to take with it in connection with the sample to be reduced. We will then just wait in suspense to get this case to Stortinget. I want to give the Council of State a boost for him to reduce a sample, and that he will look widely at this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e265	It's a very interesting question that the representative Dørum is going to raise here. Because in Norway it is enough today that in some criminal cases it is absolutely necessary to come into contact with the criminal environment through the use of both provocation and infiltration. The legal use of such investigation methods is now subject to a limit, as stated by the Minister of Justice, the case law and guidelines of the National Attorney General. The question is whether this is good enough and whether it is not the size that should define the framework for its use. What types of methods and what control mechanisms should we actually have? There's a lot of questions. I'm very pleased that a new method selection will soon be launched, where this theme can also become relevant. Having heard the answer to the Minister of Justice, I agree that it is not a change of law that we should give priority to first, but that it is important that we first take the broad and good debate. It's also important that we don't rush, so that we end up limiting the police's work methods. That's not what we're after. It's said here that new police methods have all drilled fruits, and that's true. We are also still developing our police methods. But I thought that the ethical balance of provocation is one of the most difficult things here. The whole issue is both complex and difficult, so I support the Minister of Justice that we must now move slowly. That doesn't mean we're going to stop discussing the topic, but on the contrary, we need to discuss it more, and we need to discuss it in very broad forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e276	I allow myself to draw a comparison. In February - March 1995 I travelled as a citizen in Oslo to the theme of organized crime for deaf deafness. When there is deafening silence in Norway, there are two reasons: most people do not understand what is going on, or it is not politically correct to take it up. Today, I have met with a unanimous agreement, with the exception of the representative Syversen. I wonder that with the background and experience I have, I should imagine a regulation that would in practice reduce the police's efforts to combat organised crime. I let the thought that it would be my intention fall upon its own unreasonableness. On the other hand, I am quite so convinced that, as I was eight years ago when I was responsible for presenting a case to the European Parliament on police methods, it must be done according to three principles: it is regulated, it is judicially controlled, and it is verifiable. When it actually takes place in this country, through the EOS Committee, to find a rather fine-looking balance in terms of the security of the state – so we are able to create institutional rules – I have to say that I do not have so little faith in either the legislative apparatus in Norway, the prosecution authorities or the police that I believe they are unable to produce legislation that is functionally useful. Of course I don't. It must fall on its own unfairness if the legislator were to draw up a sort of list of illegal measures that the police could be allowed to do in the name of the law, so that they can almost be checked out of cases in relation to infiltration. There are many other ways to approach the law that would make it very correct and reassuring, but there is no time and opportunity to go into it now. So I have to admit that, in order to express myself in parliamentary terms, I am somewhat surprised at the assumption that legal regulation would make this difficult. I have to say that Stortinget has had considerable boldness for example. in the work on the grooming paragraph – the work to combat sexual abuse against children online – to address tight provocation situations. It must be a guarantee for those who are going to work in those situations, that the rules of the game are such that you do not lose the case in the end – then we really have a setback. So I can't see that in the fight against organized crime, because you have to do two things, you have to wait with the third. I always tend to count to three, and the Minister of Justice spoke excellently to one, saying that we're going to evaluate what we've done. That's good. Point 2: It is very important to look at the protection of informants and access to documents. Point 3: There must be every reason to give it protection for the State of law, and not least for those who work in this landscape, to look at the methods of provocation/infiltration. I think we have come to that time, and I sincerely hope that those who do not now have the will to do this have considered very carefully whether we in Norway should not experience what has happened in other countries, that we have both lost things and lost lives. I sincerely hope that you will not experience it, so I prefer to be the leader was. I note that I did not receive broad support, but the representative Syversen was an encouraging beam of light in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e286	I don't know if I can contribute to any more light in the debate, but I just want to clarify some ambiguities that I think we are taking to income for when the Progress Party and the government parties want to approach this in the way that one does. First of all, if you have to count to three every time you're in a situation and think that there's a need here, and the representative of Dørum in 1995 became aware of the issues, I wonder if you didn't think so far when you had five to six years in the Ministry of Justice to come up with the proposals. That's not how it is. As I said in my post, we just want to do a pretty significant job in relation to post-control methods. I have said that I prioritise this spring in relation to Stortingen to do what Stortinget has also been concerned about in terms of making clear rules regarding document access, so that the police are not unduly affected. It is a very good example of regulations and case-law where we need to be particularly careful when designing the rules so that they do not have unintended effects. Our experience with access to documents is a very good example of how important it is that we make rules that enable the police to use the methods and to manage them. I believe these are the issues I have tried to raise in terms of infiltration and provocation, not what the representative Syversen tried to impose on me, that we should not tolerate a discussion. Rather, on the contrary, I kept saying, that's what we're inviting, and, as also the representative Nistad was in, that's what you take the time and want to have. Because if we're going to start legislating infiltration and provocation, it has to be a framework that you can actually use, and that you can understand, and that, in my opinion, gives the police the space that is needed to be effective in the fight against organized crime, so that we don't make legal rules just to have done it and then lend us back, and then the police suddenly see that we've got permits that restrict the possibilities of the police. I'm more than willing to take that debate out in public space – yes, that's why I'm answering like that in the Storting today. So I strongly reject that we are in any way opposed to taking this debate. I think it is important – I also said in the beginning that it is important that this debate should be raised. But then we have to have legal rules and a process around the law that helps to make the police more effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e295	Case No. So 1 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e313	Rape is one of the worst acts a human being can be subjected to. Research shows that many people choose to commit suicide after rape. Others become depressed, lose concentration, sleep, appetite, study and work. If you lose your job and work, you lose the financial security that is the basis for well-being and personal development. There were reports of 904 rapes and attempted rapes in Norway in 2005. That's 904 cases too much. The vast majority of abuses are committed in the private sphere, but also in the public space there is an assault. During this debate, we will focus on the violent wave that Oslo has experienced, but we must always be clear that the vast majority of the rapes in Norway are committed at home. Nearly two thirds of the offences were committed in private housing, showing figures from the police district of Oslo in 2004. Men are also being raped. Let me first say a few words about the situation in Oslo. Many women in Oslo have been subjected to rape or attempted rape in a very short time – the last of which is today morning. The victims are going through the worst period of their lives, and many Oslo women are now afraid to go on the streets alone after the dawn of darkness. In our democracy, we cannot have it so that half the population is afraid to be in the public space. Security and security are a fundamental element of democracy and a welfare state. I invite the Minister of Justice to share his thoughts with the Stortinget on what measures can be taken to ensure that Oslo's women and men regain their safety as soon as possible. It is important for a civilised society and a democracy that upholds human rights, that the ruling powers do everything in their power to prevent sexualized violence. It is primarily about creating attitudes among men, and we should like to start at an early age. It is now that we teach our children and young people to sort junk in high school. It can therefore be quite natural and affordable to demand sex-related violence, that setting limits and showing respect for these limits are included as a fixed part of the primary school syllabus. In addition, a feminist self-defence course should be introduced in schools, where girls are introduced to simple self-defence techniques that can be decisive in an attack case. The woman who was assaulted this morning managed to get away by sitting in opposition. It is important that society takes a critical look at the conditions in public space. We need to use land-use planning to reduce the risk of abuse in the public space. Well-lit streets can make a good contribution to promoting the sense of security and actual security. We should look at whether our parks should have brighter lights than today, and shrubs should be of such a height that the surroundings are transparent. Business life is an important player and should be a partner in preventing abuse. Employees may take greater responsibility for the safety of their guests. Employees should be given increased skills to capture if something undesirable is about to happen. The objective should be to make the taxi industry an obliging partner of the public in terms of prevention, in order to make cities safer. The ice cream industry is everywhere in the cityscape. They can be good co-players in capturing suspicious behaviour, both to prevent and to solve sexual abuse. A taxi driver can help to increase the safety of e.g.: to stand and wait until the passenger has locked himself into the entrance and waved goodbye. We need to see whether the night bus offer should be expanded, so that people come home safely with public transport and relatively little money in their pockets. Some states have given girls the opportunity to take a cab home for a fifty-counter, to prevent them from hacking uncertainly, taking a pirate trick or going alone. This is a measure that should be considered in general. On the preventive side, we can safely mention higher penalties for abuse. Higher penalties will, hopefully, be preventative, while increasing the motivation for reporting abuses. The victims experience a report of a rape as a burden. If the result is correction, acquittal, or an unwarranted low sentence, they feel even more bored. Pain is multiplying. We have to be able to assess whether certain streets should be closed periodically or permanently. A requirement that is often promoted, and which will undoubtedly help secure our streets, is visible police. I would like to mention here the possibility for municipalities to set up a more functional and real police council locally. Such advice may help to improve the flow of information. In most cases, alcohol is involved. Society needs to look at how we can limit access to alcohol. When abuse is first a reality, it is important that victims have legal protection and after-sales protection. It has now been decided to set up a body of rape in all the counties. These receptions must be put in place as soon as possible. In addition, they must be made available in real terms. In pig-grown counties, there may be long distances that appear to be depressing for the purpose of seeking help, not least for the purpose of securing traces of the attack. In Oslo, the rapist and the state are arguing about who is going to pay to follow up the victims. This kind of debate in public space is unworthy and sends false signals to the victims. It is necessary to ensure that the victims are properly offered at the reception of the rape of Oslo. The debate on who is to be paid must be held afterwards and at the Chamber. Unfortunately, in the phase where the abuse is a fact, the health services, the police and the judiciary must have good competence. We need to ensure that the health sisters have the skills both at school and at health centres to catch girls who may be struggling with an assault, and to provide them with good help, both mentally and physically. They need to know where to refer the girls. In the case of a health care sister, the girls must be able to receive help and support to assess whether to report the offence. The help seek threshold must be low. There are countless examples of girls struggling with an assault waiting for longer periods of time to get psychiatric help. There is an average of almost three months waiting time for children and adolescents and barely two months for adults for psychiatric treatment. It goes without saying that a girl who struggles with an assault does not get much better by waiting for help – rather on the contrary. The escalation plan for mental health should strengthen competence in this area and the status of victims of rape should be raised. I hear that both the Minister of Justice and several others believe that one of the biggest problems with sexual abuse is that there is no status in working with neither preventive, investigatory nor rehabilitating work in the area of rape. That's too bad. When the national parliament now discusses the theme in plenary, I hope we send a strong signal that we mean something else. I am sure that all parties at Stortinget believe that rape is a serious offence to be taken seriously, prevented, investigated, and that the victims should be treated with respect. Some have been concerned with ethnic backgrounds of the attackers. It doesn't matter to me – and I guess for the victims as well – what the background is. It is nevertheless imperative for me to point out strongly that I do not like the figures presented in the media, which say that, unfortunately, men with a minority background are overrepresented in the statistics. It is important that men with a minority background engage in the debate – important because we have a common society where we have a common responsibility for the security of all, including girls. We have to go into the numbers that say men with a minority background are overrepresented in statistics, with transparency. The overgrowth is found in all cultures. We have to dry down the debate, then find reasons and start the right actions. We know that reporting a rape is a heavy burden on the victims. The burden is not assumed to be lower — opposite — if the woman has a minority background. It is important to start work among women with a minority background, where it is encouraged to report the rapes. Conditions need to be made right for it. I invite the important, positive and influential forces in the minority community to participate in the debate. It's our joint responsibility. A concrete proposal may be that we have a set-aside theme in the introduction programme. Oslo shall be a safe and secure city, and I am open to hear what the Minister of Justice has to say to make Oslo, and the country otherwise, a safe place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e351	Let there be no doubt that I share the interpellant's concern about the situation in Oslo, but also about the situation elsewhere in the whole country. The representative Chaudhry was involved in the distribution of the rape crimes, those that happen out in the public room, and those that happen at home with people. I have to say, with all due respect, that it is a cross of thought that these debates come when the rapes happen on the street, while we know that there are many who suffer in the quiet, and who never get the attention of this cruel crime, which I have seen as a near-drap. That was also the reason why the government wanted as early as possible after we joined, to deal with this type of violation, both in the matter of violence in close relations and rape. That is the background – when we now experience this media debate and the situation in Oslo, that there are actions that we believe can be effective in raising the status of bringing these cases with greater weight into the entire criminal justice area. I am not able to dwell on all the challenges the representative raises, but I believe that he is on a key track in this discussion on the issue of raising these issues, along with other kinds of issues, in particular violence against women and violence against children in close relations – I kept saying – to a different and more intense level than what we have traditionally seen in Norwegian criminal justice. This is not to be demeaned for all the competent actors we have, but we're still meeting because it's low status working on these questions. For my part, it has been important at my meetings with both judges and policemen, police officers and employees in the criminal service to say that this is part of the Norwegian crime scene that we are totally dependent on getting serious. A little bit about the situation in Oslo. In the course of a few months now, the police have received 16 reports of rape or attempted rape only in the Oslo area. In the same period, 45 requests were received from the rape ward of Oslo Medical Caregiver. Whether this is the beginning of a ‘wave’ — as several media have characterized the situation in the last few days — or a rash of randomness — it is difficult to have a clear view of preliminary developments. The increase in the number of reports may be a signal that more rapes are being committed, but it can also reflect an increasing willingness to report crime, i.e. that the numbers of darkness are decreasing. Increased focus in recent years on violence against women may have led to a lower level of taboo on rape, while increased trust in police and relief services and led to more people choosing to report. There is a grip on this type of crime both by the former government and by the current government before we got such relationships as we have now. However, regardless of how the figures are to be interpreted, it is very important that these cases are now followed up in a good manner in the police and in the emergency services, so that the perpetrators are taken and the victims receive the necessary assistance and care. Yes, part of the purpose of criminal justice is in fact to clarify matters, so that the perpetrator is held responsible. As far as rape is concerned, we have often had debates on the level of penalties. The government has said that we should have a debate on this when we are going to make a new penal code, and that penalties should be tightened for this type of crime. But I would warn very strongly against making it a debate on just that. That's 95 pst. Of the girls raped in Norway, it is felt that no punishment is ever imposed. Many have not started criminal proceedings. When such criminal proceedings are initiated, it turns out that they are often difficult to investigate. It has been seen that there is little or no evidence in the case, so that the doubt becomes strong for those who are opponents in relation to identifying what has actually happened. If we look at the country otherwise: 904 rapes and attempted rapes were reported in 2005. This was an increase from 2004, where the corresponding figure was 836. The dark figures for this type of crime are assumed to be very large, and we therefore know little about how many rapes actually occur every year. In Denmark it is estimated that 25 pst. report a rape, and in Sweden it is estimated that only between 10 and 20 pst. Notifies sexual offences. It says something about the dilemma in relation to the challenges we face, especially when it comes to bringing these matters to justice. So little about the type of rape. In 2004, the police district rape survey analysing cases revealed that almost two thirds of all offences occurred in private homes. So while we have a debate – a price-effective debate – about rapes that occur in public space, which are serious enough, we know that there is a much greater number of domestic abuses – that are just going on and on and that in many ways deserve much public attention. In 22 p.m. of the cases — i.e. where the offence occurred at home — the reported perpetrator was current or former partner or girlfriend. 17 of the 150 rapes reported in Oslo in 2004 were defined as rapes. The media have, in general, focused their attention on assault violence. The background to this is likely that these abuses, as well as major traumas to the individual victim, have consequences far beyond the rape itself. Infringements create fears and insecurity in the general population, thus boosting public interest to a greater extent than in private homes. The main gravity of the sexual abuses that take place every year remains hidden in this way. There's no reason to minimize what's happening at home, and there's no reason to minimize that the abuses are carried out by someone who's in close relation to the victim. First of all, it's a lack of trust in dimensions. Secondly, this happens in an arena where the woman or the child or the person who is subjected to either sexual assault, violence or threat of violence cannot travel from without. I find reason to stress that we need to intensify our efforts in relation to this type of infringement. I will make sure that the work to combat violence and abuse in close relationships should therefore continue to have a great deal of attention. As part of this work, the Government has now set up a temporary state secretarial committee such as the shall provide measures to strengthen efforts in this area. But we also want ongoing action regardless of this sample. I remember that before the weekend we published that we want to tighten up the rules of the Victim Compensation Act, so that the children like, among other things. bear witness to violence in close relationships, having the possibility of obtaining compensation for victims of violence if they have not yet received it. So little about the measures that are now being taken. Firstly, on 1 September 2006, the Government appointed a separate selection, which we have called the Rape Committee, to propose measures to improve the situation of women and men who have been raped and other sexualised violence. Among other things, there are: propose measures and strategies to increase the frequency of notification of rape cases and assess whether and how organised indirect and direct dialogue between the subject of the rape and the offender can be an instrument in the rehabilitation process of the subject of the rape. The committee has also been asked to identify how the victims of the rape experience the meeting with the public service and to assess the extent to which today’s assistance and financial support schemes meet the overall need for assistance that the victim actually has. This is part of the term of office of the Rapports Committee. Then the Stortinge is aware that the Riks lawyer has set up a separate working group on the basis of the fact that the percentage of acquittals in rape cases, according to available statistics, has been very high for several years. This working group will report as early as March, and we will receive the RAC report in October. So we get a good basis for debate on effective action in relation to this. I would also like to mention that we are working on the follow-up to the Committee's position, as well as the working group's report entitled 'Ah, it's insult, it's curse'. It has in itself many good measures, which we expect to get to Stortinget, and which will be relevant to those who are subjected to such a serious crime as rape is in fact. Finally, I mention briefly what you do in relation to health care. Incentives have been granted for the establishment and upgrading of reception functions for victims of violence and rape by at least one intercommunal medical practitioner in each state, so that there is a civil offer to go to, which I believe is essential in order to contribute to ensuring evidence. I would also like to refer to what the Government has now implemented from 1 January. Those who are subject to a rape shall have the opportunity to obtain an aid lawyer at the public cost before the notification is made – this is precisely to try to obtain good advice, good evidence assurance, and activity against those who are subjected to such a serious crime, so as to ensure that such a case can be reported. The police need to get into the matter more quickly so that evidence can be guaranteed – and in this way also ensure a judicial process leading to a conviction. Finally, it's also my opinion that what you're doing now in relation to a DNA reform will be important steps to get more common judges in the rape cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e393	I thank you for a very good contribution from the Minister of Justice. We all agree that good and solid measures are needed to ensure that girls and boys in Oslo – and in the rest of the country – feel safe. These measures need to be short-term and long-term in such a way as to ensure the safety of rogues, in particular, which are now undergoing an arousal period. I brought up a few concrete things with the Minister of Justice. I would very much like the Minister of Justice to reflect on this by getting into a compulsory primary school frontier subject, because at first it is a matter of attitude-creating work. Nothing is better than that we create attitudes from the beginning, when our children and young people are at school. I also know that the Minister of Justice has met with the Oslo police. We have received a brief report from the talks that the Minister of Justice has had with the police, and it might be interesting for Stortinget to get an insight into these conversations. I would also like to ask whether the Minister of Justice has had contact with the political leadership in Oslo. That's how we work on each of our tues. The other day, the Prime Minister, along with his staff and another government councillor in one of the streets of Oslo, went to learn. In the other street went Right's political direction. I wonder if the Minister of Justice has had some talks with Oslo's management to see what can be done to make girls and boys more secure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e406	I just want to say in the beginning that one of the big challenges, which I didn't come up with in my post, is that those who are subjected to rape and sexual assault, experience that the trial meeting is a new offense. This is what we are aiming to do, because we cannot serve the fact that those who are subjected to this type of abuse feel that it is so burdensome to go through the criminal justice system that they choose not to do so. It is the follow-up to one of these working group reports. So the representative Chaudhry asks me about mandatory school boundaries, as I understand him. I believe it is essential that we have a Norwegian school — and insofar as other types of activities are also aimed at learning how to deal with adult life, in particular — which is ready to limit. I think what's happening at school is pretty clear about this with sexual abuse. But it could be that there's more to pick up in relation to this. Then I think in particular of the violence that affects women and children in close relationships. This is not just a question of demarcation, but of giving children in Norwegian schools who experience this type of abuse, either as a witness or as a seaman, opportunities and venues to say so. It's a problem that I mean, among other things. The state secretarial committee, which we have now set up, should look at this in order to help more people report abuses. I believe that the main challenge is actually there. So the interpellant asked me about my contact with the Oslo police. It is absolutely right that I have contact with the Oslo police, and I have also had contact with the political leadership in Oslo in relation to this matter, but also in other matters – informally and formally. There's no point in sitting here on each of your tue and saying that this is your responsibility, or that this is just my responsibility or our responsibility. But the media would like it to be that if you point out the responsibilities of others, that is what is included – not that you also underline your own responsibilities. But it's up to us if we're going to create more security in Oslo, if we're going to get up the responsibility that lies at local level. We have discussed this here in the Chamber before, related to the provision of tokens and related to the provision of leisure time. I believe what we are doing now to establish police councils, gives good opportunities to put in place the mutual responsibility that exists between the central authorities, judicial authorities, other authorities and the municipal authorities. The discussions we have had with the Oslo police have been very constructive, and have given me the basis for saying that the investigation you have had in the last few days has been very solid. Much of the debate on the Oslo Police effort seems to me to have been unfair to the Oslo Police. But it has also given me good reasons to look at how we are going to strengthen the situation of the Oslo Police.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e419	As women, we have the right and the right to live our lives in security and freedom. It is this freedom that is restricted when women are afraid to move out of Oslo's streets in fear of rape. It is our integrity that is violated by the uncertainty that we are now seeing created. This is not a situation in which the gender equality country of Norway can live. It is therefore important that violence against women and sexualised violence, such as rape, be strongly focused. At the same time, we must take into account that most of the rapes committed are not rapes, which have been committed by both the interpellant and the Minister of Justice. Most rapes happen at home and are committed by men known to women. This can explain both the great numbers of darkness and the very large percentage of deposition we see in rape cases. The threshold for reporting a rape committed by someone you know well is high. It's also more difficult to prove the rape than the rape. This is one of the most serious challenges we face when it comes to rape. Only 9 pst. of notified rapes in 2005 ended in judgment. This is unsustainable. When so few rape cases lead to a conviction, we have to ask whether we safeguard the legal certainty of women. Therefore, the Government’s efforts to strengthen the legal certainty of the raped are both important and correct, with greater certainty of evidence and the follow-up of victims of abuse. I am pleased that the Minister of Justice stressed this so strongly in his reply. We're going to take women's fear of moving in Oslo's streets seriously. But I am very afraid that we are now creating a situation where it becomes the women's responsibility to prevent rape, when we are encouraged to use pepper spray, take a self-defense course or taxi home. First of all, I'm afraid we're emptying the streets for women. Then the criminals won the fight over the streets. Then there are those who want to violate the integrity of women, who have won. Secondly, not many of these measures protect against the large part of the rapes that occur. In addition, I am afraid that we are imposing an extra burden on women who have been raped because they do not protect themselves well enough. But most importantly, it's not women's responsibility to prevent rape. It's society's responsibility. I think the newspaper Marie Simonsen formulated this very precisely in his comment on Saturday. She believes that society's reactions to sexualized violence indicate that we look differently at rape than at other types of violence. These matters do not have the status enough. Studies show that the victim may appear to be as close to the attacker as he is. She concludes by supporting the Minister of Justice's view that the gender perspective is undervalued, and supports the Government's efforts to prevent sexual violence against women. This is how society must combat sexual abuse — through resources to prevent and solve this type of crime, by being very clear that we do not accept rapes, by more stringent penalties and by giving status to these kinds of cases in healthcare, police, prosecution and justice. We don't believe that women's freedom and integrity are being violated. Therefore, society must and must take responsibility for preventing rape, not women.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e434	First, I would like to thank Mr Chaudhry for raising an important issue. I am also very pleased that he took it up in as wide a width as he did. I appreciate that very much, and he should have respect and honor for having done that. I guess that's also the case, as many people have been involved here, that rape is undoubtedly one of the worst things you could be exposed to. It's also a fact that it's about whether the victim is a woman or a man. So I guess it would have been okay if we could have found the answer to why men do this -- for primarily, men do it. Had we found out about that gene or the mechanisms that make men resort to that kind of violence, and found out what we're going to do with it, we wouldn't have had this debate. We're probably not going to do that. People are probably going to keep doing that, and then we're going to have to deal with that reality, whether we like it or not. I think that one of the most important things we can do is listen to the experience in relation to what has happened – what you have been exposed to, and why things have arisen and become as they have. Maybe we have to think differently in our criminal regimes. Perhaps men who commit rape should be sentenced to treatment as part of the apparatus. The previous Judicial Committee and this and the Council of State have been involved in and worked with alternatives to violence to help men who have aggressive behaviour in several contexts learn alternative mastering methods to prevent things from escalating. I think a problem like this is more complex than that. I think there are several other measures that can help. Of course, more visible police could be a factor. At the same time, it's unrealistic to think that we can have police on every corner. The representative Chaudhry addresses this with enlightened places, reducing the number of bushes and things that stand out. But I am afraid that if a person has decided to do this, it should be done that he does not find a suitable place to do so. It may be on the rise when the lady is about to lock herself in. If you've come to the point that you choose to do something like this, I think you've got some constraints left. I agree, of course, that we're going to look at all the things that can be done, but I'm more concerned that we're moving one problem from one place to another, when we do part of these things. What we have to do is make sure that resources are in place to prevent, to clear up and to judge in violence. Then I also think, as the representative Chaudhry was about, that we have to look at the mind-creating. I am also pleased that he addressed what we debated last week, the relationship with some of our new countrymen, who contribute far too much in this type of statistics. And I'm pretty sure the immigrant community would have preferred to see this complete. It is not the case that the Norwegians who commit the rape have little less responsibility than others who do. In this way, at least I think we have to hit this hard. This is justified by a different cultural approach, a different cultural background, and a different status for women from Norway. That's a reason that I find totally unacceptable. Because it is that a situation of integrity such as a rape is, there is in a way no explanation for it. And then it is that the criminal regime that society has is one measure to show the severity of it. Mild punishment in rape cases is a provocation against the victim and his family, but perhaps the most serious thing is that it downgrades the severity of what has happened, and I think we should be careful about that. For Oslo's part, there is no doubt, at least in my opinion, that the police lack resources to do part of the things they want. I welcome the invitation of the Council of State to increase the penalties in some of the infringement cases, and I think there is a need to develop further victim and dependant care. Bringing together knowledge is important, so that the right actions can then be taken. That is why it was important for the Progress Party, together with the previous government, to facilitate the family violence project in Westfold in order to gain experience and have a basis for further work on it, which this government has also continued. I think that's important, and I think that's good things. It has been suggested that more should be judged. Yes, in that case, I assume that this is done through proper judicial procedures, so that we do not have to judge anyone else to increase the statistics, but actually because it is proven in this way. So to the head of the Justice Committee who claims that it's society's fault that women are raped: I want to say that women are also part of society. I want to say that everyone has a common responsibility to prevent crime, and I'm also sure that women do the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e456	Since this interpellation was reported, unfortunately the theme has become even more topical, and no later than this morning a new message came about an assault on a woman in a parking garage here in Oslo. Fortunately she got away, but of course she has had a frightening experience. So it's not just the night that can be at risk. The Oslo Police have now mobilised considerable resources, and we know that this is a very demanding investigation. That's why it's so important to get started early. Although it may be very burdensome for the victims, it is my hope that these will contribute even more to the police's work so that we can get a breakthrough and get more perpetrators than has been the case at this time. A few weeks ago, I met a father of a rape victim – a young lady who thought she had taken all precautions, but who still experienced everyone's nightmare, to be assaulted and raped on her way home after a friend visit a Friday night last fall. This was on the Oslo west. At the top of this tragic event was the family meeting with the police that this father wanted to share his experiences with me about. This woman had managed via her cell phone to notify her girlfriend, who had then notified her parents of what had happened. The mother then contacted the police, but without the police wanting to move out. Only when this girl had managed to get to the nearest house – this was in the 01.30s at night – and was awakened to those who lived there, and who then notified the police again, did a patrol come to the place. But of course, a lot of valuable time had been lost in order to find the perpetrator – and unfortunately, the police never found him. This lady is struggling today with a lot of anxiety, like many other rape victims, and has had her quality of life dramatically reduced after this rape. Where do I want to go with this? Continuity in police work, I think, is crucial to success. Experience and quality are often interrelated. It is therefore important to ensure resources that are large enough to ensure that the ethics section of the Oslo Police District can get jobs and build skills so that police work can be as effective as possible when the situation so requires. It's also about competence in terms of how to meet people when you turn around in these kinds of crisis situations. I'm sure the police are getting a lot of calls. But the mother of this woman and her family has difficulty understanding that their cries for distress that night were not to be heard. I believe it is very important that we learn from this kind of feedback. We know that the time factor can be absolutely crucial if we're going to be able to solve both this and other types of issues. Of course, there is great uncertainty, frustration and uncertainty when the police are unable to respond in a way other than that they say they are recording the enquiry and the information they are making contact with. It is the duty of society to take care of the safety of women and to protect them as best as possible, regardless of the time you go out and where you go. Nor do I accept, as the head of the Justice Committee also said, that women should be given self-defense training and pepper spray to be able to get safely through Oslo or other cities and places in Norway. It's to impose on women a responsibility and co-responsibility that I've never heard anyone try to impose on men when they go out. We must mobilize all good forces to put an end to the rapes in Oslo and rapes in general. The signal effect is very unfortunate when we don't manage to take perpetrators, and when the number of rapes has increased as it does in Oslo now. The police must therefore make every effort to resolve matters, for there is no doubt that rape is among the worst violations a human being can experience. I am aware that the issue of rape also has another side, where the perpetrator is known and often has close relations with the victim, something that has been discussed here, among other things. The Minister of Justice and the Interpellant. Then it is important to say that rape must be combated wherever it happens, and whether the attacker is known or unknown. The clarification of the matters is, of course, important. But if these girls are to move forward, the health care effort is also crucial. In my opinion, the commitment to multidisciplinary environments through the reception of rape and the high level of competence of health professionals is also crucial if we are to help the victims and support them in coping with the psychological plagues that many of them are struggling with in years to come, and a few sad lives to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e473	From the Christian People's Party side, I would like to give tribute to Akhtar Chaudhry for having addressed this theme. And as mentioned earlier, the situation is sadly so that the topic has become more topical after the interpellation was submitted. I think it's right to say that in many workplaces, in many environments, a lot of time is now spent discussing exactly what's now happening in our city, namely rape and attempted rape – which has hit as many as it has. And although this is a debate on that very topic, I agree that we should not forget those who are exposed to the same thing in their home. It does not excuse us, however, that we also focus on what is happening in public space, which has other effects — in addition to the incident in question. A political debate on rape should take place without too simple rhetoric and – too many – without discharge, by playing pingpong about who is responsible for what, at what time. Together, we must work to prevent violence, sexual abuse and rape – across both party boundaries and religious and cultural differences. That is why I am pleased that it is precisely the representative of Chaudhry who has taken the initiative for today's debate. If we look at 2006, we see that it was a record year for the number of rapes reported – 840 reviews. 77 cases last year ended with conviction, and even fewer ended with unconditional imprisonment. On average, we could say that less than 9 pst. by those who are reported for rape, are actually judged. It's a legal security problem. The strict demands of the criminal justice system on evidence make it absolutely essential in the case of rape to ensure technical traceability. Furthermore, prompt questioning of possible witnesses is extremely important. Therefore, it is not satisfactory that the Oslo Police – when rapes occur during the weekend – wait with witness interviews until Monday. And it's worrying when the police officer in this town is justifying low crews and getting patrolling policemen with a very strenuous resource situation. Since the Minister of Justice has been in contact with the police chief of Oslo, and since the Minister of Justice himself said – I think I quote him correctly – that there are good reasons for looking at how to strengthen the Oslo police force, I would like to challenge him on the following: Can we live with the fact that the Chief of Police of Oslo announces that 80 job homes will be available in 2007? And can we live with the introduction of a three-month quarantine period for job vacancies? I hope we can agree that the police present are also necessary in this context, and that, when we deal with the revised national budget, we can get some results. But I welcome the fact that the Minister of Justice said something concrete about the needs of the Oslo police officer in the joint meeting they had. Not everything is a matter of resources. I would like to draw up the interpellation debate we had a few weeks ago, about an Oslo police force that unfortunately has to spend too much time at the tipping points in Oslo Centre – instead of spending time on much more important things, such as. the theme we are discussing today. That's what I'm talking about. Today, on the part of the Christian People's Party, we have submitted a proposal for a representative on several measures to increase urban security. We propose, among other things: to amend the Planning and Building Act to ensure that cities are designed to increase the number of open and bright streets and meeting places, and that the Government also takes the initiative before the Court of Justice to ensure that the Stortinget’s opinions on the level of penalties, including: Criminal proceedings are and will be known in the courts — all the time when a unanimous judiciary has stated that the level of penalties in rape cases is too low and must be raised. In the end, I would like to endorse what the female representatives have said here, and as it may be reasonable for a male representative to say, it is and will be a shared responsibility that rapes do not happen. This responsibility cannot be imposed on women, with different means, whether it be self-defense or not walking in individual streets. In the city, we must be sure that we can go where we want – at what time we wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e499	I want to start by giving praise to the interpellant for raising this question – and to the Minister of Justice for his answers. I think it is good that this works well. I'm one of those people who lives in the street where over the last few weeks there's been some attempted rape. And there's no doubt that when I have my little sister visiting and for the first time she's alone in Oslo, I'm giving some clear advice and guidelines on how to behave, to minimize the risk of her being abused. I fully agree with the Minister of Justice. I'd like to avoid it being like that, but that's the way it is, when the situation is the way it is: people are insecure, and it's our job to try to do something about it. I fully agree with the Minister of Justice in his approach: if we are to be able to do something about rape, we have to make sure that several of those who commit rape or who try to rape are judged. That rape is reported is absolutely essential for more convictions. And then I think the lead that the Minister of Justice is following is right. It is quite clear that if a victim, the victims, would report these abuses, it is necessary that they have a security. First of all, it's important that they know what to do -- that we have good public information, so that anyone who is subjected to abuse is very clear about what to do if you are subjected to an assault, in order to avoid loss of evidence. The second is that the public is present with an apparatus capable of meeting the people who are being assaulted in a proper way, but also in a way that makes the evidence, the technical things, in place. I am very pleased with the work that is now being done – that one reviews everything that goes into the victim’s position – to ensure that more measures are put in place to raise the level of evaluation in these cases, and that one also ensures that this is prioritised. This is something that has been taboo for a long time. Violence in close relationships is something that too many people are exposed to. As I have grown older and talked to more and more of my friends, I have to say that I have been shaken by how many people have been subjected to abuse in the Norwegian community. Most people have not reported this either, because they have a feeling that the burden of reporting this is greater than what they might get back. I myself have been a co-judge in a case that concerned an attempt at an assault rape. I can sign what the Minister of Justice says, that the most important thing for someone who has been subjected to this type of assault is to be believed, not to get the rapist sentenced to the highest possible penalty. That's why I fully agree that we don't necessarily have to focus on getting up the penalty level, although I'm also positive about it. We have to make sure that more people bring these matters to justice, and then we have to make sure that people are believed. I want to raise one thing that has been up in the debate, and it's about creating safe urban spaces. There is no doubt, after talking to friends of mine who have been exposed to what they experienced as an attempt at assault violence, that light in the streets, having transparency around them, is absolutely crucial. If we look at Grünerløkka, where it has become night-open shops and kiosks – one can say a lot about the working hours of the employees of 7-Eleven and the Narvesen kiosks around – there is no doubt that the fact that there has been a looping of lights in several places makes the people who go home safer. That's good. It is therefore important that the public, and here the municipality, do a decent job to facilitate that there is as much transparency as possible in order to avoid people being able to stand behind a bush. Finally, I would just like to stress what many people have stressed, namely that it is reassuring that we are discussing these things, and this comes up when there is uncertainty in the streets. But the most dangerous place to be is in the home of other people – like a party where you can be attacked. So one might say that those who say that all men are potential rapists have a point. Then we all have to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e521	Most of us experience Oslo and other cities here to countries that are safe to travel in. However, not everyone experiences it this way, and the representative Akhtar Chaudhry's interaction today is addressing a serious challenge for us as well as national politicians as well as for Oslo's local politicians. We have a common responsibility to make Oslo a safe city to move in, also for the many women who feel anxiety and security by moving out into public space because of the many unsolved rapes and attempted rapes. Questions can be asked whether the Oslo police are adequately prioritised and whether the provision of resources in the city is adequately targeted at security promotion. The capital is in a special situation. The national tasks, such as embassy surveillance, require the release of police resources. These must, of course, be compensated in the form of increased job opportunities. Then, the next question of police tasks such as patrolling and surveillance of exposed areas is given the attention needed to create safer environments for urban residents. The Oslo police have cut the resources of the city police, and have thus affected large communities such as the Groruddalen, Manglerud and Majorstua. The cops have also hit police guards on weekends. The downgrading of police work in urban areas is not in line with the priorities of the Centre Party. After the events of the last week, I assume that reports of rape and attempted rape are given the highest priority. We have an idea of that now. That must be an absolute requirement. The Ministry of Justice should, of course, also look at how the criminal framework for this type of offence is used and whether the criminal framework for rape is proportionate to the perception of law among peoples most and has an adequate preventive effect. The government has prioritised police training. I'm glad. It is important that the high admission to the Police College is kept up in the years to come. At the same time, we need to ensure that newly trained police have jobs to go through the appropriations for the police districts in general, and thus with the special needs of the capital in focus. Then it's important to establish that a safe city is not created through more resources to the police alone. The Municipality of Oslo itself has a great responsibility to establish a safe city. We need an integration policy that doesn't leave people without knowledge of our society and our relationships to be alone without anything to do with and without anyone to deal with. I am at least happy that we have now received Norwegian training for asylum seekers again from the fall of the year. But the Municipality of Oslo must also give priority to measures that contribute to a safer city. Street lights have been mentioned, increased support for volunteer centres and night work groups, increased competence for health professionals and the review of the very liberal night work policy. The representative Holmås spoke nicely about the lights in Oslo, and he mentioned the 7-Eleven and the Narvesen-Kioskens. I think that Oslo's gift policy is something you should look at in terms of how we can help create a safer city. Oslo, through a much better local economy, has given good opportunities to deploy new resources for the benefit of such measures. With the new SEK 1.5 billion Oslo has been put at the disposal of the government, it is important that the prevention work of the districts is also given priority. Youth clubs can, for example, also be an important integration contribution and important for creating the space, openness and local environment in which Oslo becomes a more open and secure city. As politicians, we are responsible for a law that works and for the allocation of resources to the police. We also have a responsibility that the capital has financial resources, but the management of them to the benefit of creating a safe city is the elected representatives of the people of Oslo. It is also important to include as an element in a discussion that will primarily focus on whether the legal and financial means of manning the police are adequate in relation to the challenges that the rape trials in Oslo show that we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e540	Both the inter-pellant and the Minister of Justice must be commended for having engaged in a wide-ranging debate. But I think it is important to establish what others have said, so that it is nailed: there is no woman to be held responsible for her being subjected to an assault. The fact that that show is going to exist at all is so crazy that it just has to be said enough times that it's completely beyond it being so. The offender must be responsible. So is it that I think that the representative Chaudhry said that you should think about the context in which you can teach people that a no is a no, and teach people respect for integrity, is quite important. I remember what a lurking life it was in Norway when the late Annette Thommess in 1990, about, wanted to introduce a sex course. It was to tell you clearly that even if someone in other countries wears a little different clothes than what you're used to, it's not necessarily an invitation to anything. Now this can apply in many contexts, because, as the Minister of Justice has said, there is great darkness, and most of the abuses happen privately, not in public space. When something as wrong and as dramatic as an assault is happening in public space, I think we should simply do something good out of the extreme evil: we're going to make sure that there's a strong searchlight on what we have to do to put an end to it. And when it first happens in public space, we have to make sure that it is followed up, as I understood the Minister of Justice, that rape and, to the extent that violence in close relations should also be investigated as killing from second zero – from second zero. If we don't, I think we're showing a total lack of respect for the one who's exposed to this. It's a good thing that detectives are in place, but we're quite dependent on other people too. Had there been a killing somewhere in this town, or anywhere else, one would immediately move out, completely independent of the fact that it is sacred and independent of any other provision. If society means what everyone in this room says, the police also have to act like that. And with this impact on budgets, I believe that the Minister of Justice has a broad understanding that he will receive support for it in this Chamber. You also have to organize your work so that fighting sexual abuse, fighting violence in close relationships, violence by a very close relative, must be given status. We know that when the police in recent years have taken up the work against violence in close relations, something very positive has happened. They're supposed to be proud of that. But it must also be that combating rape and rape in its most dramatic edition, assault violence, must have the consequence that it is clearly said from this pulpit that if this happens on Friday night or on Saturday or Sunday, you should not have to wait until someone comes to work on Monday. It must be said so clearly. Then I'm sure wise people will find the administrative, economic and practical consequences of it. I allow myself to say that, not because a councillor or politician is going to have different roles than they have, but because the Minister of Justice has been affordable in his efforts against trafficking in general and in Oslo in particular. The Minister of Justice has been commendably clear in his line against gangs and against repeat crime, gangs that are violent and violent in the public environment. The same price-valued clarity must then also be expressed in relation to all practical aspects of police work, by providing assistance to those who have been subjected to the rape attacks. The praiseworthy work that the Council of State said, to take seriously, is just to provide aid lawyers and to listen very carefully to the story of the Aspaker representative. Because it's a serious story. Let's say that in its simplest explanation, it's about having too few people. So we know that the police priority number. One is to grab hold of violence. We know that, it's been said. That story is so heavy in itself, that when someone goes to it and is so crazy, as the representative Aspaker describes it, it gets to be a case that's about what we can't accept, and that makes us hear from this pulpit that in the dialogue with the Oslo police districts and with all the other police districts in the country, the signal must be that when rapes have taken place, these should be investigated as killing from a second zero. Then, on behalf of society, we have given a signal that is unambiguous. It is also a handshake for those who have been subjected to such a degrading and then integrity-impairing action. Then it gets so that the money that may result from it has to become a budgetary matter. We're going to have a revised national budget in a few months, and I'm sure you have the ability and the will to follow it up there, if you have the ability and the will to take the consequences of what I heard the Minister of Justice say earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e555	I think it is great that this issue is being debated today, but I do not entirely agree with what has been described in the media and by others, that we are now facing a wave of rape in Oslo, even though we are seeing an increase in assault violence. What we're seeing now is that you've focused a lot on this issue of assault violence, and the media are involved in cheering up an atmosphere that I don't like. It is a fact that most rapes are sexual violence, where the perpetrator is known for the victim, either as a partner, as a former partner or as a acquaintance. This is a problem that has existed for a long time, and where society has not managed to deal well enough with the victims. It is also possible to assume that the victims of sexual violence are even more likely to develop guilt and shame, because the victims are experiencing a double breach of integrity. The Justice Committee was in Bergen last week. There we got the numbers of rapes in Hordaland last year. There were 110 reported rapes. There was one assault of the 110. 109 were relations rapes. We also know that of those who experience sexual violence, there are a lot of people who are not going to report. It's easy to understand that they don't, because it might be about a partner, a former partner or a good acquaintance. That means that we have to put the greatest effort into what is called relationship violence. With regard to the debate that has been here lately in Oslo, I believe that one should be extremely careful to place responsibility for preventing rape on the individual. I believe that it can help to increase the sense of shame for those who are subjected to abuse, because they can then quickly think that it is a little my fault, because I did not do more to prevent it. I think it's going to be completely wrong, because it's never the victim's fault that you become a victim. I believe that it must be clearly established every time we discuss the subject. It's the attacker's fault, and it's just the attacker's fault. This also applies, of course, if the victim is a man. I don't think we should encourage girls to wear self-defense sprays or anything. I believe that it sends out a signal that the girls have to take responsibility and protect themselves. In addition, I think what we can then risk is that the violence situation is escalating. An attacker who has so much aggression that he actually chooses to attack, can quickly also increase his violence. If, in addition, there's an overgrowth in the rush, I don't think it helps very much with pepper spray. I believe that we need to prevent rape in line with other types of crime – through awareness-raising work. Here we must men more strongly on the path and highlight clear points of view on this issue. We have to be able to remove the barriers that make the victims not dare to go to the police. We need a system to ensure that you get enough help and follow-up when you've been attacked, and we need to solve more abuses. I also think it is right to increase the level of penalties for rape. We also have to make sure that those who are convicted get a good rehabilitation once they're in and out, so that they don't commit any new assaults when they get out again. Some of these are in place, such as the aid lawyer scheme, which entered into force on 1 January of this year. Some are en route, such as DNA tests and forensic studies. But in the most important work, we have a long way to go: in the mind-creating work. That fight we men must take far more responsibility for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e574	The interpellant shall be praised for raising a very topical issue. Violence and assault against women are vile acts and deserve the highest attention and priority of society and the police. The whole spectrum needs to be improved if we are to succeed in reducing the number of rapes and assaults. The police must be given sufficient resources to investigate, the women affected must receive adequate follow-up and support, and the judiciary must not accept any form of mitigating circumstances when an infringement takes place. In June 2006, national lawyer Tor-Aksel Busch called for a rape alarm: half of all rape charges are free. In December 2006, the Evening Post reported that until then almost 300 women had been treated by the rape department at Oslo Medical Care. In 2005, the number was 224. Figures have increased significantly over several years. Compared with the number of citizens, the number of rapes registered at reception in Oslo is now six times higher than that registered in New York City, U.S.A.! However, so far in this debate, very few have asked the question of why the number of rapes is increasing or what socio-cultural background those who rape have. What we do know, however, is that non-Western immigrants are overrepresented in the rape statistics, as was the case with the interpellant Chaudhry. With the above statistical facts, it is not possible to have an intelligent discussion on this issue without the risk of being politically incorrect. We have to address the problem where it is actually the largest, and then it is unfortunately an undeniable fact that the majority of those who rape or commit crimes against women originate from Muslim countries in Africa and Asia. The question we should then ask ourselves is, of course, why. Is this just a coincidence that is repeated year by year, or is there something fundamentally different with Muslim culture and tradition, which gives ground to a negative view of women more than other cultures? Some of the keywords in this context are to look at patriarchal traditions and arrangements affecting the woman of today's Islam: Segregation and coverage of girls and women, last commented by the new leader of the Islamic Council of Norway, Senaid Kobilica, to the Evening Post on 18 February 2007, which states: «Hijab is mandatory according to the Koran» – despite the fact that the hijab is only barely 50 years old. Divorce: The man has full access to divorce quickly and easily, while the woman who wants to differ from the man's will encounters tough times. There are a number of demands for her evidence of violence, impotence, sterility, etc. Before she can possibly hope to get a divorce.Multi-wifery is allowed in Islam, not multi-husbandry.Earth and witnessing: The woman inherits half of what the man does, and her testimonies are half worth it. Unfortunately, the list of formalized female repression in Islam is even longer. The systematic repression in the Muslim world is confirmed in four UN reports following the two-thousandth anniversary of the cultural and economic stagnation in the Arab world. A major cause of the Arab tragedy is the massive repression of women. The same repression is taking place in countries such as Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan, and cannot be isolated from religion. This is about both Islam and culture, the UN reports state. When we discuss rape as a phenomenon, we cannot overlook the fact that many women too experience abuse and rape in their marriages, and often in marriage they themselves have not wanted to enter. According to the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences, more than 90 pst report. by married women in Pakistan that they have been kicked, beaten or sexually abused when the man has been dissatisfied with the cooking or household washing, or if the wife has not become pregnant or has given birth to a girl instead of a boy. When such statistics are documented, it is no longer possible to claim that this is due to randomness. At the same time, when we know that Pakistan is the country from which Norway receives most of the immigrants, the above-mentioned horrific statistics are something that we in Norway must be aware of. To believe that such attitudes towards women disappear immediately comes to Norway is at best naive. In school too, we experience today that a negative view of women is spreading. The evening post has recently mentioned frightening attitudes expressed by boys down 12-13 years of age. Characteristics such as ‘hore’ and ‘whore’ have become quite common to use on fellow students, a concept that shows a basic contempt for the other sex. In the autobiography «My Life, My Freedom» author and former politician Ayaan Hirsi Ali describes his upbringing in Mogadishu in Somalia and in Riyadh in Saudi Arabia. Her shocking descriptions of systematized female suppression based on the written word in the Qur'an are frightening reading. Here is a detailed description of how women can only move outside the four walls of their home if they have male escorts. They can't sit next to men on the bus. Men and women eat separately. Men have no responsibility either for housework or child care etc. Love between man and woman is a deed, which they distrust in the West. The sexuality of women belongs to the head of the family, the father or uncles of the family. In addition, almost all girls in Somalia are sexually mutilated.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e609	With regard to the numbers of darkness we see, you might say that quite a lot of what has been said here, and a good deal of the friends and friends I've heard of who have been raped, are ethnic Norwegians. I think you might want to go a little bit closer to the statistics before you come up with that kind of statement, although of course it's also a multicultural problem. Everything that has been said in this debate has been sensible. The Minister of Justice's warning of overfocusing on assaults at the expense of the so-called after-game violence is extremely important. It contributes to an additional moral gradation, especially in relation to women. Rape is violence, while the others are kind of something you could do with yourself. In fact, it is incredibly important that everyone involved in rape debates distinguishes between these. It is perhaps even worse for the individual to be attacked by someone you know, at home in the house where you should feel confident and safe. Then you sit there afterwards and feel that it was your own fault. You might spend 10 to 15 years realizing that it wasn't. You might not have been involved, but you should not have been attacked. It's all due to the attacker. In the case of the words «hore» and «whore» used here, it is true that to a large extent quite a number of Nordics also apply – girls in both the one environment and the other. Interpellation debates contain a lot of high-thinking, and in general we agree very much on most things. It's said very much sensible here today, so I'm going to break the idyll a little bit, for well, as important as the high-thinking is the low-thinking, or there's nothing said at all. It was especially to see last week's debate in the media, where VG and Dagbladet raced to get comments from female poachers about how rescued they were, while the male representatives were totally uninteresting. But there are men who can do something about the attitudes. Men are responsible. It is mainly men who are the perpetrators, and therefore also the men who are involved in it in the various fractions must be listened to and used, because they may be a model for the men who think negatively of women. What's worse, is what was mentioned in two statements by Breen and Ellingen, about the silence about how to view this in relation to the sexes. In the term ‘sacrifice’, the implicit word ‘female’ is replaced by the word ‘female’. It's masculine to be an attacker, while it's typically feminine to be a victim. But those men who in recent years were raped by five men at once may have felt that they were not men enough to take five. It says something about the fact that there is an even greater threshold for men who are subjected to assault or rape by people they know, because it violates the role expectations of being a man. In this debate, I think it's more than special that the women who are so engaged and who have so much knowledge and commitment to what an assault is, don't even take the trouble of mentioning that this also applies to men. So you could say there's a smaller number of people it's about. Yeah, okay. Then comes the next main argument that you tend to use, that it's so hard to get in touch with them. And then the third thing is, this has to be something that homorrhea can take care of. No, that's not a question for gay people. It's a question of heterophilic and gay men being raped and abused by other men. I record that not one woman, not one of women journalists, female representatives, or other women, spends the time they have, including the group of men and boys this also applies, when they have speaking time. I think it's a form of gender equality definition, it's defined as a women's struggle and really a kind of gender-to-sex terror balance. Then there's no equality, then there's a question of maintaining a form of debate where men are not included either as debaters or as victims of something that is actually just as cruel no matter what gender it is. Then we're going to try to land a little bit here. I think it has been a very good debate, but I hope that the Minister of Justice, who has previously been very active in taking this seriously, includes some of the recordings that some lone swallows have tried to get into this and previous debates. Otherwise, it is also an invitation not only to be afraid to go on the street as a representative of the government parties, but also to ensure that the nearly 200 posts that the Oslo police lack in order to be as visible as they should be in Oslo streets are put in place. I think it's been a very good debate otherwise. I also hope that we keep a focus on more than rape is about rape. It's probably as bad with the rapes that happen mainly as after-game rapes and at home with people inside the house's four walls, because it's probably some of the worst a human being can experience, just because they don't dare tell about it, because they feel they're co-responsible for the action that's happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e626	It is important that we focus on the gross assault a rape is. The debate in the media has come back, now that there have been rapes in Oslo. It is good that we now have the debate here in Stortinget today. I would like to say to the representative Dahl that I agree with him that the distinction between an assault rape and a rape in close relations is important. For those who experience it, it's just as offensive. I would also like to say to the representative Dahl about the problem of men and the problems of what society expects when it comes to reporting the rapes, that it is important that we focus on and take action against it, so that the numbers of darkness do not increase. To what has been said today, we must not forget that most rapes happen where the victim knows the perpetrator. It could be a girlfriend or a friend. There's a lot of darkness for rapes in Norway. They had received twice as many calls at the rape ward until August last year as in the previous year, but the police had only received four more reports. That is, well over half of those in the rape department had not reported the rapes. Norway has also been criticised by the United Nations Commission on Women’s Rights for the fact that reported rapes in Norway lead to too few convictions. It's said that rape appeal ends with exoneration three times more often than other types of charges. I am therefore satisfied that the government is working to improve this. The 2007 budget states that those who are subject to rape should be able to receive an aid lawyer for three hours before they are assessed for notification. This is very important, because it is a great support for the victim that they can get early guidance on what it means to report such a case, and on the further passage in that kind of case. An early notification will help to ensure evidence in a better way. The government also adds to the increased use of DNA evidence, which in turn will lead to a higher clearance rate. We have examples of that from Bergen, where a rapist who was stopped in a traffic control in Sweden was taken after a DNA test. So it's clear that it can be a good tool in issues that are difficult to prove, where claims can often stand up to claims. The other important thing for women to report rapes is that they are met by police, rapists and other public authorities who take them seriously. There is now a reduction in a public sample such as: shall consider how the victims can be met by the public in a better and more coordinated manner. And as the Council of State said, that report is presented in October. I think it is important that we focus on strengthening the ethics section of the Oslo Police Department. It is important that the competence of this type of case is grouped together in one place. It will give the police a higher degree of prestige to clarify and get convictions in rape cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e645	I'm, like everyone else who's had the word here, very happy that this interpellation was going on, so that we can have a wide debate on, among other things. measures taken, planned measures and, not least, the position of victims in electoral proceedings. I probably don't take my mouth too full when I say that everyone in this room shares the interpellant's concern about the situation in Oslo today. When most people hear about selection, they're thinking about assault warrants. Although, as has been said many times here, there are few polls that are carried out as assault warrants, these selections are nevertheless very serious, and this makes one not feel safe when a person travels in Oslo streets. I also very much agree with the representative, Bjørnflaten, and everyone else who has said that it is society's responsibility to prevent electoral checks. It's the man who's in debt. But I actually belong to those who think that we have to take certain relationship rules, and there are certain relationship rules that we girls can take. I want to make it clear once again that no one, absolutely none, is responsible for the selection itself, the same way a dress or behaves. When I think about the rules of the relationship, I actually think that one goes home together, I'm thinking about taking a taxi and not going in the darkest streets, and that the boys are a little bit "gentlemen" and follow their ladies home. These rules I live by myself, and they're the advice I give my daughter. I actually think that all mothers and fathers do the same thing. This can be compared to the fact that even if you cross the road at a pedestrian crossing, you have to look a little bit ahead of yourself. In Sogn and Fjordane, the county has a measure called ‘Fail Home for a 50-note note’. Such measures I think are very valuable and a good example for others. This is a good example of prevention. Other examples that are mentioned here are street lights and illuminated portraits. Most of the polls are performed by people the girls know. Of course, it makes it even worse to go to the step of reporting the infringement. There's reason to believe that the darkest valleys are very high. When I have said the girls in my post so far, I would like to make it clear that we must not forget that men too are being subjected to electoral techniques, as the representative Dahl here pointed out. And there's a reason to believe that the darkest valley here is even right. When we then know that the brother part of the electoral councils takes place after play and in the homes, we cannot free all Christians, ethnic Northmen, to perform such acts. It's not just Muslims and immigrants who are proselytizing, so we could get the impression of listening to the article from the Progress Party's representative. When it comes to the fact that many of the victims feel the meeting with the judiciary as a new offense, we obviously have to get hold of this, because that's not the way we can actually have it. It is very good that the political leadership has already seen a number of measures taken. There is one measure that several people have pointed out here, which I think can make it even easier to report a warrant and would like to get a wrongful judgment, namely the right to up to three hours of legal assistance as a free counsel. It's important. As I said, it's done a lot of good in the right direction, and we're going to be very proud of that. But we're going to be far from happy as long as there's as many people who don't want to report a selection, as long as there's so many people who aren't judged, and as long as there's so many people who walk around and feel unsafe in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e668	I am pleased that the national assembly of the country has had this debate. The most important message unisonously, as I have seen, to women in this country, especially in Oslo, is that we care about them. Their safety shall be the most important. The second message I see being sent out is that the support device, the health service, the psychiatry or the police, they have to raise their arms and do everything they can to stop this wave of rape, not just in Oslo, but in general in the country. I am very happy to have contributed to this debate in the national parliament of the country. I want to make it quite clear that the Socialist Left believes that the responsibility in a situation of rape lies only with the attacker, in any case – just so it's perfectly clear. When we propose a self-defense course, it's because girls want it. I have received a telephone call from many girls who might think they are on such a course. As I see it, they will then be able to more easily avert a situation of rape. I have always tried to get this debate to a general and higher level, where we look at the victims, at the cause of the rape attempts and at the possibility of averting them. I see that some people have, however, gone into difficult things. I fully agree that equality in Norway and in Europe has come a long way. I respect it very much, and I look very much up to it. Every time I have a chance to do it, I stress it. I want the Muslim community in Norway, and in the rest of the world, to do everything they can to improve women's legal protection and equality. But right away this debate is making Islam, for example. teach men to commit moral crime, and I fall out of the debate. The representative Tybring-Gjedde and others have probably recorded that not only are men with Muslim background who are overrepresented in rape cases, they are also men from the Progress Party. Does this mean that the Progress Party, like Islam, as it is said here, instructs its men to commit immorality? That's not the case. We have to work together to help men, including Muslims, fix this. [[The President clubs.]] There are 100,000 women in Norway who are subjected to violence. [[The President clubs again.]] That doesn't mean that all Norwegian men are female traffickers. We have to have one, what can one say, balance when we debate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e679	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e682	I must also be allowed to thank everyone for their fine input and a very broad and tidy debate. I really didn't expect it to be such a debate. There's a difference between what's in the media and what's happening here. We must bear in mind that we will never be able to solve such situations with just a fingertip or simple political decision. We will not solve this with more resources to the Oslo police alone. We do not want to solve it with just stricter penalties. Nor will we resolve it with more rape recipients alone. So it's a whole in relation to this. What Stortinget has now contributed – from all parties – is that you have raised the status of this kind of thing. I think that's very good. I also believe that for every measure the Government is putting in place to prevent or solve more rapes, we will use the opportunities we have to debate it, and also to help raise the political pressure. When a right to an aid lawyer was adopted for three hours, it was an important signal. The fact that every victim of the rape gets an aid lawyer – it was introduced from 1 January, completely independent of the wave in Oslo – has helped to raise, I kept on saying, the status of this. There will be an assistant lawyer knocking on the door of the police, and asking, what are you doing in this case? Here it is a serious criminal offence. Have you taken pictures, have you secured tracks, where are the clothes, etc.? In this sense, I believe that many of the measures we have now pointed out, whether it is an aid lawyer, the question of extending family violence coordinators out to form a team, as has been done in West Agder, and as you do in Westfold, etc., will be very important incentives. Now, what we're going to debate about DNA, and as we see it can be important to get to the perpetrator, will definitely be important. Clearly, the fact that we are now also getting rape receptions is important in raising the focus on this in the districts. In the case of rape as violence in close relationships, there will always be a large group that does not want to report and that we will never be able to convince them to report. Then we also have to have a strategy up against these that at least gives them a civil trace. The selection reports that will now come, both from the National Attorney's Working Party and from the Parliamentary Committee in October this year, which I have great expectations of, and which I have great confidence in, will give us good opportunities to discuss further actions, so that we are very clear and clear about such a situation. With regard to the budgetary situation in Oslo, I believe that there is little coverage to criticise the management of the last days' rapes by the Oslo police. I'm surprised that some politicians are going into it. I have said that the budgetary situation is something we will of course be assessing towards the revised national budget. But it's a paradox to me that over the last few years, we have increased budgets and the number of employees significantly. If it had been as the previous government suggested, a cut in the Oslo budget, there would have been far more vacancies available today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e693	That is when the debate is on case No. 2 ended. All representatives are now called in because a record has to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-05.ana.ud2052e755	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
