ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e57	From the Christian People's Party Group there is an application for sick leave for the representative of Laila Davøy from 17 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the goods, Knut Arild Hareide, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e75	Knut Arild Hareide is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e89	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e100	I am delighted to present the opinion of the Business Committee on the Ownership Notice. At the same time, I would like to thank all the fractions of the Committee for their good and constructive cooperation. The setting shows that there is a broad consensus on how the country should exercise ownership of the activities owned by the country – in whole or in part. A joint committee emphasises that the state that owns must focus on long-term value creation and industrial development of the companies he owns. Of course, long-term value creation is not possible without industrial development, regardless of who owns the company. A large majority of the Committee argues that the most important country that owns can do to ensure that these objectives are achieved is to demand what long-term returns can be expected. Furthermore, the State must play an active role in finding the best-possible representative of the Governing Board who can take responsibility for the design of the enterprises’ business strategies. And the state must follow up its work in a good and steady dialogue, within the framework of the stock laws, or other relevant laws, as seen. It argued that the state that owns makes sure that it has good competence just to be a good owner, and to follow this up in practice. Both in Norway and in the rest of the world, there is an increasing general acceptance that enterprises cannot limit their focus to pure market analysis and classic assessments of the profitability of the products and services they want to produce. These are absolutely necessary analyses on which each controller must use a substantial amount of time. However, the right of the future must also have a conscious relationship with how production affects the environment and with the role it plays in local communities. And the active owners will likewise satisfy themselves that the board is deliberately working on these questions as well. There is a broad consensus in the Committee that government-owned enterprises should also be a leader in this area, both because they tend to achieve long-term value creation and because social and ethical focus has a value in itself. It is agreed in the Committee that there are other instruments than ownership that may be appropriate to achieve important policy objectives for employment and economic development. For example, regulatory measures and the purchase of services will be more precise and effective means of achieving specific objectives than ownership itself can be. In an sometimes eloquent debate on ownership, a central truth can easily be obscured: it is not capital injection that determines whether we get a good industrial development and innovation domestically. It is competence development and innovation that determines future business in Norway. Claiming that the percentage of state ownership is a guarantee of desired development on these crucial areas, in my opinion, will be directly unprofessional. These main principles of state ownership have been clearly communicated by the Government in the ownership message, and thus have considerable support in the Storting. As I see it, this is a continuation of the guidelines that have been applicable to state ownership, regardless of whether the name of the Minister of Industry has been Terje Andersen, Odd Eriksen, Børge Brende or Ansgar Gabrielsen. At the same time, it is clear that although the ownership guidelines have had clear common features over changing governments, the exercise of ownership has been more active and professional in recent years, not least as a result of the investment in a separate ownership department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. It was a good organisational act with broad cross-political support. So there is a broad consensus about the measure of state ownership and how ownership should be exercised. For all practical purposes, this is a continuation of previously communicated guidelines and practices. But it's not as big a deal as the extent of state ownership. The government party refuses to sell as much as a single share in any company, while the other opposition parties – i.e. the Progress Party, Right and Left – cannot see that the foundations of state ownership are so large in many companies. I leave to the individual fractions to argue for their vision. From the Christian People's Party's side, I would like to stress that ownership policy is also based on our values and on our ideals. The question of the size of state ownership cannot, however, be defined as a life-view question. We're relatively pragmatic about this, and we think that size has to be determined by what purpose ownership has, and by what type of owners are best able to realize and follow up the goals set for long-term returns and industrial development. I have to be allowed to clarify something that I think is an open misunderstanding in which the red-green plural in the committee has committed itself. It seeks to put a kind of equals sign between the scope of active ownership and a lot of ownership. Clearly, it has been especially important for the government parties to show that they represent an active ownership – according to their opinion in contrast to the previous government. But then they realized that when it comes to the very smoothing of ownership, it has not been the basis for the big changes. In the light of the rhetoric of the election campaign, this is obviously an unpleasant recognition, and fortunately, the idea is that the companies should be guided by what is known as a political signal. Such views are better suited as headlines in the media than as real governance documents. So in the absence of real conflicts about the content of ownership management, a new activity has to be shown in other ways. Then the size of the state ownership is decoupled from the foundation of this ownership. Then the salsa power, which at least some of the government parties have previously voiced, was withdrawn. Then it signals the purchase of axles in StatoilHydro for over 20 billion kroner, without any further foundation. This last one is a case that Stortinget will be treated later in ours, so I'm not going to go into it any more. But it is nevertheless right to mention it, for in the ownership message, the Storting discusses general and principled guidelines for state ownership. Then it is also to be expected that one of the later issues of state ownership will follow these guidelines. There may be grounds for warning that gigantomani should in practice count more strongly than documented tests when establishing a specific instrument in order to achieve the objectives of state ownership. I'm also a little surprised that the government party doesn't want to be on a note where one encourages the Government that the annual ownership message should do well for how the company works with the so-called transversal concerns, that is. ethics, the environment, equality and disability, research and development. If one thinks that an increased focus on these concerns is one of the new grips of the so-called more active ownership policy, it seems strange to me to reject a greater public focus on this practice. Let me then finally be allowed to welcome the government party after. For with great joy, in the Christian People's Party, we have noticed that there is now a clear promise that, at pregnancy and childbirth, self-employed people will be treated as their social security rights to ordinary workers. It's been working for a long time, along with the Right and Left. But a good thing isn't going to be worse even if more people jump up about her, and especially if such support gives a lot of things. I therefore hope that the positive tones will be followed up with concrete action already in the revised national budget this year. If so, I take the opportunity here and now to promise full support from the Christian People's Party. But then back to the ownership message. As the case spokesman, I am glad that there is a broad cross-political agreement on the main leadership. This promises a secure and stable state ownership policy in the future. And then I'll finally take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e138	The representative Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e143	First, some of the last representative Sørfonn said in his post – that they had worked so long for social arrangements for entrepreneurs. Then I am amazed that it was not cleaned up in the previous government period. Actually, I was actually going to start this line by saying that we think that the representative of the Christian People's Party has done a very good job as a case manager for the Storing Message of an active and long-term ownership. As we can see from the setting, the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have a lot in common when it comes to ownership policy. What surprises me a little bit is that the Christian People's Party even says that they won't be involved in action against high-leader wages, or, as it's written in the setting, that they don't see a strong need for the state to vote against options. Doesn't the representative Sørfonn and the Christian People's Party mean that we've seen too many cases in the last time options and payroll parties have run wild?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e150	If you read our comments, you'll see they're very clear that when it comes to options and high pay, we're very far away from it. We have said that in the debate on this, and we have also made that clear in the vote on the ownership message. What we say, however, is that we do not want to ignore options as a tool in all contexts, especially for companies with low paying capacity, etc. This may be justified in cases where e.g.: is low ability to pay. Where more than one member is involved and creates values in the enterprise, we do not mean that the option tool can't be used. But as a high-leader pay instrument, it's a detachment that we've taken a great distance from, and it's also shown in the setting. So until the questioner starts, why we haven't done anything to the social systems of self-employed people. There is probably also the questioner and her party will record that they are unable to do everything during their reign. There'll always be a draw again. But we are happy that we seem to find a solution to this – we have been working on this for a long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e157	I noticed that the representative Sørfonn felt that regulatory action was a more appropriate instrument to ensure social objectives than public ownership. It's probably that public ownership is something that we in our mixed economy are only in favour of where private ownership has turned out over time not to be sufficient. My question is then so simple: Is it not a more effective tool for the public to ensure social considerations through direct ownership than to bet on a complex regulatory intervention that will subsequently assess the decisions of the owner as a result of the ownership right of the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e164	The question goes straight into what is the main challenge of the ownership message, simply to understand the country’s roles as owner and authority. It's very important, and there's a broad cross-political agreement that these roles need to be clarified. A controller is not directly controlled by a political signal to the companies, but a controller via the representatives of the board of directors has selected within the governing bodies and who exercises authority through the regulatory measures and framework conditions that are given. That's why we make this clear. In fact, it is also stated in the government's message, and I assume that the representative of the government party agrees with what it says, that regulatory action is more important as a governance document than a political governance that resembles a completely different regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e169	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e172	We opted for a more active enterprise policy with a more active ownership, and I am pleased that today we are able to present an attitude that follows this in concrete action. The state manages enormous values and has great ownership through its state ownership. The state corporations are jobs for people across the country, and the income of the state treasury is crucial to sustain the level of well-being we have today. It is therefore very important that state ownership be exercised in a professional and long-term manner so that it can contribute to the healthy development of companies, industrial development and competitiveness in the future. So that's what we're going to do. The size has a completely different basis for dealing with this today than they had in the previous period, when the Bondevik II government presented its ownership message. The majority in Stortinget then sent the groceries message back to the government with instructions to submit a more detailed case. In the meantime, the so-called Reinertsen Committee has presented its position on how the state-owned business ownership should be managed and organised, and this government has followed up with a ownership message that provides a good basis for the work we have now completed in the Committee. The setting that we are submitting now announces a new course in the ownership policy. The setting shows the big ideological differences between the right and left sides of business policy. The bourgeois parties will sell themselves out of a number of state companies. For the Workers' Party, it is important to ensure strong public and national ownership in order to achieve important policy objectives and secure returns and revenues for the Community. The state has, through history, played a very important role in the development of Norwegian industry and business. An example that might be mentioned is Kongsberg, where, on the basis of Kongsberg Armed Factory, a business cluster has been developed that represents world-class civil technology development. Space technology and oil and gas are other examples. The state companies create many jobs and jobs in many ways to the Norwegian welfare community. This concerns both competence, location and resource management, but also income in the form of dividends. Through its ownership, the state contributes to the long-term growth and industrial development of the companies and secures national anchoring of important companies. In order to further develop the Norwegian business environment and the industrial policy competences we have attached to the state companies, we must stick to Norwegian-based ownership of our largest company. In fact, several times it has been shown that the private owner community in Norway only buys up to a limited extent in capital-intensive and strategically important companies. I am pleased that a clear majority in Stortinget is behind the Government's new course in state ownership policy. The objective of state ownership is now being clarified and, through an annual document, government ownership policy must be communicated to state companies. Attention is also paid to the need for state-owned companies to take care of the environment, migration, equality, ethics, research and development. Through the General Assembly, the State shall ensure moderation in the remuneration of the tenants, hereinafter referred to as the ‘red card’ for the options of the State companies. For the Workers' Party, it is obvious that the State has a special responsibility for those companies in which the State has large ownership, exercising an active social responsibility, not least in relation to those added and the communities in which they have their business. This is not a question of going away from the salary requirement. Taking social responsibility does not conflict with acting commercially, on the contrary. Companies that should be competitive over time and have a long-term perspective on their business must have a good and balanced relationship with their environment. It pays for the companies to think socially and in the long term. The extent of state ownership should be at about the same level as now, it has been an important principle from the Government's side, and that's the majority in Stortinget. But here's the right part and the red-green far away from each other. The party of progress will, for example, sell state owned parts of NSB, StatoilHydro, Telenor, Posten and Statkraft. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has calculated that this is about the values of hundreds of billion dollars – 288 billion dollars is estimated. It shows that there is a clear distinction between the Progress Party and the Labour Party in industrial policy. If the Progress Party were to have a positive impact on the sale of such large state-owned parts of so many central Norwegian companies, they would take a large risk that strategically important companies could end up on foreign hands. The sale of state-owned companies has been carried out before. History shows that the Bondevik II government with the Right in the head sold SND Invest on the cheap, and if they had got what they wanted, they would have done the same thing to BaneTele. Fortunately, the Red-Green government has put a stop to this, and the salsa powers previously agreed by the Storting will now be withdrawn. Of course, private ownership is also important. Private business accounts for the majority of the value creation in this country, and so it should be in the future. The Labour Party believes that a lack of ownership in the companies is important in order for us to have a competitive and dynamic business with good and secure jobs. We want both private and state-owned, national and foreign owners in our companies. Different owners represent different competences that they take into account in the company, and for some companies, for example: the transfer of competences from new owners is necessary for their development. So private ownership is very important and is central to the government's active business policy. Of course, access to capital is also important, and in our view, it is obvious that the State should contribute capital to Norwegian business. The Committee supports the Government's proposal to create a marine fund, and that is good. I am also very happy that the Government is already following up the message with a proposal for a new nutrition fund of NOK 2 billion. The working party of its Austland counties has long been in charge of such a fund, which can finance innovation projects with a high value creation potential in areas where the private market is not set up – for that is the case. We have many examples that the market is not always ready to finance good projects. Many innovative enterprises have difficulties in realising their potential for growth due to a lack of or delays in accessing capital. Some would like it to be that if there is no capital in the private market, the project is not profitable! So perfect is probably not the market, there's enough examples of. But an exaggerated belief in market forces is quite typical for some of the parties in this room. Of course, this fund will allow us to discuss more closely when considering the proposal for a State budget. A poll less than a year ago showed that the people want a more active ownership. The poll, conducted by Opinion last summer, showed that 92 pst. by the population think that the country should use its ownership to care for important social interests. This is, in my view, a sign that the Government and the majority of the Committee have solid support from most people to take the necessary steps that are now being taken in ownership policy. We are now laying the groundwork for the future state to be a clear, professional and long-term owner of Norwegian business, which will benefit the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e204	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e208	The representative, Eldegard, was in his contribution to strategically important companies – I think it was mentioned a lot. You could get the impression that the state now has full control. The notification emphasises some of the companies of which the country is the owner. So it means – as I interpret the post – that all companies in which the state is not a partner or a sole owner do not have an important strategic significance in Norway. And that's quite surprising. Then it could be interesting, as long as government ownership in strategically important companies is important, to know whether there are plans to purchase other companies, or whether all companies that are now only privately owned are not strategically important to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e215	I would like to thank the representative for the question. As I see it, there has been no special signal from the Government that there are some companies that we are going to buy – per. today. But as a representative of the government party, I'm going to say yes, I think we're in a lot of strategically important companies. We are very pleased with all the other companies and the economic development that exists in our country, and we will do everything we can to give good framework conditions for those companies to continue to be good – and perhaps strategically important – for our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e222	I'm very much in agreement with what the case spokesperson said, that saga has now come down on the ground. Most of what has been presented by the Government is based on thoughtful goods that are common to all the political parties. But there is especially one area where I feel that we are separating layers, that is, when it is necessary to safeguard Norwegian interests through private Norwegian ownership. The representative was a little bit concerned with this in his article. The situation is that the potential to strengthen private Norwegian ownership has been strongly weakened in the last two years, including the following: through a very strong increase in the basis of property taxes, and that one has gone against some necessary tax credits on the depreciation page. The opposition – Right included – suggests that a message be given on how to secure the Norwegian private ownership. The government party is going against this. What's the background for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e231	It's very important for me to say that for us a lack of ownership is important. Private ownership is very important also for the government party. It plays an important role and is the largest value creation in our country. It should continue to do so, and we should be in a position to establish a framework. As I see it, there is – as it is now – no reason for it to become less private ownership in the country. Although the representative claims that property taxes prevent private ownership, I strongly disagree with him that this is what prevents Norwegian interests from purchasing from strategically important companies in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e238	It is worth noting that the Government of the week before the Workers' Party's national meeting announced a new fund of DKK 2 billion to be used to invest in unlisted companies. Immediate plans for such a fund are not listed at all in the ownership message. In retrospect, it has also been found that the business community itself has not requested this fund. On the other hand, demand the framework conditions that make it easier to establish new businesses. In the Christian People's Party, we have a number of issues to address in order to remove the wealth tax on working capital, or on nutritional wealth. My question is whether the representative agrees with the Christian People's Party and with the business community itself in that such an approach, simply removing the wealth tax on working capital, will stimulate innovation and further development in business. I hope – to be a bit of a leader – that this does not go under what the Labour Party defines as tax relief for those who already have more than enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e245	I want to answer that first by saying that business doesn't want such a fund. I don't think that's actually the case. I believe that many in the business community, and especially entrepreneurs – all those who run innovative businesses, who have fantastic products ready to be commercialised and who don't have access to capital – are very happy that there are more opportunities for companies to stay in Norway, can evolve into potentially large businesses in Norway. I don't think it would have helped this type of company if the wealth tax on working capital had disappeared. The Fund will contribute to the possibility for companies to develop and commercialise new, innovative products.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e252	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e255	One of the important steps taken by the Progress Party in the treatment of this ownership notification is to propose a moderate and controlled sale in some enterprises in which the country owns. We want to use this opportunity to invest in a slightly different way, for the benefit of further growth for Norway and the business community. At the same time, we ensure that national ownership of the strategically important companies, such as Telenor, Hydro and Statoil, is ensured by maintaining a 34 p.m. ownership and thus having negative control over the companies. We are involved in ensuring that the head office functions remain in the country, and that research and development remain in the country, and we ensure that companies are stable and well developed. At the same time, we signal that the state does not have to own more than what is necessary. We want to use the means that we're releasing, in a completely different way. We also propose that state-owned companies that are not listed today be listed and partially privatised. We've seen the positive developments that both Telenor and Statoil have had since the Stoltenberg I government got these companies on the stock exchange, and partially privatized them. The most important thing for us is to get a professional and good management of the companies that are involved in ensuring that the companies are well run, and that the companies are interesting partners and interesting to private investors, both large and small. It is also important, and in so far as is natural in the context of the notification, that companies are given good and stable framework conditions in the form of the tax system and that they become competitive vis-à-vis their competitors abroad. It is important to clarify that if our proposals are to be majorityd, it is important that such sales of state-owned companies take place over time so that they do not interfere with the natural development on the stock exchange and that the values of the companies are properly preserved. The representative of Eldegard stated that the Progress Party would sell strongly and leave these shares to non-resident owners. I just need to remind the representative of Eldegard that the Norwegian state is investing huge amounts abroad, in foreign companies, through the oil fund. We do the same in the case of State Power, which is on the take-up grid in the rest of the world, we build gas power plants and make large investments abroad. At the same time, this government ensures that non-resident companies in power generation are not allowed into Norway. The same applies to Telenor, which is large in Eastern Europe. In other words, one policy for state companies abroad is allowed, while one protects the Norwegian bit. This is a little strange, because when one of the major industrial groups in Norway was put out for sale – Aker Yards – nothing happened in the form of an active ownership policy. What came from the government was really snorkeling sounds – they didn't care that there was any big grip here. So an active ownership policy obviously has different meaning from who talks on behalf of the red-green parties. I am glad that we have gradually received a ownership message on the table, but I must say that I was very disappointed with the message. There is a message that we waited a long time for – it was postponed, it has been significantly controversial. In view of what was experienced in the 2005 election campaign, there was no way that this government would actively pursue ownership policies. I'm thinking in particular about the Union case. The red-green and some others walked miles by mile in a torch train to rock the Union. When the election was over and the ballots were counted, the current ownership policy was no longer being looked at. What you have seen so far is a door factory in Årdal and a government council that was so passive and so disagreeable with his own that he had to pack the suitcase and go. Then there's been a debate about whether to call it a jewelry box or a toolbox. It's been the government's industrial policy so far. What's important about state companies, and what separates us from the red-green ones, is this with the management of the companies. The Progress Party believes that the most important thing for a company is that you have professional management, that you don't mix politics and shops, and that you don't use big government companies to run district policies. If you are to pursue a rural policy – and to some extent you have to – you have to do it with the means to be used. The large state companies should not be used, because they have a clear responsibility towards other shareholders in the company, and that should be taken more into account. At the same time, it is also important to manage and talk about these companies so that they do not weaken their credibility. I just have to refer to the warning given to the nutrition committee and to the extent that the red-greens, when we had a hearing in connection with the ownership notification. There was a clear warning from the stock exchange director, who thought that a good part of the report that part of the companies had received from the red-green ones on the Stortinget was unfortunate for the companies. It's just looking at e.g. The appointment of the Chairperson of Statoil and all the noise and all the trouble you could get. When the merger between Hydro and Statoil went on, there were a number of red-green politicians who had a huge commitment. That commitment was probably deep and real, because it really just went on what name the company should have. I think that this kind of thing is in the process of weakening the company's reputation, especially in the rest of the world, where there is a lack of certainty about what is really the debate, and how many politicians are in charge of the company. The most important thing for us is that all shareholders are protected in a good and safe way, so that it is safe to invest in the company. We've also cleared the way to use some of the funds that we release in terms of sales in state companies. For us, it is important to strengthen business, especially in the districts. That is why we are proposing an infrastructure fund worth NOK 300 billion, where the return is earmarked for road investment by 70 pst., rail and collective measures including bus-based public transport by 25 pst. and broadband with 5 pst. In addition, we set up a fund of DKK 30 billion to implement racial protection measures in the road sector. The signals we get when we're out there meeting the business community – it can be central or district Norway – are that we have problems with road networks and transport. It's been a big aftertaste. It has been a neglected area over many years, and we believe it is now important to free capital from some of the state companies and invest it in such a way that you also benefit business around Norway. We have received clear feedback on this, and I am sure that other representatives have also received feedback, if they have been out in District Norway. We want to strengthen Argentum, as we have a good tradition of doing in every budget. And we're going to do that this time as well. We are also following up the Government in this matter by promoting a proposal that is distributed in the hall, of NOK 2 billion to a nutrition fund. Finally, let me address the proposals on which the Progress Party stands alone, and the proposals that we are with other parties about and that have not already been taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e289	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e294	Ownership policy is an interesting study of the power struggle between different wings in the Progress Party – between the nationalist wing, which wants things to be Norwegian for the Norwegians, and the liberalist wing, which wants to sell for the sake of sales. It was the nationalists who won the party program, while the liberals won the practical policy. Through the work on the notification, the Progress Party has reported a sale of state shares of the order of NOK 300 billion. Several tens of thousands of Norwegian jobs will be affected. And I can't see that they have a good plan for how to keep ownership in Norway. Then I would like to ask how the Progress Party intends to follow up national ownership in reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e303	As the situation is, it is not that we put some Norwegian jobs at risk, rather on the contrary. Going back and looking at when Hydro and Statoil were privatised and listed, you can see that the value of the companies has increased, and that what is in the interests of employees has also been taken care of. I don't know if there have been any more employees in these companies, but I don't ignore that. When we make a sale to 34 p.m., we take care of what is in the interests of the company. It is ensured that the head office remains in Norway, that developments in the company remain in Norway, if desired. But at the same time, we have to give room to the big companies, so that they get muscles to get out and compete abroad, for example, like Telenor does in Russia, and like Hydro and Statoil do in Russia and in some other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e311	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg underlined that the state is active outside, through its companies and investments outside, and is protecting itself against investment in Norway. I would like to have elaborated on the way in which the state is active in protecting itself from foreign investment in Norway. Is it so to understand that the issue of ownership and of stopping sales in Telenor, Statoil – i.e. important Norwegian strategic companies – means that a stop foreign investment in Norway? Then I would like it confirmed. Or is it so that the government otherwise has regulatory interference with foreign investment? I don't know about it, but I want Øyvind Korsberg to explain how it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e316	What I pointed out is, among other things, State power, which makes large investments abroad, purchases foreign power companies in Sweden, Finland and some other countries, either directly through the company or through subsidiaries. I also think the representative Breck has got the noise it is if some foreign companies want to buy into Norwegian power production in Norway. ==References== 90 pst. of the Norwegian power generation is owned by the government, either through the state or through municipalities/communities. That's the picture. As far as oil companies are concerned, one of the challenges facing you is that you get a very strong company that wants to have a lot of control over the base. The party's concern about it is also apparent from comments, but that matter will be dealt with later in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e325	The progress batch will quote Statkraft, and then perform a downsal to 51 pst. State-owned. Former NVE Chief Erling This track that if they were to be able to make this happen, buyers will be the major European power companies dreaming of hydropower as a perfect complement to their nuclear and coal power stations. This will bring great economic losses to the country in the future. No commercial sum may compensate for the long-term loss of income that would result. The Progress Party and the Right would also sell Oslo municipality its part in Hafslund, but fortunately the City Council said no to it. The bid they had received was 5 billion kroner. The following year, the municipality received a dividend of NOK 4 billion. Of course, the municipality would have missed this if they had agreed to the purchase. Right has admitted that that hall would have been stupid. Shouldn't the Progress Party think about now, before they sell more power companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e332	It's pretty interesting to hear that kind of argument. I just have to remind the representative, Mr Eldegard, that it was the Stoltenberg I government, that is, the Eldegards own party, which both quoted and privatised Statoil and Telenor. I must also be allowed to remind the representative Eldegard that when Narvik Energi was sold to Danish Energy E2, it was completed with the Workers' Party at the head of Narvik. So here's a different view of how to manage what you have of wealth. We fully respect that. If someone wants to sell themselves into an area and invest the funds, either in the form of investments in the municipalities or in the state, we think that's good. It is clear from our proposals. We haven't lived in the belief that if you sell out part of State power, that means that the foxes that produce electricity in Norway are actually being moved out of the country. They're still there producing electricity, and I think we're both happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e339	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e342	The Ownership Communication confirms that there is still a broad consensus in the Storting on the main principles for the management of the country’s direct ownership of business. In my opinion, this is very positive. The government owns more than one third of Oslo Stock Exchange values and large values in non-listed business. It would have a significant negative impact both on state-owned enterprises and on the business community if ownership was significantly shifted towards active political governance. The Soria Moria Declaration promises far more active state ownership. This promise is being excavated by today's decision as an out-of-date policy. On the contrary, there is broad agreement that the Government should follow the rules of the Share Act, the Norwegian Recommendation for Ownership Management and the OECD Guidelines for State ownership. It is agreed that the State should act in an orderly manner and that the exercise of ownership should be carried out in a transparent manner. There is agreement that ownership should be professional, with clear boundaries between the tasks of the owner, board and management. These are useful clarifications both in relation to the government statement, in relation to election promises and in relation to many media performances and episodes in recent years. Plays have been required to interfere in strategic decisions in companies, to demand acquisitions in companies to prevent conversion, to punish or reward the investment choices of state enterprises through the level of dividends and to demand the replacement of managers and board representatives who do not follow so-called political signals transmitted through the media. The ownership message was so rocked that a mouse was born, and it is good news both for state-owned businesses and for business in general that ownership policy is not substantially changed. The ownership message provides clarification of the purpose of state ownership in addition to maximising long-term value creation and industrial development. The additional purposes listed are: the ability of companies to meet environmental requirements to make responsible conversion contributions to diversity high standard ethical effort on research and development; This is a follow-up to the recommendations of the Ownership Committee and a process initiated by the Bondevik I Government. This type of expectation has always been to the state-owned enterprises. It becomes a little strange that government parties are trying to produce a written statement of such expectations as a new active intervention in ownership policy. I would rather describe that as a political trick than a political one. The proposed categorisation of the companies according to the purpose of ownership contributes to increased transparency and clarification, and naturally follows up the proposals of the Ownership Committee set up by the previous government. In appointing directors of state enterprises, it is important that the Government acts in a clean and professional manner. I hope that the Government learned a lesson from the unprofessional handling of the appointment of Governor of Statoil last year, and will ensure that in the future, processes are being put in place to provide trust in the appointment of board members, even outside the red-green party corridors. The extent of private national ownership is an important theme of industrial policy. The right considers that there is a fundamental weakness in the ownership message and in the government’s policy that the importance of private Norwegian ownership is not seen. An overall opposition suggests that the Government present a separate big-time message on how to strengthen Norwegian private ownership. In particular, the right point is that the property tax limits private ownership and imposes pressure on foreign hands. In this respect, it is strange that government parties state in their attitude that private ownership is strengthened by competitive fiscal framework conditions. The government's policy is the very opposite, with the gradual reduction of private Norwegian ownership through a peculiar property tax for Norwegian owners of Norwegian companies. It is clear that every year, withdrawing billions of dollars from Norwegian owners in Norwegian companies, the ownership of Norwegian companies will gradually be transferred to foreign hands. It shows the composition we have of ownership, among other things. at Oslo Exchange. In this position, there is a high degree of consensus about the government's introduction of capital into business through different fund solutions. All, except for the Progress Party, believe that overall there is no shortage of capital in Norwegian business. There is agreement to build further on seed funds and Argentum's fund-in-fund solution. In this context, it was quite remarkable that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Industry went out last week and launched a proposal to re-establish a scheme of government direct investment in start-ups, for example. in environmental and biotechnology. This area is well covered by seed fund solutions and the Argentum model, and it seems a bit strange that the Government is launching fund solutions that are not mentioned in the ownership message, while the Stortinge treats the ownership message. Unfortunately, only the opposition sees the value of the fund spreading its investment also on unlisted shares. Today, the People's Security Fund, also known as the Pension Fund – Norway, is largely invested in Oslo Børs. The listed companies have better access to capital than the unlisted companies. The right, therefore, wants the People's Security Fund to be able to invest in non-listed companies as well. Here I think the government parties appear to be passive and very careful in the setting. The Pension Fund – Norway therefore manages DKK 106 billion in shares and interest rate papers in Norway and the Nordic countries per year. 1 January 2007. SEK 52 billion is invested in shares in Norway, preferably quoted shares. It is clear that it would have something to say about access to capital if the People's Security Fund could spread these investments across a wider range of companies than just the listed companies. The debate on Norwegian management salaries is just as predictable as the start of annual wage negotiations by the social partners. Here there is rarely a lack of strong comments from red-green politicians. The state is the owner of the largest Norwegian companies, and this creates a focus on management remuneration in these companies. However, an overall committee points out that competitive pay is an important tool for recruiting the best managers. This means that the level of management pay in state-owned enterprises will continue to follow market developments in the future. The Committee is aware that the Management Board is responsible for setting salary conditions within the framework of the general meetings as set out by the Share Act. The Committee is sceptical about the design of some top management options in listed companies. The Government Parties will therefore vote against all option arrangements in state-owned enterprises and will also require strict regulation of the management pay arrangements. I think this is going to be a little bit of a game for the gallery. When it comes to the level of leadership pay, there will be a development here that creates debate, regardless of how to structure these schemes. In Sweden, the social-democratic government introduced a stricter regulation of management wages, with the result that the basic wage itself increased significantly to compensate for lost extra benefits. For a time, there was a strong political criticism of the management and the telenor board, linked to the group leader redeeming options. There is reason to stress that the conclusion of such agreements, and not the redemption itself, should be the subject of such agreements. Furthermore, it is part of the story that Telenor, a state-owned company, has had an outstanding company-specific industrial development after the listing. It is only to conclude that the option arrangements in Telenor were launched as a promise to the stock market in connection with the privatisation and listing of Telenor by the Workers' Party and the Stoltenberg I Government seven years ago. That side of the case, I don't think it's enough in the storm of criticism from many red-green politicians against one of the most well-run Norwegian state-owned companies we have. There is a political consensus that the state that owns must ensure that the framework for incentive schemes in state-owned enterprises is seen to be fair. On the other hand, there are cases where options arrangements for employees on a broad scale are an important and good instrument. I therefore see no reason why the state should automatically vote against all such arrangements. On the right, there is a slightly different view of the extent of state ownership in private enterprises than that of this government. The right considers that the ownership of the country should be adapted to the situation of the individual company, the development of the industry in question and its interests as shareholders. The State does not have a capital requirement, but the companies owned by the State need good business development. Telenor and Statoil, which were privatised and listed by the Stoltenberg I government, have had a good development in retrospect. In particular, Telenor has succeeded abroad. I think it's pretty obvious that the internationalisation strategy that Telenor has done so well would have been complicated if it had been a 100 pst. state ownership, due to the risk taken by the company when it invests as much abroad as Telenor has done. That means that the dogmatic line government is now laying down, where ownership is to be frozen right at today's level, seems passive, and it seems weakly justified from a policy perspective. Business and individual enterprises are evolving and the ownership of the country should be adapted to these developments. Therefore, the right-hand side promotes proposals for sales authorisations in companies within a phase that provides for a more withdrawn line from the State. This applies, inter alia, to: Mesta, Cermaq, Flytoget, Entra Eiendom, BaneTele, Kongsberg Gruppe and State Consultant. In these companies, we believe that the current level of ownership is not sufficiently justified. Finally, I would like to mention that the government parties felt that there was a need for a new, reinforced acquisition law. The Acquisition Act was presented as the instrument to prevent the closure of the Union in Skien, despite the fact that the Acquisition Act did not save a single job during the years in which it worked, with the exception of, where appropriate, some positions in the legal profession. We are pleased to note that the Government has also turned around on this issue. On the other hand, it is both unnecessary and hostile to change that the Government is working with a separate law on conversion. Migration is one of the driving forces for increased prosperity and growth, and part of the core of the Norwegian welfare model. I will end by addressing the suggestions that the Right promotes either alone or together with the Left in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e409	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e414	In the setting, the Right notes stressing that the structure of the message is a further development of the ownership and business policy of the Bondevik II government. In the next round, I realized that the policies of the Stoltenberg government are described as dogmatic and a retreat. I would like to give the representative Hansen a new opportunity to explain what the Right believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e426	It is obvious that the big question regarding the management of state ownership has been whether the Government should enter and govern the companies in individual decisions. That is what the debate has been about. Telenor has been able to sell Telenor Satellite Services, it has been said that Telenor should be able to sell the Information, and there have been questions about purchasing from companies that are not satisfied with the conversion. We are pleased to note that the Government adheres to the current division of roles between state, government, general assembly and management of these state enterprises, and that no new principles were introduced for state governance of state-owned enterprises. The government continues the level of ownership that was held when the government took over almost two years ago. That is good enough, but we see that progress is progressing. It's business development, companies are developing, and we believe that a dogmatic locking of ownership, as the government puts it, does not meet the needs of modernising ownership in Norwegian business as the world goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e433	In the vote, the Right Tradition continues from the previous period and says that the State should sell strongly in a number of companies. So the party keeps its value conservatism, and it's nice for the Right. What is my concern here, however, is the Right's view that the State should have an opinion on how the companies should be governed to a lesser extent than the Government has stated. Thus, the right-hand ownership of the State has less expectations of the companies of the State than private owners should have of their companies. Then my question is, does it not worry the Right that their policies actually lead to the transfer of power from the company's largest owner to smaller shareholders and the administration? Is this good right policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e443	With regard to corporate governance, the Government states that current principles of equity law, ownership guidelines, OECD guidelines, etc. shall also apply during this landfilling period. It clearly violates what we perceive is SV's policy. SV wants to manage the state-owned enterprises much more actively than this government is doing, and what is in the big news. As far as these expectations are concerned, which are mentioned in my article, related to the environment, conversion, ethics, research, etc., there are expectations that politicians have always had of state-owned businesses. There are also general expectations that apply to other parts of the Norwegian economy. I therefore think it is positive that these things are formulated. It also clarifies that the Government has not intended to interfere with more controversial issues, for example: conversion processes carried out in these enterprises, into which the Government now confirms that they are not to interfere.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e450	The representative Torbjørn Hansen stresses that the Right supports capital funds such as seed funds and Argentum. But they criticise the launch of new fund solutions in a situation when we are discussing the ownership message, fund solutions that are a follow-up to what is stated in the ownership message. Those funds are then intended to enter unlisted shares, including: At the same time, the representative Torbjørn Hansen criticises that the folklore fund does not have the opportunity to spread the activity on unlisted shares, which is the same purpose as we are to have, among other things. for the new capital fund. I would like to ask Torbjørn Hansen if he does not see that there is a contradiction between the argument that, on the one hand, one should use the People's Security Fund to enter unlisted shares, while, on the other hand, one should not use other state capital to enter unlisted shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e457	For the Right, it's not a problem that the state contributes capital to business, but we're concerned about how this happens. The Seed Fund happens in private, where the money is combined with private capital, and it is run for business reasons. The same applies to the Argentum model, which is a fund-in-fund solution, where investments are made in parallel with private investment companies, and there is an arm's length gap between investments and policy authorities. What I understand is that the Government intends to present – it has not yet been presented to the Storting – is a direct investment scheme according to the SND Invest model, which we had earlier. I believe that the system of fund-in-funds and a co-investment fund involving seed funds is better than a direct investment solution presented here. I cannot see that the solution that has been launched is clearly mentioned in the ownership message. This suggests that this has a direct connection with the national meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e464	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e467	The SV Work Programme states: ‘State ownership should be greater and much more active than today.’ There is therefore little pride SV in the government here is helping to present and deal with a state ownership policy that is in line with just these principles. For SV, it is important to establish that the State is a good owner. It has demonstrated this through exemplary work on the management of Norwegian base oil, the use of leghold traps and by acting as a patient and long-term owner of a number of companies that have faced major development or conversion challenges. The state has both looked at the bottom line and looked forward, with sustainability and district development as an important management tool. The ownership message states that given sales mandates should be withdrawn, including: in the companies Cermaq and Telenor. Nor does the government promote proposals for new sales mandates. On the contrary, the government reports that we are going to keep ownership around the current level, and as you all know, we are also going to buy up to 67 pst. in state ownership of the new StatoilHydro. I am proud that we are now reversing the privatisation strategies of previous governments, and this is clear evidence that SV is in a government that is moving the country in the right direction. Then I can also mention that the title ‘Active and long-term ownership’ can be read as a heading in the SV’s work programme on page 77. It also says: ‘The country has a wide range of challenges for future companies such as Telenor, Statkraft, Posten, Statoil, NSB and Hydro have all the skills to help solve these challenges. [[...]] SV will therefore reverse privatisation and then actively use these companies to achieve important goals for society.’ And that's what this is all about. In the previous period, the Stortinget government dealt with Bondevik II’s announcement of ownership. It was entitled ‘A smaller and better state ownership’. Quite rightly, it is a saying that says: Smear is good. But in the case of large companies operating central infrastructure, which are important social actors, fortunately ordinary people see the importance of the government having a strong hand on the wheel. We're going to make sure that we achieve important societal goals. Our message establishes completely new ownership principles, and that is necessary and correct. Let me quickly take a few examples of leadership pay. The State will vote no – as we have said before today – at the General Assembly if proposals are made for options in companies in which the State owns. We expect the controllers to set a limit of 50 pst. of fixed remuneration as a ceiling for additional benefits. In the case of labour rights, cooperation with employees and their organisations shall take place in the best traditions. I am also very pleased that these are principles that a total mass agrees with today. Unfortunately, we have seen that large industrial and technology companies in Norway have not fully exploited their potential in terms of research in recent years. On the contrary, large individual enterprises have reduced their research. This is a development that we are not satisfied with, and that is very worrying. It shouldn't be like that, and we have to do something about it. Research and development, together with the development of the competence of employees, is one of the main sources of competitive advantage. We depend on the large Norwegian companies taking real impetus for research. In my view, it is the responsibility of the largest companies, and it is natural that we have expectations when it is the state that owns it. The majority of the Stortinget, consisting of the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, now clearly determines the importance that industrial and technology companies in which the state is a major owner will in future be building on a strategy for increased research and development. It's a very clear signal from the largest owner of a number of companies, such as Telenor, State Power and also new StatoilHydro, which we hope they take over. In the case of the environment, SV has a separate exposure. Therefore, I am pleased to record that all the parties on the Stortinget, except the Advance Party, assume that state-owned companies should be foremost in environmental measures within their industry. This is no less than fantastic! We've been through the warmest harvest in 500 years, and the Intergovernmental Panel has largely awakened the globe. So I mean, it's just folding up the sleeves and working! Another area that is important for the new ownership is that we establish principles of ethics. It is important that companies with a high proportion of State ownership should draw up ethical guidelines for their activities, which are close to those which are now the basis of the Pension Fund guidelines. We also expect this, with the other expectations, to be expressed in the annual letter of policy to be issued to the enterprises in which the country owns. I think we have got a very good result from this long work, and I would like to thank the case-rapporteur who has done a glittering job, and I think the committee has come up with a good policy for the future Norwegian state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e513	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e516	There was a lot in Aud Kvalvik's posts that it might have been interesting to comment on. But I think a good summary of that article is that it was almost a socialist tribute by the Government, which could have been a party congress in many countries worthy. But there's one word I didn't hear in her posts. It is the word ‘private’ ownership. It might have been interesting if the representative Kvalvik could use some sentences to explain how SV looks at private ownership in Norwegian business, how SV looks at private owners who run Norwegian business daily. So, how will SV contribute to increasing private ownership in Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e523	I have to thank the replicator for the question. ‘Socialist tribute’, I have learned a little bit more about it after being with the nutrition committee of Moscow. It was a bit of an experience and a bit of an environment. No, I didn't talk much about private ownership, because that's the state ownership we're dealing with today. But I can assure the representative that SV has, and will have, a very active industrial policy, also for the private actors. And as the representative may have noticed, the leader of the party group at Stortinget, Inge Ryan, has worked very hard for entrepreneurs. I mean, we're very dependent on making good sense of innovation and innovation, especially in the districts. I might think that the tools we now have, through, for example. Innovation Norway, is well suited and can be further developed to meet the needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e530	In the election campaign and afterwards, SV was very active, and they've had a lot of playoffs. One may include State acquisitions in SAS and Vattenfall, the requirement to press Statoil to delineate foreign investment, the requirement to prevent the sale of Telenor’s subsidiaries, the requirement that the State govern listed companies by political signal, etc., etc. But then good luck comes the ownership message. Here the Government decides that the game rules should be followed. There will be no more political governance than that provided by the Share Law and the Ownership and Corporate Governance Guidelines. Then my question is: Was it played out from SV only empty rhetoric, or is it a real reverse operation from SV we are witnessing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e535	SV has highlighted itself on the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. Now we're working together in a government with two other parties on our right. Having said that, I would like to say that I fully support what is stated in the ownership message that has been submitted, and in the setting provided by the representatives of the government parties. State ownership provides good political governance. We have a lot of examples of that. We don't have any difficulty imagining what the world would look like if, for example. The progress party was going through for its dreams of selling the oil reserves on a Norwegian base. There is no major turnaround that has happened in SV. We work well with the other two parties and have come up with good compromises, which we are very pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e544	In his speech, the representative spoke about both research and development. In the current state of play of the Storting, both the current and the previous government parties agree that the development of competence and not the addition of more capital by the State will be crucial for a good domestic industrial development. One of the leading suppliers of competence in this field is one of the institutions in the representative’s home country, namely NTNU. From there comes also a famous State Council. He was at least quite famous, or notorious, for having introduced the word ‘sleep cutting’ in higher education and research. NTNU was quite clear in its judgment on the State budget and the lack of commitment to technological development. Does the representative agree that if there is a development of competence that is key to good industrial development, is there a need for a much stronger commitment to higher education and research and for a better budget for institutions such as NTNU in 2008 than the government parties made in 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e554	The representative Dagrun Eriksen raises a question that I am very concerned about. I believe that research and development really need a promise. What we've said is we're going up by 3 pst. If we can do it this year or next year, I can't shoot. We haven't beaten any figures in relation to the budget yet. But what's absolutely certain is that it's not just the state that's going to do this research and development job or the enhancement of competence. We expect companies to contribute as well. They must, of course, make a significant contribution. Unfortunately, what has happened is that many, including large companies with good results, are running away from their responsibilities and their share of this effort. It worries us, because we're significantly based on countries that we like to compare with. So I would say that the Council of State has not provided very poor budgets for research and development, but they can be strengthened, and that will happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e563	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e566	The central party sees it as a primary task of industrial policy to provide rules of play and to use instruments that ensure local and national ownership. The Central Party is convinced that an interaction between an active nation state and a mainly private and Norwegian-owned business can best secure Norwegian resources and interests in global markets. A multiplicity of ownership is a good thing. However, there may be conflicts of interest between active and passive ownership, between private and public ownership and between national and multinational ownership. The main line of the centre party is to facilitate active, private and national ownership. And in principle, it should be that the more active and personal ownership, the more favourable the framework conditions should be. Enterprise policy priorities need to be designed to ensure this can be achieved. Favorable economic development depends not only on whether ownership is public or private, but also on how ownership is exercised. The community is served with a more long-term and stable ownership than what we have seen today. Clear policy objectives must underpin public ownership, and public ownership of some extent and duration shall be active. Public ownership concerns the management of natural resources, the construction and operation of infrastructure and security policy. It is therefore essential for the Central Party that the ownership notification now determines that the State should be an active, long-term and not least predictable owner of key Norwegian companies. Through ownership, the country shall contribute to the good and stable development of the economy in the country. In the Communication, the Government’s objectives with the country’s ownership of individual companies are clarified and the companies are categorised for the first time according to the purpose of ownership. For the Centre Party, it has been important to both make alternatives visible and further develop the thinking around the purpose of national ownership. This forms in the next round a better and clearer foundation for a much more active and targeted state ownership. The strategic work of the Governing Boards is facilitated by clarifying the expectations and objectives of the State as its owner. In the opinion of the centre party, the ownership message provides the basis for a reasonable balance between market and governance. This is particularly important in a market-based economy where the State is a major owner of several important listed companies. Similarly, the clarification of general and accepted ownership principles by the notification is crucial. It is clearly stated that ordinary procedures and governance principles for companies must be followed, and that a clarifying and stressing the responsibilities of the board of directors. The opposition's attempt to stigmatise the Government and government parties in the Greatness of ownership policy is repressively refuted through this message and through the committee setting. Based on the reactions we have seen after the notification, the business community and its representatives have had a much more positive and sobering approach to the message than the opposition has expressed here today, and not least in what has emerged earlier in the discussion. Most business operators find that the notification gives a positive explanation of the country’s ambitions and governance in the Norwegian business community, and it is no surprise that private owners understand that the State that owns, like private operators, must also develop and exercise active ownership. The central party is very pleased that the Government has already signaled that it will follow up the ownership notification and the Central Party’s national meeting decision on the establishment of a strategic fund/investment company for state participation in internationally oriented companies with competence, technology and significant development opportunities. The aim is that one with private actors can ensure ownership, development and value creation in Norway. In the Central Party, we are committed to this being a commercial and forward-looking fund for the whole country, and we want the fund to be organised within the SIVA umbrella. This shall neither be a so-called structural fund nor be a traditional seed fund. Both the facility and the size of the fund will be the basis for further follow-up to government and enlargement in the context of the work on future government budgets. The Communication states that Statkraft’s main task is to be an effective producer of power in Norway. State power must lead Europe in environmentally friendly energy and it can continue to participate in industrial development in Norway and Europe. I would like to stress that it is important to note that the clear majority of the committee, the government parties and the Christian People's Party, stress that State power should have a main focus on increasing electricity production in Norway. The majority also emphasise that the Government needs to assess continuously whether the company can improve its efforts in the areas of new renewable energy, industrial energy agreements and regional development. There is no doubt about the important role of Statkraft in ensuring industry’s need for stable and long-term power supplies. State power is assumed, within the framework of the EEA Agreement, to meet industry’s needs for stable and long-term power agreements, in order to support important industrial and long-term strategies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e598	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e601	The centre party is a party that tries to pretend to have a district profile and sees the importance of local self-government, as they tend to say. When the Center Party was in opposition, they stood together with the Advance Party in many matters, including: in the case of predators, outdoors and a number of other matters. Today, we are promoting a proposal on State Forest where we are asking the Government to promote a matter of transferring the property to each municipality, simply because we trust local democracy. So this is what the Center Party has done in the past. What the Center Party is doing now is probably going to vote against. I just want to ask if it's a result of the Soria Moria declaration, or is it a result of new policies from the Central Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e608	It is claimed by the representative of Øyvind Korsberg that the Centre Party is trying to pretend that we have a district profile in our policy. I think he must be the only representative in this house who says that the Center Party is trying to pretend that we have a district profile. Of course, it is a very important point with the whole of the Central Party's policy to meet the districts and the challenges of the districts. As far as the state forest is concerned, of course, we are on what is the majority's position. We would like to stress that we should not rule out that in the future there will be opportunities to sell parts of Statskog's portfolio. But in the current state forest situation, with significant changes, among others. in the case of Finnmark, it is not appropriate to propose it at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e615	The representative Breck spoke extensively about national ownership, both private and state, and it seemed quite reasonable to me. But then it becomes a paradox that the ownership message hardly mentions private ownership in Norway, despite the fact that private owners actually hold the most important competence and contribute most to the development of Norwegian business. On the other hand, the Central Party is still making proposals for new investment funds, while the Government is pushing out private owners by having a strange wealth tax. This leads to a decrease in the proportion of private ownership in Norway. What, then, is the reason why the Centre Party does not support the proposal for its own large-scale communication on private ownership, as this is claimed to be important and is not mentioned in the ownership notification? I would also like an answer from the representative, Mr Brerk, as to why the Senterpartiet believes that the People's Security Fund should not be able to invest more money in unlisted shares.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e622	I would like to ask the representative Torbjørn Hansen to read the introduction to the ownership message, where it is made clear that the ownership message refers to and deals with the state ownership in all respects. This, of course, has also been the starting point for work on the ownership announcement in the Government, in the Committee and in the political parties on the Stortinget. For us, it's no disadvantage that in this game we have the main focus on state ownership. It's been the starting point and the most important thing. Then we're also busy working further with regard to private ownership. The Communication proposes a separate monitoring message on so-called private ownership. We think it's important to work on innovation policy. We believe that it is important to work with different forms of tool use and tax policy, and in this way we will emphasise that we are working on this and will support private ownership, and that is what we are going to do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e629	The left considers that if we are to ensure welfare in the future, thousands of new businesses need to be developed. Just a little over 6 pst. by the labour force in Norway are self-employed today, and if we are to succeed in increasing the number of self-employed, it is important that social rights are improved. I registered with pleasure that the Center Party at its national meeting had a focus on entrepreneurs and self-employed and improvement of social rights, cf. inter alia: play out and speak from the manager. The Left has written to the Minister for Child Equality and Gender Equality asking to start by preparing legislative work in view of the fact that proposals will be made in the revision of social rights improvements. The answer was very discouraging. It was in line with previous practice in dealing with proposals which are not expected to be supported by a majority in the Grand Duchy, etc. Does the Centre Party agree with the Left, or does the Centre Party agree with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, who believes that there is no majority on the Stortinget to improve the social rights of entrepreneurs and self-employed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e638	I can say that I fully agree with Leif Helge Kongshaug on the importance of getting more new businesses, getting more entrepreneurs and getting more private activity. Like the Left, we're very concerned that we need to improve social arrangements, especially for women, so that we can also support that development. It's an important piece of work that we're working on next year's budget. I believe that once the Minister for Children and Family Affairs has said that there will be no follow-up in the context of the revision, it is related to the fact that this is a matter that needs to be further worked on in budgetary terms. It is an important matter that requires a person to work properly on the basis. It is important that it is subject to a treatment that we should prefer to have in the 2008 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e643	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e647	The ownership message was to be the government's major evidence of the active business policy, but it consists almost exclusively of a description of general instruments and natural things that the whole Storting agrees with. In all clear terms, the message of ownership says that most should really be what it was under the previous government – and that before there – and that it is the principles enshrined in legislation that apply, not more or less unconsidered by individual representatives, which several speakers have been involved in. The only thing that can remind you of any activity is that the Government signals that it will go against proposals for options in companies covered by the notification. Here, too, there is no proposal for a new and strengthened acquisition law, as the government parties promised in the Soria Moria Declaration – fortunately, there is reason to add. Here, there is no follow-up of many different games from the big business representatives of the three government parties related to state acquisitions, management of individual companies, changes to sub-privatised companies, replacement of board representatives, etc. For all practical purposes, the same is underlined in the 60-page consultation note on the closure measures taken by the Minister of Industry at the hearing. The note says in plain text that the Government does not have any so-called new tools in the toolbox, but that today's legislation is sufficient. The only concrete proposal proposed is a bureaucratic proposal on reporting obligations to municipalities and county municipalities if someone is considering shutting down an enterprise, a proposal that otherwise encounters severe opposition in the Ministry of Finance. Is there not a distinction between political parties in ownership policy? Well, there is a marked distinction in the view of private and public ownership – between us who want a diverse and decentralised Norwegian private ownership, and the Government, which is solely concerned with how the state's ownership should become more extensive, at the expense of the private. It's just to look at the new SND fund, like "I, Roar and our peoples have come up with," which the Prime Minister so aptly described at the last meeting between the Workers' Party and the LO. It's a fund that business absolutely does not demand. In Avis2, it says: ‘No one has requested this fund from small businesses. Only political reasons lie behind this, says CEO Tom Bolstad of the Business Federation, who organizes just such businesses as the Prime Minister wants to stimulate with his nutrition fund. “The only positive thing about the fund is that it only disposes of SEK 2 billion,” says Bolstad, aiming for a proposal that such a fund should have at least the time frame.” The left will ensure Norwegian ownership of the business sector by strengthening private ownership. That's why we're for private ownership in some whole state companies. That's why we're for further sales in companies that are already partially privatized. In the new principal programme of the Left, which was adopted at our national meeting a few days ago, it says: «Public ownership in the business community creates easily a mix of roles and democratic problems. It should therefore be limited to vital societal considerations, such as key competences, basic infrastructure and control of energy and natural resources. The public holding in such a company shall not exceed what is necessary to achieve that purpose. The governance shall be in accordance with the principles of good ownership.’;» The left expects Norwegian companies to take social responsibility. This applies in particular to enterprises in which the public holds holdings, for example: through the different national investment funds, because they also act on behalf of the Community. This is not least the case in the environmental field. The left therefore expects state-owned companies in the fields of activity to actively seek solutions that contribute to more sustainable development and that stimulate better resource management and less environmental pressures. In the ownership message, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs are given minimal attention, not in anything but in a proposal for a founder bank. The business policy of the left is to facilitate the new business life we will live on in the future. It is about simplification and flexibility, not least for entrepreneurs and self-employed people. Good social arrangements must be made for entrepreneurs, because we depend on them to increase if we are to ensure tomorrow's well-being. Measures that will make it easier to be entrepreneurs and self-employed are left-wing responses to the so-called active industrial policy of the Government, which is largely about state control.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e677	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e680	The leftmost position is confirmed by this setting as a classic right-hand side. The party is now in for sale in companies like Yara and Telenor. They propose that the State should dispose of the shares of Baneservice, Cermaq, BaneTele, selected parts of Statskog and Entra Eiendom. A reduction in the country’s ownership and thus influence in business is probably part of the party’s environmental policy strategy. In a very different way, the party has realised that the ability of Norwegian companies to invest in environmental technology is inversely proportional to the size of state ownership. It is then natural for the Left LIT to be responsible for the main part of the development of Norwegian environmental technology. I assume that we are now letting go of the fact that the state companies are going to go ahead in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e687	In terms of offensive attitudes to environmental technologies, research and development to meet the new future in terms of conversion and addressing the challenges we face, there is no difference whether the enterprise is State owned or privately owned. As I said in my post, we now expect, whether the company is private owned or state owned, that they take the responsibility that lies with them, and that they have a conscious environmental profile also in terms of developments in this area. Otherwise, I agree with the replicator, who says that we want to sell ourselves into a number of businesses. It should not be for a person to own in private enterprises only for the purpose of having a good time to own. One must have a purpose of ownership. In many of the companies mentioned here, there is no clear purpose of state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e694	I have registered that the representative from the left claims that the message is made up of a number of naturalities, and that most of it should be as it has been. Then I will allow myself to pick up a newspaper clipping from the VG last November, where it included. read: ‘The sober, decent and conservative manager who put the common interests of society high on his agenda has disappeared from Norwegian business and is today replaced by a crowd of men who sit on each other’s boards and grant each other large parachutes, bonuses, wages and options. For these leaders, aggressive asset value thinking is the most important thing. That's not strange, because the high share value gives money right in the pockets of the individual manager. The higher the share value, the more in the option gain.» Now the government takes power over the option agreements from the governments and moves such important contract decisions out of the rooms that are closed, which are only for the richest ones who are allowed to be in there. What does the representative from the Left think of that change?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e706	One might agree that in some cases options and favourable conditions have gone too far in some companies, but we must not be completely fanatical in this area. I believe that options will be incredibly important to use in the future – not least in start-ups, who cannot afford to engage the best minds and the best skills, and who thus have to invest at a lower salary level, but can signal that if the company is doing well, it is possible to buy into the company. That there are such options, I think it is important for us to get more small businesses, and that we can thus have the opportunity to ensure the well-being we've been talking about, just through an innovative business. Here one must allow to have several thoughts in his head at the same time. It's not a either-or-phenomenon.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e713	The Left Party is going to buy in the new company StatoilHydro, but goes in to sell in both Yara and Telenor. One has no own opinions about Statkraft, other than that the industrial power contracts to power for further processing e.g. of timber shall be closed. This is in a situation where the Norwegian State has a large surplus of capital. So one doesn't need the sales gains. My question is: Why is it more important for the Norwegian people to own small items in all of the world's limited liability companies than to maintain state ownership in Norwegian key companies? For me, this is a breach of Left's history. What's ideologically new?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e720	For the Left, it is important to have a state ownership of businesses – which I was in my post – among other things. in the case of natural resources, and in establishments where the country is a clear object of ownership, but there is no intention that the country should have a large ownership only in order to be a large owner. We also have many examples of companies that have a greater share of private ownership being more resilient. They can meet the challenges both in terms of the necessary transformations and new transformations that society requires. That's why we don't see any reason why we have to own, but that we have to own it where it's necessary to have the necessary governance and control of the companies that govern important natural resources and other areas that we're occupied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e727	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e730	Like many others, I would first like to thank the rapporteur and the committee for the work that has been done and for a good debate so far today. The attitude shows that there is a high degree of consensus on a number of important lines in the country’s ownership policy. This applies, inter alia, to: in relation to the organisation of ownership. By way of exception, all parties want to build on the management model we have today. There is also a high degree of consensus on how ownership is to be exercised, namely according to general principles of ownership and corporate governance, with a high degree of transparency and predictability associated with governance. It is good for Norwegian companies and Norwegian value creation that Stortinget provides such broad support for the main lines of government policy. The Government has taken action on state ownership through the big business message. That is what we do to ensure the anchoring of national ownership and to ensure important policy objectives. Government will safeguard natural resources, long-term growth and industrial development, as well as stability on the ownership side. All Nordics, each of us, have a holding in companies where the state is part of the ownership. This government will manage that ownership in a good and long-term way. We want to exercise an active ownership. It involves considering growth plans and following-up with specific owner dispositions where appropriate. It also implies being a clear owner that clearly expresses expectations. The government expects the board to have high ambitions for the development of companies. We expect the boards to manage the companies with a view to obtaining the owners' market returns, while ensuring the companies' good industrial development. This owner has expectations that companies must also pursue other considerations that go beyond short-term returns. The consideration of the environment, the diversity of management, research and development, ethics, health, the environment and safety, the transformation of the surrounding environment, the fight against corruption and investment in labour are important considerations that need to be addressed and that support the long-term, good development of the company. We will help to put together governance to ensure that long-term value creation and other objectives of the country are taken into account. In the Communication, the Government has clarified the objectives of State ownership in general and of individual companies in concrete terms. This clarification of the objectives of ownership is important because it can contribute to the better and more accurate management of ownership. We would like, among other things: facilitate the formulation of expectations and the assessment of the performance of companies. Companies will also be able to define the main tasks in a simpler way, and know what requires the participation of the owner. In addition, the Government has proposed that companies be divided into different categories, depending on the objectives of ownership. The Government has received support from Stortinget to amend the Public Share Act. This increases the influence of shareholders in the determination of directors’ wages and salaries. The amendments entered into force on 1 January of this year. Although there are nuances in some details, I am pleased that there is agreement on the main principles for action against high leadership salaries. An overall committee also agrees that the State can use its power of ownership at general meetings in order to avoid the development of an unfortunate culture linked to high management salaries. This government has announced that it will vote against new options, but says yes to some types of bonus scheme. But we are concerned that it should be based on real earnings contributions and be within a framework in relation to fixed wages. The fixed remuneration shall be the central element of the remuneration, including for managers. Bonuses should be limited by ceilings not exceeding half of the fixed salary. In order to have a high degree of transparency and predictability, the Government has, in addition to its reference in the Communication, provided guidelines on the country’s attitude towards senior pay. These are presented to all companies mentioned in the ownership notification. It is therefore clear in advance how this government will vote in relation to the guidelines that governments have to submit to the general meeting. Now we see that this work is producing results. Companies are now putting forward more moderate leadership pay programmes than they have done in the past. There is reason to believe that this will also affect private companies. Although parts of the opposition support the main lines of the government's ownership policy, we also see that classic ideological dividing lines in politics are clearly visible: the Progress Party will sell shares for nearly DKK 300 billion, and the Right wants a significantly reduced state ownership, with sales of over DKK 20 billion. The country has no need to realise parts of its national wealth. Nor are Norwegian owner-friendly environments ready to take over, even if a small part of what the minority here suggests would be sold. Therefore, there is no reason for the State to reduce its ownership. I note that none of the minority sales proposals will have a majority. On the contrary, the majority and the Government will retain strong state ownership. The government has therefore announced that we will make proposals to withdraw sales mandates. On the other hand, we will be able to support sensible structural solutions within the framework of mandates.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e760	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e764	While we've been waiting for the announcement of ownership – one can really only say that the waiting time has been like a long pregnancy and a long birth – a government council has had to go off, and there has been a lot of red-green noise from its own ranks. The most perceptive aspect of the message is probably not the message, but the liaison between the LO and the Workers' Party. There was a certain kind of trigger at the end of last week, when Prime Minister Stoltenberg launched a fund of NOK 2 billion. It is possible that there is some kind of payment for the support that LO has given to the Workers' Party in the election campaign – I don't know – or that it is some kind of internal medicine to stop Jan Bøhler. I can imagine asking a question to the Council of State. It could have been about what it's like to be running good for LO, but the question is, why didn't this proposal come in the ownership message?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e773	I must first be allowed to say that there is an incredible amount of strangeness to be heard as premissing a question. For example, there is no government council that has left in connection with the ownership notification at all. There are two government councils who have worked with it. He who started the message went for private reasons, and I even think the representatives of the Progress Party should respect the Stortinget. With regard to the proposed fund, I have heard earlier in the debate today that it is something completely new and that it is not mentioned in the communication. Some who may need capital are start-ups with newly developed technologies in a difficult start-up phase. It is mentioned in the position on page 13, not as directly as I say it now, but it is described both in the communication and in the committee's own position as one of the areas where capital may be needed. So it's going to be a fund from which you can apply for equity, but that equity shouldn't be threatened at all. Here, there is a good cooperation between private and state capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e780	There have been considerable expectations of a change in ownership policy in advance of the presentation of this Communication. The government parties promised in the Soria Moria Declaration a much more active state ownership, and it has been a pure fomento of spin-offs from red-green politicians about various types of interference in state-owned businesses. Then the setting, as the Council of State points out, shows that there is a broad consensus on the ownership policy and the message presented by the Government. This shows that the Government has put forward a policy of ownership that largely continues the principles that existed there before, not a change of course as promised. Looking at the content of the ownership message in terms of environmental expectations, categorisation and a letter of ownership each year, it follows up the work of the previous government. There is also nothing special new about funds. In the case of management wages and salaries, there are still competitive conditions. Nor will the government go in and buy up companies that are in danger of being bought up, for example. Aker Yards. Doesn't the Minister of Industry see that this is going to be quite puzzling in relation to the promises that were ahead of us here?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e789	As regards part of the previous debate on predictability and cleanliness in relation to governance, there has never been any signal from any of the government parties that it would change that. It's been stuck the whole time. It has been firm from the parties, from the former state council and from me. What is new in the ownership message is that we are now more actively declaring what we want with our ownership. I'm glad that the Right has agreed to this, because we both have general expectations of all the companies in which the State is a partner, and that we have special industrial expectations for the individual company. When representatives from the Right now say that there is something that everyone can agree with, there might be a confirmation of what Einar Förde said in his time, that we are all social democrats. But at least it is a new policy. It's not a policy that would have been put forward by the previous government. Nor is it the case that the previous government presented concrete measures on management salaries. We've done that, and I'm glad that it's now essentially going to get upset. What remains, however, is that the Right is stuck in its ideological stick about selling out large shares of state ownership in a situation where we know that there are no private Norwegian owners to take over. I think that is unfortunate for the development of Norwegian business in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e800	Ten days after the Government presented its ownership message, with the message that the state would now become an active owner, we received the largest merger in Norway history between companies with a turnover equal to more than a quarter of Norway's total gross domestic product, a merger between two companies in which the country as a whole owns more than 60 p.m. of the share capital. In the post-release period, there was a dispute, including: on name choices, on location of head office and on group functions, between Stavanger and Oslo. The responsible state council was high on the track and stated: I don't want a split head office. Statoils and Hydros chiefs provided ultimatum: once the draft terms of merger have been adopted, nothing may be changed. A better and more significant case of what the active ownership of the new government means in practice is impossible to find. After four months of active ownership, what is the fasitite? The management of the company is divided between Stavanger and Oslo, according to the original plans. The permanent name selection was finally determined by the directors, as they originally provided. International activities shall be managed by Oslo. My question to the government council is, isn't it that the owners here have been incredibly passive, and that the government and the management have got it on a dot that they would like it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e811	First of all, as regards the government council to which it was referred, I think the representative means a government council other than me, that is, the future owner of the company. I would like to point out that this is to be discussed in its entirety in a separate case, which is presented to the Stortinget and is therefore not mentioned in the ownership notice. That the draft terms of merger are the final plan is a reality, and it is in line with the statement of ownership of sound governance and who has the roles of companies. That we ended up with a result of names that some at least suggested should have been different, and that there was a discussion about it in the opinion, I don't think there is a big problem for the management. At all, I think the company came up with a good name. I'm very happy about that. One of the things the government has been busy about from the very beginning is the second point that the representative raised, and that's important. It has been established that the head office should be in Stavanger. Stavanger is getting an increase in the number of employees in the merged company, with a slight decrease in Oslo. That we should preserve the strong oil environment has been an important point for the Government. That is also the result of the plan presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e820	I believe the Minister of Industry agrees with me when I say that many of the future jobs to ensure the well-being of our society are not yet created. A keyword will be renewal and conversion. Furthermore, companies need to adapt to a modern society with new challenges. Now it is the case that the Minister of Industry has, at the hearing, sent a case on measures against closure of the enterprise, where notification obligations have been proposed when businesses are to be closed down. That proposal has not just been met with scepticism. In fact, it is very poorly received from many teams, including from their own government councils. Both the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Labour and Inclusion and the Minister of Renewal and Administration are very sceptical about reporting. The Minister for Renewal and Administration even says that it will work against its purpose and have a negative impact on employment. Does the Minister for Economic Affairs think that such a proposal facilitates the transition and increases employment? [[President clubs]] Or does he agree with the Minister of Renewal and Administration, who says it will work against his purpose and negatively on employment? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e829	The President will recall that the speaking time for lines is up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e832	Firstly, I would like to agree with the representative of Kongshaug that the most important jobs are still not created in the future. There was some reason why it was so important at the time of the government change to bring about a change and an increase in activity in business policy. That's what we've done. It has, among other things, led to an increase of 420 million in nutrient research. Compared with the previous government, we have strengthened the instruments for innovation in Norway, and that we have increased efforts in the maritime and marine sectors to create new jobs in areas where we are already good. So I agree with the representative of Kongshaug on that. On the issue of the law on conversion, it has to be up to the President to what extent we are going to discuss matters that have not been submitted to the Stortinget. But I am convinced, for my part, that when that law comes, and we have taken into account the hearing opinions that have come, there will be a draft law that will enable us to either save threatened jobs, or at least to convert safely. When representatives have previously shown that we are good at conversion in Norway, it is because we provide security – that is what the law is based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e844	The Council of State used it to secure natural resources as a argument to defend the high degree of state ownership in Norwegian companies. Previously, companies that are strategically important have been mentioned as a defence of the great state ownership. Some of our companies – Hydro, Statoil, Telenor – have a role in Norway in strategically important positions, and also as owners of natural resources. The only way these companies can expand is to go out. I expect the Council of State is aware that oil is a natural resource also in other countries. Isn't it a moral dilemma for the Council of State that the Norwegian State should own so many shares in companies that buy up natural resources in other countries, when we ourselves want to defend our natural resources and their ownership through Norwegian companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e850	No, not really – because Statoil and Hydro buy up the natural resources of other countries to a small extent. They're allowed to extract those resources. The fact that it is a company in which a state, a serious state, is a partner is, in fact, a safeguard for very many countries in the world – those countries that are rightly engaged in caring for their national interests, for example. oil and gas extraction, but which does not itself have the technical competence that we have acquired in Norway, because some were wise enough to organize Statoil in a way different from the right side of Norwegian policy, and the Progress Party in particular, would do in the 1970s. It's given us an incredible knowledge base. It is safe for many countries that there is a company in which the Norwegian State is a partner, which deals with oil and gas extraction in those countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e855	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e858	In the 2005 election campaign, almost all socialists ran with a magnificent representative in their stomachs and promised state businesses and jobs throughout the country. With a red-green government, the state was to rule, and no jobs were to be laid down or moved out of the country. We all know today that these were empty promises – and the workers of the country and the business community should be very happy about this. The ownership message is, in a number of areas, an estimation of naturalities. Or what about the following quotation from the summary in the message: «Member States shall contribute, with their ownership, to the long-term growth and development of companies. This requires an active ownership policy in which expectations for governments to have high ambitions are formulated. The Government will make demands for returns and dividends based on the long-term objectives of the companies.’;» - No, think about it! Can anyone in this one imagine the opposite wording? In that case, it would be: «Member States shall, with their ownership, counteract the long-term growth and industrial development of companies. It is then necessary to pursue a passive ownership policy where low ambitions are expected from the governments. The Government will not impose any income or dividends requirements but build up under the short-term objectives of the companies.» But despite the message of course, there are also some formulations that I want the Council of State to specify with real examples. The report mentions, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings of the «If a whole-time company» – as most companies are wholly-owned, I assume that the Government means a whole-time state company – «is required by the State to conduct investments or other activities which the Board of Directors considers not to be commercially sound» – I repeat: not to be considered commercially sound – «is intended to compensate the companies through their own appropriations» – above the State budget. This is an eye-catching statement, showing with clarity that the Government does not understand how businesses need to adapt to changing trends and trends in the market. This is not what the Minister of Industry believes that a strategic governance decision can be compensated for by a budget allocation. Governors make difficult and painful decisions because they consider this to be commercially necessary in the long term, not to achieve short-term gains. But since this is obviously not the government's understanding of corporate governance's decision-making assessments, I ask the Council of State to give a few concrete examples of how such compensation might be relevant. And does the Council of State expect a director who is instructed to implement measures that he or she considers not to be commercially sound to continue as Chairman? The chapter on the country's commercial ownership divides the state ownership into four categories. Category 1 includes the companies that the Government considers to have the main objective of maximising economic value – or profits. Which of the State-owned companies today considers that the Council of State fits into this category? In the chapter on capital injections into Norwegian business, it is called inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘We see a stronger tendency for Norwegian knowledge companies to be sold out as soon as they reach an international level.’ This is a trend the government claims it wants to stop. One of the driving forces behind such sales abroad is the possibility of profit. Does the Government believe that the motivation for start-up business is maintained if the possibility of profit on sale ceases to exist? And how does the Government plan to impose such sales restrictions without conflicting with our obligations under the EEA Agreement? In the chapter entitled ‘An Active Ownership Policy’, the Government states that government-owned companies must also deal with environmental concerns well and bring about a diversity of management at all levels. The Progress Party then assumes that the Government is of the opinion that privately owned companies have less environmental concerns — and if so, can the Government provide some examples of such privately owned enterprises? Furthermore, the Government wants so-called diversity of management at all levels. Can the Councils deepen this desire? Does this mean that certain people should be admitted, even if others are more competent? And what criteria should be taken into account for inclusion in the concept of ‘diversity’? Is it sex? Is it age? Is it sexual orientation? Is that ethnicity? Is it skin color? Is there a color on your eyes? Is that physical disability? Or are there other diversity categories that the Council of State wants to divide people into? Is it possible that membership of various parties creates diversity – or is the union government aiming at? What about people with hats and sticks? What about them with long hair? Are these included in the Government’s definition of diversity, or are they to be excluded? Does the Government’s concept of diversity exist in the management of the State Council’s own department? It would have been interesting to know. I guess you should sort it out at home before you tell others to fix it. Finally, I would like to comment on the Government's desire to establish long-term dividend expectations for the companies, where a three-to-five-year perspective is expected. It is a completely meaningless strategy to choose, as businesses live from year to year, in the light of trends and sales and profits in the market. Such expectations cannot be imposed on enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e910	While the opposition parties, on the one hand, are trying to create the impression that the Government's ownership policy is a continuation of the policy of the previous government, on the other hand, they are accusing the government parties of having a «dogmatic» view of state ownership. Then it is hardly any other way to wait than that the Progress Party and the Right, with the Left as a freshly frozen tailhang, promote an innumerable proposal for the full and partial privatisation of state enterprises and the sale of state holdings. When state shareholdings gave the state a dividend of 20 billion dollars in 2006 and the value of the state ownership of listed companies runs up to over a billion dollars, it illustrates the values we are talking about here. In addition, the value of state holdings in unlisted companies also amounts to NOK 80 billion. The progress party, which takes the hardest part – they always do – will sell state shares for nearly NOK 290 billion. The right-hand side is just going to pay me 24 billion kroner. So if these parties, together with the Left, were to have a majority in Stortinget after the 2009 elections, we would have a large-scale sale of state shares. Just as if the problem in the Norwegian economy is that the state now needs more money! The right-wing parties want to return to their own business neutrality, where the state is only a passive spectator of what is happening in business. This is the counterpart of an active industrial policy, where, as other owners, the state has a sense of ownership beyond the bottom lines of the companies. Treatment of the ownership notification by the Storting shows the differences in industrial policy. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left believe in principle that private ownership is always superior to public ownership. When the Bondevik government no longer came into its privatisation policy, it can only be because the Christian People's Party held back and prevented large-scale sales of state-owned companies – whether it or not, the Progress Party, Right and Left have moved their policies to the right more degrees after they lost the majority in the Stortinget. The government's ownership message makes sense to state ownership. The committee setting shows the ideological distinction between the government parties and the right parties in the view of public ownership. While government parties want to actively use the country as a trader and investor, right parties will minimise the role of the country in industrial development. Therefore, the Government proposes to reverse previously granted powers of sale in certain companies. Therefore, the Government proposes the creation of a marine fund in which the state can enter and stimulate the development of the marine industry. For this reason, the Prime Minister has now signaled that the Government is prepared to set up a government investment fund which, together with private capital, can raise innovation projects. So the state has to be a long-term owner. The state ownership and state investment in business must contribute to long-term value creation and industrial development – and to inform the representative Tybring-Gjedde: there are thus private companies that have the opposite sign and the opposite purpose, namely short-term gains – as far as possible. The companies must, of course, be competitive over time. It is a matter of course, but it is nevertheless necessary to point it out, because the opposition later feels that the profitability requirements are more relaxed in public-owned enterprises than in private. That is, of course, wrong. The enterprises that the state owns in whole or in part are not left to anyone in that particular area. Rather, state companies often seem attractive to private investors, especially in companies that are struggling to raise themselves from the so-called blood pool. As other owners, the country has defined objectives of its ownership and expectations of the ownership of the different companies. It concerns expectations of the environment, ethics, research, development and business strategies. That's the way it should be. The government, through its ownership notification, has helped to define the purpose of state ownership and the purpose of individual enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e931	It is very good that the Stortinget finally has a debate on industrial policy. I believe that all of us in the Business Committee can agree that there have been very few debates relating to the business sector as far as this process of mass destruction is concerned. It's the government's responsibility to come up with issues that can create debate in the Storting, and the government should at least have boasted that this matter has contributed to an important debate on ownership here in the Stortinget. The public debate following the government's presentation of the ownership message has shown that many internally in the government parties, both here in the Stortinget and in the trade movement, etc., were disappointed by what emerged in it. But I also believe that part of the business community drew a sigh of relief from the fact that the worst assumptions probably did not become a reality in the ownership message. With that, I try to say that, in my view, the ownership message is relatively passive, and it does not reveal anything new in relation to what other previous governments and the Storing have done in ownership policy. The Progress Party and the Government Parties agree that it is important to pursue a so-called active industrial policy, but the debate so far during this process has shown that there is considerable disagreement as to what such a policy should involve. In my opinion, the debate has so far gone very wrong in terms of the communication of the government parties to the outside world on this topic. Much is due to free-runners in the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party here in Stortinget. The industrialists of the Workers' Party have been put on the sidelines of more clear politicians such as Jan Bøhler, Per Olaf Lundtigen and some solo players in the Socialist Left Party. I think that's sad, because it's important that the vision of the leading party in the government comes out more clearly than it has. What is regrettable is that this has shown that the majority is responsible for the detailed management of all decisions taken in public-owned companies. So you also want to increase the public holding in companies where the state already has full control. You can ask yourself the question of what the point of that is. Several unexplored proposals have also been made for the purchase by the State of other private companies in which the State is not currently the owner. There has been a public humiliation of top managers in Norway's main companies. You can ask questions about who will be the leader of such companies if you are going to review that kind of public humiliation. It has become a detailed management of pay and bonus schemes for managers of large companies. Overall, there are many unclear signals and dubious messages to the stock exchange and market, which contribute to confusion in view of what the State really believes in the matter. The Progress Party has had a different definition of what is a good active enterprise policy and what is a good active ownership policy. The most important thing is that we have a world-class business environment. This is a major investment in business-oriented R & D, a competitive tax system in which one is competitive in wealth taxes, inheritance taxes, dividend taxes and general corporate taxation, that one has a clear focus on transport, on education systems, on infrastructure — for example. gas pipelines — and having a moderate and sensible environmental policy that can contribute to the use of Norwegian gas in Norway. In a small country like Norway, which has a high cost structure, we depend on being world leaders in industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e944	There is a line through the business committee's treatment of the ownership notification, between those who want to use the country's ownership and capital to actively invest in building the country, developing Norwegian businesses and businesses, and even putting the whole country into use, and those who want to have a more passive attitude to this and define the country's ownership as something more different, and would like to sell themselves down as well. The state’s ownership of Norwegian business is large. It is therefore essential that it be managed in such a way that the objectives of ownership, as set out for each company in this Communication, are properly met. I think it is good that there is broad agreement on some important general principles of ownership, while the Committee's treatment also makes these clear policy lines visible. As I see it, the Progress Party, the Right and the Left form one grouping, the government fraction one, and then I think that the Christian People's Party in many ways comes into an intermediate position, partly also together with the government fraction. I think that's interesting. In my view, the country's objectives as owner must be clearly communicated, in the right forums and by those who are to represent state ownership. For the Workers' Party, it is important to stress that the country's own principles are directed against all state companies, whether they are wholly-owned or jointly-owned. These are principles that are in line with generally accepted ownership principles and deal with essential issues such as non-discrimination, transparency, independence, governance, the role of the board, etc. These principles are complemented by Norwegian recommendations for ownership and company management. It is important that these principles are followed up in practice in ownership policy. Some of the debates we've had in the last year around these issues we might have been in addition, but it's also important to have an open debate. It has to do with our open democratic society. The principles set out in the communication and the reading here today, I think, will contribute to a clear debate in the future. And so I can't debate this issue that has to do with corporate governance, without mentioning the importance of corporate democracy as a driving force in the development of business. The interaction between employees, management and owners v/steam is a special feature of the Nordic model that I believe has had great success where there is an opportunity to function. Then go to the individual companies, and I have comments on two – first State Power. I am pleased that the Government assumes that the company will work under EEA legislation to meet industry’s needs for stable and long-term power supply. Success is extremely important to further develop the world-leading competence environment and industry that are engines for industrial development in many communities around our country. When Statkraft is a possible partner with other energy companies in regional contexts, it is important that the company acts with a record and understanding of the identity of the local companies. Then I think such solutions can be very successful. The other company I would like to mention is Nammo and the subsidiary Nammo NAD. Norwegian Ammunition Disposal Company was established at the Løkken Works only in the 1990s, based on a separate kgl.res. which gave the company, as a privately owned company, the opportunity to handle military ammunition for environmentally friendly destruction in the mines on the Loop – well to mark a destruction taking place in enclosed spaces 800 m below ground under full environmental control. I think it's nice that Nammo has taken over 50 pst. of the shares of this company, so that this is now integrated into a large Nordic unit – in my view, an excellent example of state-owned industrial and environmental thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e963	I'd like to start by being a little out of touch – a little out of touch with the case manager for doing a clean and good job and getting a good cooperation in the committee, so we've got a good attitude. In contrast to the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, I believe that the government's ownership message, which we are discussing today, has been well drawn against society, both in trade and industry in general. Of course, there are nuances, shades in view, and it has our debates – it should be lacking. But basically one can conclude with a good reception. It also shows that, across policies, there has been a wide political debate on many important issues in the ownership message, on the large lines of active state ownership. A good and sound state ownership is important because it guarantees the right to dispose of common natural resources, national anchoring of important companies and revenues to the state. It ensures that enterprises have head offices and research activities in Norway. The right hand side represents a different line. They want the government to sell itself down or down to several state companies. In other words, these two parties want one to sell the heirloom, give way to big revenues for future generations, and let the market run important industries for Norway. Active state ownership is simply about community and society's needs. The importance of the environment, migration, inadequacy, ethics, research and development must be taken into account in order to ensure long-term and good development. The previous powers to sell to state companies are now withdrawn, and that's good. As everyone thinks, the Bondevik II government proposed extensive reductions in state ownership, and when the opposition claims with a broad pen that the ownership message passes the policy on to the previous government, it only becomes empty rhetoric. The ownership message takes important steps for an active enterprise policy. We also state that Statkraft, Statnett and Statskog should be kept as 100 pst. state corporations. Here we see a clear change in course in relation to the previous government. An active state ownership is also about clear guidelines for renting. Furthermore, the law on migration is now being heard, and in a short time, in the spring of 2008, there will be a big message on innovation. These are measures that address the concept of ‘active enterprise policy’ — for value creation and for increased well-being. Finally, I registered under the lines of exchange between the representative Øyvind Korsberg from the Progress Party and the representative Lars Peder Breck from the Center Party that Korsberg said that the Progress Party will transfer Statskog to the municipalities because they have confidence and trust in the municipalities. This is, in my opinion, new tones. The policy of the Progress Party is permeated by state governance. I can take an example of that. It concerns health and hospitals, it concerns care services through a state check and not least other measures at the local level to be managed through ear-marked funds in a large-scale manner. Is this the Progress Party calling to trust and trust the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e980	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e983	There were two concepts I missed in the Council of State's presentation. One was ‘private ownership’. It was expected that he would not talk about it. The second was ‘active enterprise policy’, which I did not hear either. It was actually also as expected, because no one is faster than the Council of State to perceive when political rhetoric has expired. The Council of State says here and in the notice that they have taken action to clarify and clarify how to operate state-owned companies. However, the need for that clarification was created by the red-greens themselves through electoral campaign rhetoric and the magic word ‘active enterprise policy’, as well as a number of individual statements by free-range cluster representatives on how this should be organised, each time views were taken on everything from buying-in to governance. Active business policy would solve all the problems of business, almost as if you were facing the invasion of the land. The problem was that there was a policy in place in the last period that had provided such a framework that it was already in the country. It was done through a fiscal policy that gave lower interest rates, competitive crown prices, employment increased, and increased tax input. Not least for this reason, the question of the question of the fight against ‘active enterprise policy’ is problematic — not that there was a lack of clarity about the country’s ownership policy, it has been a cross-political consensus over several decades, through changing governments, and also through the sales of workers’ party governments. This shows the setting. It is quite typical that one of the directors, who is also the administrative director of one of the listed companies, said at the time of the notification that, to the extent that the notification clears the way, there are uncertainties that have been created. Fortunately, the message contains little new information about the country's ownership. It is and becomes a world of great words, minimal with changes and entries of open doors. The only person who finds ‘active enterprise policy’ in this must be the representative of Gullvåg, who spoke a lot about this in his speech. The Communication also talks about ‘social responsibility’, as if the concept had been invented by the Government now. And the Labour Party leader in his speech says that taking social responsibility does not conflict with profitability. It can sometimes do that. So what are the governments going to do? What when the objectives of social responsibility collide with profitability and the annual notice to be sent by the Government? And in the case of this particular annual notice, the new Letter of Ownership, it is said to express the Government’s policy ‘as it is communicated to the Stortinget’. This means that since nothing has been said specifically in the notice, neither can the Government instruct the directors of the companies. It's actually some of the most important things about this message. It will not restrict the governments of the companies, but it will restrict the individual representatives of the position parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e996	We are dealing with a good message, which, in my opinion, will safeguard the interests of our owners in a good and credible way. I think, as opposed to the opposition, that we are now making sense of what has been said and stated about an active ownership. The notification represents it in a good, sound and predictable manner. I want to draw attention to one of the companies I think has a major and important social role, namely State Power. Over the last decades, state power has evolved into a company that may have one of the greatest and most important social roles in our society. Of course, an important part is that the company should have a strong ability to produce power, while the company has the power to fulfil the role it is now entrusted with through the notification of ownership, to meet the industry’s need for stable and long-term framework conditions in the supply of power. I am not sure if the expectations that have been attached to the company until now have been met. On the other hand, the notification of ownership and the exercise of ownership should be the basis for meeting these expectations, and I have great confidence in that. I am therefore very pleased that the Government emphasises the role of State Power in meeting this point about the industry's need for stable and long-term power supply. I also think it is valuable to emphasise it precisely in this debate and in a way to create even greater expectations that State power actually wants to comply with what is set out in the Communication of Ownership, and in so far also through the consideration of the Communication by the Committee. Another important part that may not be so much focused is the company’s regional role. Among other things, through the ownership of Trondheim Energieverk, Skagerak Energie, BKK and Agder Energie, Statkraft has a significant role and responsibility towards 580,000 network customers, 570,000 power customers. Much of this is focused on and is about regional development related to broadband, district heating and, in particular, new power projects. It is important that Statkraft, together with its regional partners, perform the role assigned to them in regional development in those areas. There are great expectations that State power as a company will fulfil this role. I therefore believe that it is important to consider performance requirements and other target forms for the company on an ongoing basis after the ownership notification has been dealt with. In this area, I have great faith that both the Government and not least the Council of State are following up in an active and credible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1007	It is tempting to say after all the boast about the large Norwegian state companies that it is quite incredible that they have done so without having had a notice to look at. There have been great expectations for the ownership message, perhaps especially because, through a tough election fight and in the two years that followed, a dramatic change in Norwegian ownership policy has been announced. The message we are discussing today must be a great disappointment to the local politicians in the red-green parties who have faced such a change in course and who have believed in the signals of their party leaders. To a large extent, the Communication sets out a description of the current situation and sets out some indefinable objectives for the management of companies, objectives for the preservation of ethics, the environment, diversity, etc. But what is absolutely missing is how this is to be measured, and what is good enough in the different areas of satisfactory achievement of the government's objectives. At the same time, there is an annual governance document, which can be exciting for members of the government parties at Stortinget. I believe that this will lead to an annual debate, perhaps primarily led by dissatisfied members of the government parties sitting in this Chamber. Because there is no doubt that this communication signals to a large extent a continuation of the ownership policy that the previous government had. Maybe we should be happy about that. Therefore, we will continue to experience red-green politicians who drive ownership through the media and not through general meetings or board meetings. It has sometimes seemed that individual parties have had a harvest hunt for directors and directors of entire or part-owned Norwegian companies. In the Hydro–Statoil merger we experienced so much noise around naming and locating that finally an employee of the Hydro government went out into today’s business on 7 February and asked the politicians to ‘check down’. But before there were many opinions about options, executives, final packages, Bangladesh, women's representation, directors, ethics – yes, as long as it doesn't apply to the defence industry, then. But back to what I call the red-green harvest hunt for directors and directors. In today's business life on 15 January, the present representatives Gullvåg and Kvalvik say that Hydro-shef Eivind Reiten does not have the right positions that they believe are required to defame the board of directors of the new Norwegian company. It may therefore be clarifying for Stortinget to know what positions are expected of the directors of Norwegian companies to satisfy a socialist government. For this moment is not described in the ownership message. But it is clear that the Hydro Manager's positions are so bad that they must affect his role as future director. To look at his skill as a manager and the result his company has provided for his owners is obviously subordinate. But it would have been a good idea to clarify what attitudes you should have in Norwegian companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1021	When some opposition representatives wonder that private ownership has not been adequately mentioned in this debate, this may be because we are actually discussing state ownership today. To the representative of Fostervold, who leaves a doubt about our ability and ability to discuss leadership in state enterprises and, to the extent, in private enterprises, I have to say that it cannot be that governments and business leaders in private or public enterprises should be exempt from political criticism or opinion. When, for example, If we have lucrative option agreements or wage agreements, we politicians must therefore refrain from commenting on this, because such comments may affect the share price – still according to these representatives. Now I think there are completely different reasons why investors on the world's stock exchange against suspicion should have apopemic seizures, than criticism from a Jan Bøhler – or, to some extent, from the undersigned, for that matter. On the other hand, I know that the fact that the option agreements and the management's wages can be a cause of nervous commotions both at Majorstua and at Youngstorget, at the social partners, who take responsibility and take responsibility for the implementation of wage settlements within the tolerance of the Norwegian economy. Then I would like to say that we must be able to demand – and that is the purpose of this ownership message – that those who are to manage and manage publicly owned enterprises, in whole or in part, must meet the expectations of the owners, public or private, who govern. If they don't, the consequences are given.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1032	The representative Tybring-Gjedde came, asked and went. However, I will still allow myself to give a brief answer to some of the specific questions he raised in relation to the fact that the State would buy unprofitable services – if we were to have it from public companies. He asked me to mention examples of that. Yeah, examples of that are the Post, where we buy unprofitable services, we buy it on railway routes, we buy it on air routes, and we buy it from private companies in connection with Hurtigruta. So there's a lot of examples of that, and it's neatness compared to the fact that the company shouldn't be required to do something that's unprofitable, but gets paid to deliver those services. So to the representative Fleet, who said that I had not mentioned anything about private ownership and nothing about active industrial policy. That's wrong. I mentioned both parts of my introduction. But it is true that I spoke mainly about the ownership message and the country's ownership. As far as active business policy is concerned, there is much more. It is not the case that this should be the active business policy. The active business policy is that we have lost business neutrality. It is that we are betting on the maritime sector in a completely different way from the previous government, with concrete measures on net pay, extended GIEK frameworks – at the latest extended loan guarantees for shipyards to build boats. It is that we are focusing on the marine sector with a clearer, clearer fisheries policy, also with funds to support the development of further processing of fisheries resources. It is that we are betting on the energy sector much wider than the Government has done, and in the interface with the environment has extended the fund to Enova. We are betting on a feed-in system that provides support for new energy sources, etc. In the tourism sector, we have doubled our efforts in relation to the previous government, which has led to even the NHO saying that we are doing a good job, and that is good. Business is doing well today – not just because of this government, it is doing well internationally, and there are good framework conditions. But precisely in that situation, we should be able to discuss together: what do we do to make business go well when a recession strikes? It's in that context that I'm a little disappointed, especially over the Right that seems to be stuck in old ideological sticks that it per. definition is wrong of the state to own, in line with Edmund Burke and Adam Smith and other ideologists. But Norway is in a special situation because it's going well, and because we have a lot of capital coming from a one-time income, which is the oil and gas sector. That's when I invite the Storting to participate in a discussion about how to use this capital, together with private capital, to ensure that we invest in the business that will carry the welfare state on the day we don't have the oil and gas revenues, i.e. use Norway's unique situation together between the state and the private to provide tomorrow's business life based on research, development and new products.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1043	That's not the case, what the Council of State said, that the Right has something in principle against the State being the owner. It's just that we want to limit it to the areas where this is necessary to ensure important national interests. Nor is it true that the representative of Gullvåg said that our criticism is that the government party has not mentioned private ownership. It is described from the red-green settings and from the main speakers of the Working Party earlier today. The problem is that it didn't mention anything at all. No information was given about how to strengthen it. The representative, Eldegard, said in connection with private ownership that this with property taxes means very little. Yes, it's not the reactions I've been given when it concerns the strong notation of e.g. the value of the assets and the value of the equations in parts of business and the general increase in the taxes on wealth. My question, which the representative Eldegard would not or could not answer, and which no one else has answered, is: why can't the government party go in for a collective presentation of how we can strengthen private Norwegian ownership, not only in large companies, but also in the many small businesses? We ask in proposal No. 1 to get a big message about this, because we believe that what we need from state-owned, foreign and private Norwegian investments is important for the further development of Norwegian business. Then the Council of State says in its main post that there has been a strong increase in nutrition research. Yes, there are many ways to use numbers. In fact, there was a rather sharp decline in relation to the Centre-Right-Registration proposed for 2006, and it was not even entirely created for 2007. So here's a lot of ways to use numbers. And then finally, the representative Arne L. The mound was on a very interesting theme. He's talking about the Nordic model. It's a very good model; how especially Nordic he is, we can discuss, but at least we've managed to get a model here in the country and in some of the other countries that makes conversion happen because there's some security in the system, and one can get growth, development, change and security at the same time. What I want to remind the representative, Haugen, is that the general agreement on the excellence of this model, which makes the model work, came when the Workers' Party met the reality fully during the Willoch period in the early 1980s and realized that security without conversion and a direction towards the market, instead of controlling the market, was impossible. So this model is very much in agreement, and I hope we can further develop it with emphasis on both conversion and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1054	I listened with interest to the Council of State, which in its last speech had an excellent review of parts of the active enterprise policy that the Government has now put in place. I would also like to comment on the post of the representative Svein Flätten from the Right, who had a guest appearance here instead. He tried to roll over the same active business policy to the Government. He said in this regard that one should almost look into the land of the two. In fact, I feel that the representative Fleet is running over his own policy, because he says at the same time that the Right also had an active industrial policy. I almost have to ask: if the sale of SND Invest, which former State Council Gabrielsen from the Right, is an example of the active and targeted business policy to the Right, it speaks its own language. It was criticised by many teams, and it turns out that the increase in the company's capitalisation has been significant in retrospect. It was just a warning about that. So if that's the ideological approach to the active business policy from the Right, I'll warn against it. Otherwise, more from the opposition mention that private operators do not require a new fund, and it is also referred to the Business Federation in this context. But I experience when I'm out talking to private companies and private business owners, that they actually want to have capital in addition to the Argentum system and the seed scheme. Because there is a lack of capital in the interplay here for companies that want to develop. It lacks capital, and then I think of state capital that can help trigger private capital, because that's what we want. The point is to trigger more private capital. In this way, these companies can exploit growth opportunities both nationally and internationally. I would like to stress to those who claim that there is no need for such capital, that this year the OECD has pointed out that the level of venture capital in Norway is low, and that for example. stimulating that form of investment may help to increase the commercialisation potential of Norwegian R & D. So I want to give praise to the government council, which has already come so far in the follow-up to the ownership announcement. A strategic fund is at the beginning that can help to further develop national ownership, a cooperation between private and public capital. I think the business community will be happy to accept that capital when they are going to further develop their national and international efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1063	At the very end of the debate I need a red-green clarification. It concerns the proposal distributed in the Chamber, proposal No. 34, where we call on the Government to set up a food fund of DKK 2 billion to help raise competitive innovation projects. It's identical to what the prime minister was out saying at the end of last week. It might be interesting for Stortinget to know whether this proposal is supported, or whether the red-green parties here at Stortinget do not follow up the Government at this point either. So before the debate ends, I ask you to clarify that very question. So I want to take the opportunity to comment on some of the things that have been said. I fully agree with the representative Lars Peder Breck that there is a lack of capital for parts of the business community. Now, what's a little bit funny is that you write the exact opposite of the setting. But it must be a problem for the representative Lars Peder Breck and the red-green ones. So for the sale Progress Party here suggests on approx. $300 billion. If that sale had been made to put even more money into an overcrowded treasury, it would have been – I should not use the expression pointlessly, but it is not far away. What we want to do with that sale is to use these and even more resources to push down the whole country, in the form of capital to business, in the form of road investments, in the form of investments to secure regions at risk. That means that the whole nation would enjoy these means, and that they're not just locked up in a few companies. That's the big difference. It's not about the sale of the heirloom silver. This is about managing the inheritance silver in a new and modern way, so you're not just locked in old-fashioned thinking, as part of the parties today are. So a sale just to fill the treasury we don't think is the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1072	The representative Breck has had the word twice, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1075	This concerns the last request by the Øyvind Korsberg of the Progress Party for proposal No. Thirty-four. It is quite interesting to see that the proposal comes here, as a follow-up to the work to be done in relation to the budget for next year. I would like to say that it cannot be characterised as anything but an obstruction proposal. At the same time, I think it is right, given the situation we are in, to ask the Progress Party to consider whether the proposal can be forwarded to the Government for further consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1080	The representative of Korsberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to one minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1083	I would have asked that it be used such expressions as that this is an obstruction proposal. We are promoting this proposal because we believe so. We have a five-six other fund proposals in the vote, but we think it was such an interesting and good signal the Prime Minister made, that it was quite natural for us to promote that proposal in the context of the ownership announcement. We're not going to turn it into a transmission proposal. I believe that the Stortinget should be so concrete that one dares to address the issues that are being discussed here, and follow up the Government. It would be quite strange if the opposition parties were to promote the Government's proposal, and then the positioning parties would vote against the proposal. So I strongly recommend to the government parties to support an excellent proposal that comes from the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1088	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2614]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1108	In February, I visited one of the world’s poorest countries, Malawi, in southern Africa. The aim was to review national health services, with particular emphasis on vaccine coverage and child mortality. It was the impressions from there that triggered this interpolation. One of the things that hit me most was the catastrophic lack of doctors and nurses. One of the things that provoked me most was that rich countries have contributed to the problem by organising the recruitment of health workers from poor countries south of Sahara. This is how obstacles are put in place to the success of their struggle to get out of poverty and get a good life. World society, headed by the United Nations, gathered at the turn of the century on a great promise of solidarity. Then the thousand-year targets were adopted. The goals were many and ambitious. We need to halve absolute poverty by 2015, and we need to reduce child mortality vigorously, to mention something. Norway has had a special focus on the fight against child mortality. That's good. We contribute strongly to higher vaccine coverage. But the effort is undermined by rich, purchasing countries deliberately recruiting doctors and nurses from the world's poorest country. In a cheap way, the world's richest buys out of its own problems, and the price is paid by the poorest, who receive poorer health care, or no health care at all. This is not solidarity, rather the opposite. And the results are scary. Today more Benin doctors are working in France than in Benin. There are more health workers from Malawi in the Manchester area in England than in Malawi, according to the president of the country a few years ago. In just under a decade, from 1993 to 2002, Ghana lost 600 of its 800 doctors. In the big city of London, almost half of the nurses are from overseas countries. Every year 20 000 health workers emigrate — doctors, nurses, midwives, etc. – from the African continent to Europe or North Africa. The wave of power in the rich countries will intensify this pressure. The deadline for recruitment agencies, health institutions and labour authorities to vacuum poor countries for health professionals in order to solve their own staffing problems cheaply. NORAD's senior adviser in this area, Bjarne Garden, says this: ‘We never achieve the Millennium Health Goals in the world’s poorest countries whose health professionals are recruited to serve our health welfare.’ That's quote from Aid Current No. 1 for this year. The fact that some rich countries rely on the immigration of health professionals from poor countries is related to crime is considered by the editor of the internationally recognised medical journal The Lancet. The head of the British Medical Association calls it looting. The editor of the Norwegian medical journal, Journal of the Norwegian Medical Association adds: ‘There are no reasons to disagree.’ I think they're right. Of course, there will be a certain shift of health professionals between countries. It is not possible to regulate this at individual level. In my opinion, however, we must prevent rich countries from operating organized recruitment from developing countries which themselves suffer from a shortage of health professionals. From my time as Minister of Health, and from my time as Minister of Labour, I remember that we tried to follow an ethically justified line: We are not going to actively recruit health professionals from vulnerable countries who lack health professionals themselves. I would like to have the Government's assurance that this still applies. But that's not enough. We have to do more. In the view of the Christian People's Party, Norway should now establish a comprehensive action programme to overcome this serious obstacle to our joint efforts to achieve the Millennium Goals. And we have to work together internationally to get it done. Former Development Minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson took the initiative to do so. It's important that today's government follow it up. That is why I challenge the Government of Solheim State Council to launch an offensive package of measures to help solve the shortage of vital health professionals in the poorest developing countries. There is no easy recipe to solve this problem. But in the international debate there have been many ideas that, in sum, can improve the situation. Let me mention someone. Internationally, we can support those developing countries who want to conclude bilateral agreements that put an end to such purchases of health professionals, such as health professionals. South Africa has concluded with several countries. But I have an idea that I would like to challenge the Council of States in concrete terms today: Norway should become a driver of an international regulation that prevents the commercial purchase of health workers from vulnerable countries who are themselves suffering from a lack of health professionals. A model can be an international framework convention under the auspices of the World Health Organisation in liaison with other UN agencies, as Gro Harlem Brundtland did with the groundbreaking Framework Convention on Tobacco Control — the first of its kind. I believe that this field here is suitable for a similar approach internationally. Will the Council of State agree to that? In this way, we can also contribute more strongly to useful measures in developing countries, for example: contribute to the improvement of pay and employment in general, not least in rural areas. Bonus programmes can be introduced for returnees. Or agreement can be negotiated on a pay interval — a kind of ‘code of conduct’ across sectors using health workers within developing countries, so that public sector bottling does not become too large. From our own experience, we can pick up successful solutions with grant schemes with service, as we know from our efforts in North Norway, which have greatly contributed to solving our own problems on the outskirts. In particular, the volume of training of doctors and health workers needs to be strengthened locally. It is much cheaper than education in Norway or in other western countries. And if the net effect is to be really good, another of the above-mentioned set of measures must also be implemented. Much of this we do, and I've seen it by self-esteem. But we need to do more, and we need to coordinate and target it even more, not least in the cooperation Norway has with countries that share our commitment in these important areas. Over many decades, international development cooperation has been weakened because the rich countries have left short-term self-interests affecting the design of aid. On the one hand, media-focused emergency assistance, the distortion of assistance to promote the economic interests of the given countries and a self-centred flag policy have shifted systematic and long-term cooperation in the basic sectors, such as education and health. Norway has worked systematically for many years to improve the quality of development cooperation. We have to keep doing that. There's a lot of examples that it needs to be. We have to stick to quality and long-term. The health gap between rich and poor countries is unimaginable. While France has 335 games per. 100 000 inhabitants, Ghana only has nine. Without good public health, the value creation and equality are hampered, and the quality of life is threatened. I am very concerned that health is not included in the list of priority areas of assistance for today's government. In particular, I am concerned about the children of the poorest countries. The provision of education and health to children can be crucial for the rest of their lives. We must therefore not weaken aid to the health sector in the world's poorest country. It must continue to be a priority. And an unwavering priority of health assistance must mean that its share of Norwegian aid should not be reduced. We have to follow up the thousand-year targets. The obligation to reduce infant mortality must be fulfilled. We must not run away from the priority of health care. I would also like to point out that this is a very important matter for women in poor countries. Education and health are keys to lifting women. And the women are keys to lifting the countries. We've seen many, many examples of that. That's why I've promoted this interpellation. The active substances are available. The solutions are not simple. A coordinated arrangement is required. It requires an international framework, some rules of play, which countries agree to follow. And that's where I think Norway can play a role. We have a pattern in the International Framework Convention on Health negotiated by Gro Harlem Brundtland. I think we can work further along that road, and achieve greater results than we've achieved until now. It does not have access to instruments. It's actually on purpose. We expect the Government to provide concrete, committed and positive answers to this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1175	Let me start by thanking Dagfinn Højbräten for bringing up a very central theme for the world's development, and also for having done so in the most constructive way possible, by even proposing what can be done. The problem was summed up for me in what Mary Robinson, the former Irish president, once said when I was at a meeting with her. In a Dublin toilet, she had met a female doctor from Nigeria who found more meaning in life — and more money — by washing the toilets in Dublin than by caring for patients in Nigeria. The world cannot be more senseless, and greater waste of resources than in this one woman's life story is hard to imagine. But we don't solve the problem of moral index fingers, just with concrete measures. Africa has 10 pst. by the population of the world. Africa might have 25 pst. of the burden of disease in the world, a little depending on how you rain. Africa has 1.3 pst. by health professionals in the world. The World Health Organization expects 2.4 million doctors in the world to reach the world's Millennium Goals, which we all agree on. Dagfinn Højbråtten gave a number of other figures and indicators to describe the problem. Let me not dwell on it. I think we agree on the situation description. What matters to me is that we don't solve this by stating that it's a moral problem of the very first order. The problem will not be solved by moral index fingers, only by concrete measures. There are two features that drive this development. One thing, which Dagfinn Højbrätten was very clear about, is that the ever-increasing need for elderly people not only in Western countries, but in rich countries, plus that for a number of diseases that previously could not be cured, now can be introduced medically, has a huge pull factor to our part of the world. High wages are offered. There's a strong demand. Those who come are well received. The second is that for the individual in many African countries and in poor countries, of course, there are very strong incentives to want to leave themselves. There may be despair over the enormous gap in the health care system in its home country – as Dagfinn Højbråten described as well from Malawi – it may be the desire for education and the future for his own children, and it may be the desire for higher pay, a more exciting professional environment, better health care equipment or a simpler and easier life. There are ten thousand good reasons why it may be desirable for the individual who has received a nurse's or doctor's education to travel. Some are also politically persecuted in their country of origin. The combination of this strong suction in us and the individual reasons for travelling is what species are doing in the health personnel crisis we are now sketching. I would warn against simplified solutions to this. With simplified solutions, I mean to think that this can be solved by pointing fingers at individual individuals. It'll hardly help. And with simplified solutions, I also mean believing that there is a strange solution to this, which is that we alone set rules, and that they will then have great international significance. It's not Norway's big number of health workers coming. And those who may be denied access to Norway will travel very easily to London or New York or Canada. Only with other countries can we find the solutions to this. Nor can we become more Indian than India or more Zambian than Zambia. We have to accept that for third-world countries there are both advantages and disadvantages of migration. The major international migration conference organized by the United Nations in New York last autumn showed that there was broad consensus in the poor countries that migration in most areas was for their benefit, not for their disadvantage. But, of course, there are special problems where the most sought-after workforce leaves and perhaps never returns, where a very gap exists, and it is not possible to achieve its own national targets. We have to put this into an international framework. So ask Dagfinn Højbräten about what the government is doing. I don't like that we're going to hit the chest all the time, but there's very few areas where we're doing as much as this. This government has dramatically increased the use of money on health since the time of the previous government, which also benefited a great deal in this area. The appropriations for GAVI and the global funds for AIDS have gone a long way. Together with the French, we have opened a whole new UNITAID, a brand new health organization. We have supported the Italian initiative for so-called Advanced Market Commitments, i.e. the development of medicines now, so that in Western countries we create guarantees that it is a market for these medicines once in the future. So there are few areas where we've done more than in terms of health, overall. If we approach the individual area we are talking about here, we are strongly involved in the ILO to look at international standards for 'decent work' and for the relationship between working conditions in each country and labour migration. The Minister of Health is strongly engaged, as former Health Ministers, in the work of the World Health Organisation. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has taken an initiative that is quite unique in an international context, namely an initiative with foreign ministers in a number of other countries to look at the relationship between health policy and foreign policy and between health policy and security policy. The conclusion there is just to mention, among other things: health care staff shortages may pose a security threat to all of us, for example: pandemics are not suffocated at first because of a lack of health professionals and working staff where an epidemic starts, it spreads to all of us. So it's a health and safety threat to all of us. I myself have agreed to sit on an international panel that is jointly established by the World Health Organisation and the Global Health Workers' Alliance, just to look at the issue raised here: what measures Western rich countries, together with developing countries, can develop to counter the health workers' crisis. As far as I know, the Minister for Health of Ghana will sit there and the Minister for Health of Nigeria will sit there, and the Minister for Labour of the Philippines will sit there. Only together can we find solutions to these problems, not through completely strange measures. What is so conceivable that we can develop actions together? There was Dagfinn Højbråten with several interesting suggestions. As I see it, finding mechanisms to train far more health professionals is the most important thing, because the suction mechanism from the West and the individual desire to leave are not something we can just adopt away from. It will exist, no matter what rules we get internationally. But a dramatic increase in the number of doctors, nurses and other trained health professionals will have a very dampening effect on this problem. We can look at opportunities for agreements with individual countries that have a particularly serious problem of their health professionals disappearing and how it can be compensated through specific training programmes for those countries. I am also keen on ideas such as duty work, etc., which can be linked to educational programmes in different ways. I do not want to go into that work with a firm attitude to do just that, but together with Ghana, Nigeria and other countries, we need to be able to develop systems and mechanisms for a drastic increase in the number of people trained in this area internationally, and in particular the number of people trained in the poorest countries. In connection with this, I fully agree with Mr. Dagfinn's statement that it is important to develop global ethical standards in this area. I would like to look at the work that has been done in the WTO in connection with the tobacco convention, to look at the possibilities of getting a framework convention, an ethical code through the UN, or if you choose other ways to do it. But once again, here you are completely dependent on what other countries want to be on. I think it's important to start this work of thinking a little bit, discussing with other countries what's the right way to go. But yes, let's jointly develop an international ethical code to address the problem, in the form of a convention or otherwise. Norway will of course refrain from its own aggressive recruitment of health workers to Norway. That's what the previous government said, that's what this government says, it was part of the care message that was treated a couple of weeks ago – three weeks ago – it's a matter of course. The fact that Norway alone refrains from doing so will not solve the problem unless we are able to find together a broader international regulatory framework and together have trained more health workers. We should also be able to look at international fund schemes in this area. Dagfinn Højbråten is himself actively engaged in GAVI. This is a good example of an international fund system for vaccines. We have the Global Fund for Tuberculosis, Malaria and AIDS. It's a fund arrangement to solve those problems. Perhaps we also need international fund schemes to look at the training of health workers. All of these things are so densely intertwined that it's almost impossible to separate them. Having adequate health professionals is as important to combat AIDS as having cheap drugs, good condoms or good advice. So all things are connected. Let me summarise: the sum of training of many more health workers, possibly supported by global funds, and an international ethical code is what I see as the way to go. But all of these things we can only do if we get other countries with us, and in dialogue with other countries. There's no strange solution. I will end with a slogan that the Progress Party once invented, but which is actually quite good. It is: the future is not adopted, it is created. It's by doing these things together that we'll be able to shape the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1217	I would like to thank the Council of State for an answer that I see as very constructive and helpful in relation to the commitment that lies behind this interpellation, and insightfully in relation to the many and complex contexts that lie behind the problem that has been described. I fully agree with the State Council, Solheim said, that this problem cannot be solved by lifting a moral index finger against individuals. It was not in my post either. We have to face the social and structural causes of the problem, and we have to take into account the individual reasons behind people's movements. I don't think ambition should be a regulation of this at the level of detail and individuals. But I believe that the countries that largely manage their health systems and labour systems themselves can commit themselves to what is acceptable, and what is not acceptable when you are in the international market and recruit staff who are scarce. There, I think, the time is ripe for a broad international initiative. I believe that the commitment now shown by the Solheim and the Government is an excellent starting point for taking such an initiative. I think it's possible to build alliances, among other things. with some of the countries mentioned by the Solheim Council. He will cooperate with this high-level group that Mary Robinson and her organization have initiated, and that's good. What's my experience with this type of work is that you have to set some bold goals if you're going to reach them, and not just say that the way is going on while you're going. That's where I'm going to get this government to commit to, and set a goal of, being involved and perhaps also taking a leading role in developing an international framework. It is the only approach that can ultimately bring the world forward in this area, and it is necessary. I see approaches to the kind of leadership and initiative in what the Council of State now says. I choose to put behind me the debate we had last month, which was quite confusing in this context. I have not wanted to address that polemic, but I really want us, as a consequence of this debate, to have Norwegian initiative and Norwegian leadership internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1230	I am very pleased that the Government will do what it can to put in place some form of international framework in this area. Just how it's going to happen, I'll still ask for understanding that we're a little bit open to, because there'll be a lot of different possible mechanisms there. You can imagine more solving ethical frameworks. You can imagine a more binding framework. You can imagine it in the United Nations, you can imagine it in immigration, you can imagine it in the World Health Organisation. There might be a lot of different ways to think about it. At least I will first consult our own systems to figure out what is the right and most likely way to succeed in what is our common goal, but then, of course, more important, through consultations with other countries, get to know what they think about it. Again, driving a strange line to get newspaper headlines in Norway might help none of us. It is to get results together with other countries that do. I share very much what Dagfinn Højbrätten said, that he felt sure – and I think it's quote – that countries like Ghana, Nigeria and others are committed to what they can accept. This is a country that has, to a large extent, a highly educated management that has a significant ability to deal with its own country’s problems and to know what is in their interest. Many of these countries do not think that it is in their interest to stop any kind of exchange of health professionals or skilled labour between countries, but it is in their interest to have a controlled form of it. We must engage in dialogue with these countries. Ghana and Nigeria are two good examples, but there are a number of other countries. I was in Zambia last week, and this is a theme there as well. It is said that there are more Zambian games in Birmingham in England than there are in Zambia. I don't know if that number is correct, but that's what the Zambians said. A dialogue with Central African countries, Asian countries, in particular, and Latin American countries about how they see this regulated for their benefit, but perhaps also for our benefit when it comes to the problem, is important. I think that's the way to go forward. And as I see it, we are in complete agreement. It is a shame to have to end the debate before the rest possibly take a position on this, but the interpellant and I at least agree completely on the way forward here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1239	It's a very important matter the interpellant has traveled, and I want to thank him for this interpellation. The mobility from poor countries to western welfare countries in the north, a ‘brain drain’, is becoming particularly serious when it comes to health professionals and care professionals. In fact, it's not just about the countries of the south either. Post-Soviet and Eastern European countries are also being tapped for skilled health professionals. When the Municipality of Oslo concluded an agreement with Lithuania to import Lithuanian nurses, how would it affect the health and care sector in Lithuania? Let me make this clear right away: we cannot and we are not going to solve the future needs of health professionals in this country by importing skilled labour from poor countries, which in this way are being tapped for sorely needed skills. We have to educate ourselves the number that we need. That should also be the objective for other countries. I have to say that it makes sense to visit clinics in poor countries, such as the clinics that Ågot Valle and I visited when we were in rural Mozambique in January this year. Both the facilities and the crew — and everything else, such as equipment — were such that no Norwegian would accept being either a day patient or admitted. Nevertheless, the staff did a great job within the framework they had, which was probably better than average for hospitals in the poor and war-torn country, for this was partly UN-funded. It makes the impression to hear HIV-infected women say that we die quietly, like sheep. It makes the impression to meet an AIDS woman in the 50s who sits on the ground outside the cabin saying, and the home help that comes with food and medicine three days a week. Even the energy didn't the woman do anything. This is, of course, a lack of resources, but it is also a lack of staff. The World Health Organization has, as was said here, estimated that worldwide 2.4 million doctors, nurses and midwives are missing to master the health-related thousand-year targets. The gap is, not unexpectedly, greatest in southern Africa and in south-east Asia. At the same time, as we have now been described, thousands of health workers leave Africa in particular, but also Asia, to serve the multiple in clinics with completely different facilities in the north – and not just to work in clinics, but also in completely different professions. There is also another collection of qualified staff in poor countries who will be able to talk about it. A trained doctor in Maputo gets a much higher salary for driving a Red Cross car or being a driver of the United Nations than working at the local hospital. This is something that all aid organisations have a responsibility to prevent. It is also my appeal to the Minister of Health, that this is something that is being addressed. I also remember that this was very precarious when I was in Kabul two years ago. Then it is important that we contribute to strengthening the competences of developing countries. We have to keep working in the Global Health Workers' Alliance. We need to follow up on the work we are doing in the GAVI, which has been mentioned by both the inter-pellant and the Council of State, where, moreover, the High Bridge is now on the board, and we need to continue in the Global Fund for Combating AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. The participation of the Council of State in an international high-level group and his and the other involvement of the Government are great. But we can do more. There are no simple solutions, I would also stress that. However, the interpellant mentioned the possibility of obtaining international legislation — I think he used the term ‘framework convention’ — which may then be under the auspices of the World Health Organisation, to look at what is happening both legally and illegally in relation to the mobility of health professionals. I notice that the Council of State says he will look at this in cooperation with other countries. I think this sounds very interesting. But let me also stress what the Council of State said, that Norway, of course, cannot solve these problems alone, for which there must be multinational multilateral cooperation. Let me stop quoting someone from Mozambique, in this case a health worker, who says that the worst thing is to tell them that they're going to die. We also remember that it still poses a great risk just to have a child born in many poor countries. We can do something about it if the will is there. Finally, we are not going to moralize individuals, but we are going to solve this with multilateral and bilateral measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1260	This is an important interpellation. As I have been able to judge it, there are good posts and good recordings that have come. There are some concrete proposals that I am sure we will also have the opportunity to come back to after these are fabricated and discussed with international partners. This is a serious problem and it has probably been there for a long time, but has only been very raised to the surface in recent times. It's probably both right and necessary. We're meeting this problem in so many ways. All countries have the fundamental challenge of wanting the functioning of health services for our citizens. If that's what we notice at least in an up-and-coming democracy, it's the pressure from the citizens to have health and care services that work. That right and to make this work, we want for everyone whether you live in Norway or in another country. The attractiveness of Norway and many other rich countries is natural. All the speakers have said that it's not an easy-to-use recipe or a simple recipe. I will not claim to have it either – far from it. I'm very humble compared to the fact that this issue is complex. I don't think Norway, and I think the Council of State also said, is a bad thing in this area. I don't even think we can reach the range of countries that pose a big problem here. For example, there are some Arab states that have imported almost the entire health system from the poor part of the world. The challenge may be to bring some of those countries into such a dialogue, for France and the United Kingdom, we should probably have a certain opportunity to engage in dialogue at least. However, with some of these countries, the challenge may be even greater, and we know that the labour force is imported in relation to most care, service, etc. There is a lot that needs to be done – we clearly need to educate more people. But if everyone who is trained, more or less consistently disappears, it is clear that then one must have a more holistic intervention on this, and that immediately brings us into a more developmental perspective. Now we get several opportunities to get back to that. But I want to say that to get this up and stand on a more permanent basis, we need to get to a general economic growth, get rid of the poverty problem. When I sat and prepared myself a little bit for this, I tried to look at other countries that have historically experienced some of the same issues, but which today may have come further. For example, 30 years ago, South Korea lost a lot of labour, not especially in the health sector, but still. Today, almost no one will leave South Korea. India is still struggling in the health system, it is to be said. India is diverse, but today there are also many who return to India because they want to be involved in building up. I'm not going to relate it specifically to health. However, it shows that moving countries, countries with a certain degree of democracy and economic growth, may be able to be attractive also for workers who have emigrated in the past. It's also important to bring it in such a picture. Countries experiencing a poor set of governance, such as: Zimbabwe today, almost throwing its competence out of the country. There's also something we need to have with us, and something I'm sure the Council of State and the Government will bring with them when they're working on this on a broad basis to ensure that the countries themselves can well be catalysts for educating more people, to keep the workforce and make it attractive not only to work in health care but simply to live in the country. It has to be a fundamental prerequisite for this. Then we'll get back to further action. I am pleased that the Council of State has expressed that he has this so high on his agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1273	One may have several approaches to this matter, as I think it is very deserving that the Højbråtten has taken up. Interpellence is also an example of the issue of the balance between general and more specific health interventions as part of the aid policy. Among other things, this was also the theme when some of us on March 5th met representatives of the global funds and the department's political leadership. These are important issues. It concerns the balance between the type of vaccination measures, for example: against tuberculosis or anti-AIDS and malaria therapy on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the establishment of a healthcare system centrally and especially locally, where access to skilled professionals of different types is a major problem. At the top, a question can be asked: What have we actually achieved if we rescue children from certain diseases through therapy and vaccination, if they still die because of malnutrition and malnutrition, or if mothers die because of bad offers before, during and after pregnancy and childbirth? Fortunately, thousands of children are rescued through excellent vaccine and therapy programmes. However, the balance sheet is a challenge because these programmes are so much more concrete, fast, easily understandable and easier to evaluate. It provides motivation for countries and large private donors to contribute financially. For us in our work, it becomes important to be aware of the whole range of health services when we prioritise and grant, because we get the maximum effect of the individual measures when the whole chain is working. How best to contribute to the strengthening of health services in the weakest developing countries is, in itself, a good enough substance for a long and interesting debate. The interpellation was given an extra topicality at the Minister of Development’s pre- Easter performance on imports of health professionals from developing countries into Norway. Such a lookout was in the press, it must be admitted that it was alarming, because it could immediately give a reflection in the direction of: since colonial times in countries have exploited and exploited labour and natural resources in these countries for their own benefit. Now one's going to keep picking up the human resources, but just foaming the cream, it's those with the skills we need. That's how one could perceive it. In the right we choose to perceive it more nuanced than then, and expect it to correspond to the Government's attitude. It also confirms the state council here today, and I think it is very happy. This approach is based on the need for labour in the Norwegian health sector. Then there are many relationships that need to be drawn in. First of all, we need to be more effective at defining the need – concretely – in our own healthcare system. Secondly, there is no doubt that the organisational solutions we choose have implications for manning, and there is a lot more knowledge needed. Thirdly, there is a whole range of measures to make better use of those with relevant education and to mobilise latent Norwegian labour resources in this area — that is the full list of sandwiches of part-time, full-time, retirement, return to work and a number of more. As a doctor, I will not fail to include a point that I believe that increased efforts in prevention health care, with particular emphasis on lifestyle diseases, could also reduce some of the need for health care in our own country. Finally, there is also a point of labour input from the rest of the world. It's old and well-known in the country. For a number of years, we have had a number of good employees in various professions, in particular from Germany, the Netherlands and other Western European countries, eventually also from Eastern European countries, and a number of Norwegian health workers have been educated abroad. Then comes the question of distant countries and developing countries. Then it demands a strong awareness of what, where and how we do it. There are two completely different situations if we turn to India, or to several of the countries of Sub-Saharan Africa. In the latter case, it is about countries where the health care system is very vulnerable, and where – it seems that we all agree on – rather we need to help strengthen their access to health professionals. I think the interpellant's proposal to the Government is valuable, and we are responding to the Government's reactions, which are to date welcome, and that is gratifying. There is no doubt that the international framework will be important. Cooperation projects may be considered to be beneficial to both parties. Such projects will be interesting to develop. The main message, however, is, overall, any approach to such projects in this type of country, that we must recognise that our needs, however rational and well-founded they are in a Norwegian perspective, are to count for a great need compared to the screaming and fundamental unmet needs of several of these countries. Then we're going to align our priorities to such ethical guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1296	I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Højbräten, who has addressed extremely important issues. I also think he has made proposals for solutions, particularly at international level, to which I believe the Minister for Development really agrees, and I think that is very good. The high tide has seen the major challenges in Malawi. The representative Marit Nybakk described our journey to Mozambique, and I agree with the impressions she described. But I want to add that the crisis that is experienced in many countries, as in Mozambique, is actually reinforced by health workers dying of HIV and AIDS. Then I will give praise to the Minister for Development for a very good answer. It should now be reasonably clear that Norway should not engage in aggressive, targeted recruitment of health and care workers from poor developing countries. Few parts of the world are more affected by brain flu than just Africa, which more people have been involved in. Africa has major health challenges in addition to all other challenges, such as: the fact that the poorest countries have to pay the highest price for man-made climate change. If we can help to strengthen higher education institutions and the capacity of poor countries, it will be important development contributions. But there are, as we know, clear 'push and pull' factors in migration in general, which means that we have to make sure that educational development goes side by side with the development of health institutions and health care, so that those who train actually get a job they can live off. Countries must be given the opportunity to provide pay and working conditions to health workers, so that it becomes less attractive to travel to rich countries to work. An example is Nancy Wambui Itotia, who came to the United Kingdom in 2001. She had 25 years of experience as a nurse from her native Kenya, from maternity medicine, family planning and immunology. In the World Magazine X, she and other health workers who were sent for rich countries are described. The main reason she left Kenya was that she could not support her family on her nursing salary. The salary in Kenya was actually one-sixth of what she has in her home care in Oxfordshire. The home country of Kenya has only 12,600 nurses, while the need, according to the Kenyan Association of Nurses, is at least 20,000. Then they might have taken a little bit. If, through Norwegian development assistance, we can help Kenya and other African countries to increase their educational capacity combined with other measures, this may mean that women like Nancy could support their three children by working in Kenya, and that the country will not lose important skills and capacity. Then there's another moment that belongs here. The article in the World Magazine X also shows that neoliberal demands from the World Bank and the IMF have led to severe cuts in the health budgets and have thus dropped public health. It also belongs to this issue. With the women's glasses and the glasses on, I would like to highlight the work of the Red-Green Government and the Minister of Development on women's sexual and reproductive rights and health. There are important links to UN Millennium Goal No. 4 and 5, which is just about child mortality, maternal mortality and the global health challenges that lie there. The consideration of these health challenges also means that it is important not to contribute to the brain flow of health professionals from poor developing countries. But it is also quite right, as both the inter-pellant and the Minister for Development have said, that here we must contribute to international arrangements. Some of the hindrances are said to have a major challenge in recruiting health professionals here in Norway. The main solution must be to give the many who work part-time involuntarily, the right to full-time work, equal opportunities for shift and rotation work, and not least to provide a working environment within the health and care sector that makes people – and there are mainly women in this context – able to work all their lives and not be pushed out because over-efficient work makes them ill.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1319	First of all, thank you to the interpellant, Dagfinn Højbråten, who has taken up a very important topic. In the past, it was somewhat unclear to me what the Minister of Development wanted with his play on getting nurses from poor developing countries. Is the lack of nurses in Norway a problem that will only increase in the future? Or is it sending the Norwegian debate on labour immigration on a new track? Should the voters be converted from a restrictive line to realise that Norway needs to participate in the competition for international labour in order to solve a wide range of health and other jobs in Norway in the future? Is labour in the process of becoming a capital – an international asset flowing freely around, across national borders, in search of the highest wages? One of the things that bothers me about the debate, and as the Minister for Development has mentioned today, is that the ethical aspects often come a long way. There's talk of a win-win situation, that it's not just about solving your own personnel crisis in the health sector, but that we're also going to help the sick and the poor in Africa. However, this is only produced when we know that south of the Sahara, more than 600,000 new nurseries are needed to meet the Millennium Goals. There's a large number of nurses. There is a alarming need for basic health services related to infant mortality, tuberculosis, HIV and AIDS. From this point of view, I find it unethical to pick up health workers from poor countries to Norway. Already today in Europe we have ten times as many nurses as you have in Africa. Should this abyss between us and them be even bigger? Should we base our prosperity on the poverty of others? We know today that the lack of nurses is global. If all rich countries were to follow the previously mentioned recipe of the Minister of Development, there would not be many health workers left in Malawi and other poor countries. Already today, only one in ten Malawi doctors work in the home country, which has also been mentioned by several. In countries like Zambia, Ghana, Malawi and South Africa, almost half of newly educated nurses travel to rich countries in the north. As a result, Africans will increasingly die from damage and diseases that we in Norway survive with shine. I believe that in Norway we need and can do a lot more to address our own lack of health professionals and nurses. These include: to obtain much more from the labour reserve we already have in Norway, for example by: providing nurses who so wish, full-time jobs, reducing sick leave and making it more attractive to be in the profession. Today, in Norway, two nurses are trained for each nurse who is actually in the profession. Furthermore, Norway should become a driver in order to promote the training of health professionals in poor countries. We have great opportunities to provide educational staff, to provide skills on working conditions and social conditions, to provide skills on textbooks, etc. A nurse in Taiwan recently told me that almost all the nurses in Taiwan end after a few years, because the country has no framework for how many hours you can work in the health sector. If part of the training or practice is taken in Norway, there is today the possibility to conclude agreements that the trained staff will go to their country of origin after completion of education. From the Norwegian side, as mentioned above, we can probably contribute a lot of things, both in terms of expertise and in terms of learning materials. This is, as the interpellant took up, also an important woman question. Finally, I would suggest that the Government make these ethical guidelines or the action programme, as the representative of the Højbrätten mentioned. It should be a starting point for Norway not to silence poor countries for health workers. If health workers from poor developing countries are to be involved in Norway, it should be clarified so that poor countries benefit most. In addition, Norway should go ahead to develop international guidelines, as already mentioned by the Council of State, in order not to drain poor countries for health workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1339	The interpellant addresses a very important issue that we have also discussed in the Health and Care Committee in connection with St.meld. No 25 for 2005-2006, Mestring, opportunities and meaning. With the growing number of elderly people here in Norway, we were busy getting people to work in care and care in the future, especially nationally. But it is a topic that needs to be seen from several sides, as this debate has shown. The number of older people is increasing worldwide, not just in Norway. Most European countries will have deficits on health and social workers in the coming years. Therefore, it is not just a challenge for us – as we discussed in connection with St.meld. No 25 – but, as the interpellant points out, a problem for many other countries. The message we addressed before Easter says a lot about the national needs we have for people to work in care and care, and how we're going to acquire them skills. There are different ways of doing this, and this has also been discussed from this pulpit. However, the issue of labour immigration in the health sector, which has been particularly focussed on in the media just after our debate in the United Kingdom, has engaged many. The need for labour is a major challenge, and the question is how we can get people with the quality we want into work. But it can't be that we add up to an active recruitment policy where we bottle up other countries for labour, especially Africa, as mentioned. The goal must be that we ourselves are able to train the health and social personnel we need. Our future challenges nationally are to get young people to take such training, to get more men into the professions, but also to preserve the environment for the people who are already there. In the national health plan and in the care notification, St.meld. No 25 is the policy of national leaders. We know that there are many unemployed people, we know that there are people with disabilities and people with a migrant background who want to work, and they have to have the opportunity to do so. There are many involuntary part-time workers who represent our labour reserves, and they must be mobilised. In this way, the need for labour immigration in this field is reduced. In addition, it has been shown that we need increased labour migration. But we cannot buy out by importing labour from the poor countries. They need the labour force themselves. Previous speakers spoke about the ethical principles and ethical guidelines on how to deal with this matter, and that is important. We must have an ethical perspective in the policy-making process with regard to the labour force we may need to put in place. What we know a lot about is that highly trained health workers from the third world would like to come here and work, and it's clear when we hear the stories about what it's like to work, for example. in Africa. But it does mean that we are impoverishing the country's own health care system. We must take joint responsibility for not doing so, and we must also try to take action to prevent that from happening. There are a lot of measures mentioned here, and they need to be put in place globally to solve this, with support for education where it should actually be, building up health care with the countries that are the weakest, and trying to contribute skills so that we can help each other. And then we have to take the national challenges, which we have also discussed in the context of the big picture. We need to contribute internationally in terms of money, we need to provide transfers and contributions, so that we have the opportunity to take action, as the Council of State has mentioned. And then, as I said, we have to take the big national challenges that we're not getting away from. But we have to see this in context. It is a major challenge, both nationally and internationally, to have a good quality workforce and to provide good care in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1360	It is not difficult to join all the speakers who have highlighted the importance and timeliness of this inter-pelling debate. One could be tempted to ask: Is this a health policy interpellation, or is it an aid/development policy interpellation? The answer to that is probably yes. In this context, there could have been as great a reason why the Minister of Health replied on behalf of the Government as the Minister of Development does. But it might illustrate the difficulty level of the problem, because all countries have a duty to solve their problems on their own. At the same time, we live in a world where borders become more and more invisible, both in a literal sense and in a transferred sense, and where it is more difficult and more difficult to pursue national policies across what other countries do, both in terms of general economic policy, in terms of legislation, and in terms of the possibilities of regulating people's access to mobility, both for shorter periods and in the long term. This means that the level of political difficulty in the interpellant problem complex is unusually high. It is also unusually easy to use this problem complex to illustrate the point of the Gro Harlem Brundtland in its time characterized in its immortal way, that everything is related to everything. It's quite right, as the representative of Vallersnes pointed out, that it helps very little with massive resource efforts and expert efforts to carry out infant vaccination all over the globe, if at the same time we drain all the environments in which these babies are to grow up, for the necessary skills to ensure that they get a real life. A little brutally said, we are risking the kind of help to lead people to death, instead of letting them die a death of mercy. So brutal is reality. It's also a cross of thought that we live in a world where it seems that it's those parts of the globe where public health is best, that are constantly magnetically attracting more and more health workers. More and more qualified health workers are looking for places where most health workers are already present, because there is an exciting professional environment. Professional environments have been able to become their own goals, regardless of the people in need of help. So we're facing a whole series of cross-breeds. How to find effective policy responses is not easy to see. In Norway, for more than half a hundred years, it has been based on training a significant proportion of the health workers we use, for example: doctors and dentists, in countries other than Norway. It doesn't have to be critical, to the extent that you pay for the services properly. And to the extent that it is to burden countries of the same degree of development, with the same type of economy and with the same type of education system, there is no ethical problem with that. What must be important, however, is that each country’s politicians think as far as possible from the bottom of how to use human resources, how to use their own education system, and how to prioritise on their own behalf and within their own boundaries in terms of wage policy and other measures, in order to ensure that they have access to health workers for whom they need. And that's the most difficult of all, which I'll just mention at the end. Yes, let me also mention, since no one else has pointed it out, that it belongs in this account that from the Norwegian side we have also exported a significant number of health workers over 150 years, mainly through Norwegian mision. There is reason to hope that, in the future, we too will stress that Norwegian health workers should make an effort beyond Norway’s borders – that should be lacking. The last challenge: the demographic imbalance, which is currently a phenomenon in the rich world, but which is gradually emerging in the rest of the world, is the real challenge to political imagination. Is the only thing we can do about recording that the imbalance is there, or should it also be part of the political task to have a time horizon that extends beyond today, the day tomorrow, three years, five years ahead in time? That's the really big challenge. How can responsible politicians in individual societies develop policies to prevent dramatic demographic fluctuations and to ensure a better balance in individual societies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1377	The greatest challenge of our time is undoubtedly the enormous poverty and the great differences we have in the world. The United Nations and the world's states have, through the Millennium Goals, set themselves the goal of doing something about these problems, because we know that it's possible. The question is, do we grasp the possibility? I am proud that the Christian People's Party and my party leader have raised this debate today. I am also pleased that the Council of State has responded so positively. Norway spent the fifth year in a row to the world's best country to live in. According to Statistics Central Bureau, we used 9.2 pst in 2005. GDP, i.e. approx. NOK 176 billion for health care. No other country in the world spends so many public dollars per year. built-in on health services. The medicine in Norway is high, and infant mortality is low, one of the lowest in the world, with about one. 3.2 children under the age of one per year. 1 000 live births in 2005. With such a privileged starting point, we have a great moral responsibility to help developing countries that have very high infant mortality rates. A very important part of this is to strengthen healthcare coverage in developing countries. Therefore, the interpellation of the Christian People's Party addresses a major international challenge. We also want health challenges in Norway in the future, perhaps especially in the public health area. Our main priority should, however, be to have more equal health services between the countries of the Western world and the poor countries of the south, because it may be tempting for rich countries to use their superior purchasing power to drain the developing countries for health professionals in order to ensure themselves cheap access to the completed health workforce, but such an organised recruitment does not fit with my perception of ethics and closeness. We cannot allow solutions to our own challenges to make it harder for poor countries to solve their problems. The UN report ‘World Population Ageing 1950–2050’ concludes that the ageing of the world’s population is unhistorical. From 2000 to 2050, the proportion over 60 years of age in the population will exceed doubles from 10 pst. For approx. 21 pst. This will increase the demand for health professionals, not least in the rich countries. The challenge of the Christian People's Party in the interpellation will therefore become increasingly pressing to solve. Through a long-term and good prevention policy and a healthy lifestyle, we can improve the health of the population. It is in itself good for people, and it will also have the advantage that it will dampen the growth in the need for health and care professionals. For the Christian People's Party, the solution to the need for health and care professionals is to further increase the educational capacity of health and care professionals, and it must be done consciously and objectively. Furthermore, those who have been trained as a health professional must be motivated to work as such, for example. through good and stimulating professional environment and pay according to responsibilities and competences. It is a paradox that more than 10,000 nurses today work outside the health service. The Christian People's Party received multiples in its work on the care message to evaluate current practices when it comes to the possibility of working on a full-time basis and to assess whether work environment laws could be exacerbated further in this respect. If all health care professionals would work full-time, Norway would have had more than 10,000 more annual jobs. Among our own minorities, we can also bet on training more health and care workers. I look forward to the results of the Government's efforts to meet the challenges of strengthening health efforts in poor countries and to meeting their own health personnel challenges at home in an offensive, creative and targeted way. My important penance and my goal will always be that we do not have to come into a situation where poor countries pay the price of our wealth. Our goal must be development in the poorest countries in the world. We can do that, but then we must not lose those countries too important, even vital, labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1398	Let me thank my fellow representatives who have taken part in the debate for a broad and positive commitment. I think the debate has clarified that there is a broad consensus on some important things in this area. Most importantly, I think, is the clarification we have received from the Government that Norway should refrain from actively recruiting health professionals from poor countries with vulnerable health services. The confusion that was created about this before Easter is now set aside. Secondly, I think it is good that there is agreement that we need a global ethical code. It can take different forms. No one here has expressed itself categorically about what is the right form, but we want an initiative and an active role from the Norwegian side in that work. It is, as many have been in the past, which must be done across the departments of the Government. But I would be so free to suggest that the Council of State sits down with its colleagues in the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and discuss how to take this further, for example. towards the World Health Organisation’s global meeting in mid-May in Geneva. There is a nice arena to start processes relative to this. So I think it was the representative Nybakk who said we can do more. I agree with the heart. The Council's response in this debate creates a expectation that we will do more. What I would like to stress in particular is that Norway is placing more emphasis on the training of health professionals in developing countries. We're doing a lot of it. We can do more of that. I would also like to see if Norway is actually maintaining its share of Norwegian development cooperation, and would like to increase its share of Norwegian u-help. It will be the right way to go, and it will be a good follow-up to this debate. And last but not least, it is important, as several speakers have pointed out, that we are working hard enough to train health workers in our own country, so that the weak countries are not pressured to vacuum developing countries for health professionals. I think it was very nice to hear when I met the Director General of Gavi for a while ago, that the National Health Service, that is, the UK Health Service, has now decided not to actively recruit health workers from developing countries. They have been large customers of that type of employee. I think that kind of decisions can be made in many countries, as a result of the fact that this debate is being conducted even more intensively at international level.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1411	The representative Ropstad and several others have been concerned about how the new wave of old age is a driving force in what we're talking about here. I can tell you about an American -- to illustrate how new this is -- who had gone back in his family history and looked at his tippole father and tippole mother, I think it was, who had both died a little over 100 years ago in the United States. The cause of his grandfather’s death — he died at the age of 39 — was listed as ‘age’. His mother-in-law died at the age of 41, and the cause of death was listed as ‘generally exhausted’. There have been most people on the globe up to now, and in fact that is still true in a few countries. But the vast, large majority of humanity is in better health. We are thicker, higher, better educated and better fed than ever in human history, and life expectancy for average people on earth is getting closer to 70 years. What I am very pleased about in this debate is that it has not, as part of the previous debate, been characterized by very simple and diabolical solutions, but actually by the insight into the significant challenges we are facing. Let me give you some examples. Marit Nybakk points to the obvious problem that if we recruit from neighbouring countries in Norway – a lot of health professionals who have come to Norway, have not come far from, but from Germany, Poland or Lithuania – others may come in and fill the vacant positions there in an international chain reaction, where the poorest countries travel to the second poorest and from there up the chain. So, in other words, it does not solve our share of the problem if we are just going to take from other Schengen countries, because they might take from other countries again. Morten Höglund pointed to something very central, namely that Norway is very far from ‘some of the worst’ in this area. We are probably one of the best in the rich part of the world, in the sense that Norway has no tradition of targeted recruitment of the most skilled labour force from poor countries. It has a number of other countries. After all, they are demanding refugee reception in order to get the best educated, the most able to contribute in their country. Morten Höglund also pointed to the very central point, namely that the pressure from a Norwegian ageing population, where more suffering can be cured, will be strong, completely independent of government unless we are able to train enough health professionals in Norway. The representatives of Vallersnes and Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen pointed to everything we have to do to train enough people at home to organise the health care system effectively, but of course also to ensure that the many qualified and able to work can enter skilled jobs in the labour market. We have to attack this from a lot of these angles at the same time. I also believe, as Vallersnes said, that it is possible in some areas to imagine developing win-win situations, where both poor countries serve and we also serve to the seventh and last, not only by the world getting better, but by the fact that we can get labour for ourselves. But that is something that obviously needs to develop with other countries. Finally, two main solutions have been launched here. One is an ethical code and framework. I will continue to work on it after the proposals that have come from Dagfinn Højbräten. The second is a drastically increased proportion of people trained for health in the world. At the end, the last thing is the most important thing, because if the workforce is small, and there is a hard fight about it, the world is still so connected that the strongest will win that battle. If we were to flood the world with skilled labour, we would all be able to win in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1426	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1440	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1449	Today, the Storting deals with a position from the Business Committee, Innst. S. No 161 for 2006-2007, which is a proposal by the representatives of the local authorities André N. Skkelstad, Gunnar Kvassheim and Gunvald Ludvigsen for a review of the legislation on compensation for municipalities that are disproportionately badly affected by flooding, race and natural damage. The proposers have argued that today’s legislation on compensation for natural damage is complex, economically unfair and lowly user-friendly. The proposers also point to the fact that the municipalities do not currently have the opportunity to finance their own debt related to the remediation of natural damage, but have to take this over the current operation, and that for many small municipalities, this makes a significant contribution to the municipal economy. A large majority of the business committee, consisting of government parties and the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, agree with the starting point of the proposers that climate change can have a major impact on society, in terms of floods, race and natural damage. The UN’s wide-ranging climate panel has convincingly argued that climate change is man-made. Despite a number of frightening events, I'm afraid that we've only seen the beginning of the consequences of these climate change. Therefore, it is good to record that an ever-increasing political consensus now comes up about this reality. We know that many people already live in coastal areas. Proposals have raised a very important issue, and they shall have the honour to do so. Norway's watercourse and energy directorate, Norway's Geotechnical Institute and Norway's geological studies have cooperated in a project, and they have identified more than 300 areas in our country that are at high risk of clay scaffolding. Both older and more recent history shows the seriousness of this situation. We know that with increasing climate change, this number can increase. We therefore need to work to bring together the efforts, which are now being made in several departments, in order to achieve a good and coordinated racial policy. It is therefore gratifying to say that this coordination is well under way by the Government. So I have noticed that the Progress Party has proposed that flood prevention and remediation after flood should be 100 pst. State-funded. This may seem to be a valid point of view, and both the Centre Party and the SV have previously supported this. But when the proposal now comes from a party that has not found reason to add one more penny for the same purpose in its 2007 alternative budget, I almost don't know if we can take this play seriously. The parties are free to submit any proposals they may wish. Nevertheless, I would like to commend the Progress Party as a good reminder that there should be coherence between proposals promoted in the prose and the corresponding figures in budgets. The government has already taken good care of the issues asked by the proposers. During the current year, provision is to be made for grants to cover damage to the natural environment of the country, where the local government's excess will be altered from 25 p.m. until 20 pst. In addition, there will be a provision that in exceptional cases the grant rate may exceed 80 pst. Furthermore, the State's agricultural management has been entrusted with a broad review of the State's natural damage regime, including grants for protection against natural damage, with the deadline of 15 November 2007. These parties also have in St. Prp. No 1 for 2005-2006 referred to the review of the District Share Scheme of Security Measures, for which the Ministry of Oil and Energy is responsible, at the request of the Stortinget. The Ministry then concluded that the applicable rules should be maintained. The size confirmed it in the examination of the budget proposal. A majority of the members of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party therefore propose that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol, which is also the Committee's suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1472	This is the third time in four years the Stortinget deals with a matter of compensation for municipalities affected by major flood damage. This in itself, regardless of the bulk of the population, should be a strong signal to the Government and the government that today's system is mature for a significant change, not only because today's system imposes large additional costs on many municipalities, but because the responsibility for today's system is largely fragmented. Our country's geographical position and topography mean that natural damage caused by race and flood is something that we might have to expect. But we can't expect individual municipalities to plan financially for their municipality to be hit by this. Therefore, any such event will be inappropriate for the municipalities, and exceptional expenditure in retrospect will have to be borne by the ordinary operating budget, which will affect other services provided by the municipality. For the Progress Party it is unreasonable that flood-prone municipalities should risk having to cut off their services because of the damage to a phenomenon they cannot control, namely the weather. It is therefore gratifying that the proposers once again give us an opportunity to underline the position of the Progress Party in such matters. But although I am happy about the occasion, it is with a little wonder that I record that the proposers are not willing to give clearer guidance on what they want to achieve. The proposal of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left in this position is essentially not asking the Government to do anything other than what you did the last time you dealt with the matter, when the same parties were part of the government. The result of that decision is now the result of major protests from the Nord-Trøndelag, which is the area that last experienced a large flood. It probably didn't help much that the inhabitants of the flooded areas were given the impression that these extra costs that the flood meant would be covered by the state. At the hearing in the committee and via newspaper headlines in the region, we have been told that two state councils on tour in the area have left the impression that the municipalities that were hit were free to pay the bill. I am not a witness of the truth of what was said or one during these visits by the state councils Haga and Enoxen in the North Tronde Team, but from the position of the Center Party the last two times the Stortinget dealt with this kind of proposal, it would not be surprising if the state councils thought that the state should take the bill to clean up after the flood. When Stortinget last dealt with such a proposal, the Central Party and the Socialist Left, together with the Progress Party, stood in the form of proposals to the effect that this kind of extrapolation was to be paid by the State. It is therefore with great wonder that I register the Senterpartiet and SV's position on the matter today. It is now clear to everyone that only the Progress Party is fighting for a fair and predictable policy in this area. I refer to the two proposals of the Progress Party in this setting. We believe that this type of unforeseeable expenditure that cannot be planned should be the responsibility of the big society. We do not want the consequences of extreme violence to cause people to lose their services when we have a state fund that runs out of money. At the same time, we do not agree that there should be a discretionary assessment whether the State should take the entire bill for this type of damage or not. We can afford to try to secure the lives, health and property of the inhabitants against damage from the forces of nature. We can afford to repair damage after flooding instead of torturing the crowns out of leaky municipal boxes. For the state, this is a small amount of money, but for each municipality it can lead to major interference in the service provision. This has been the position of the Progress Party all along, and we therefore propose that municipalities that have previously had flood costs – yes, back to 2003 – be reimbursed for their expenses. We're not talking about big expenses for the state. In the case of the last in the Nord-Trøndelag, the district share does not constitute more than half of what has been set aside to decorate the new opera in Bjørvika. Therefore, it is with regret that I see that the Progress Party is alone to place a clear responsibility now. I also record that the Senterpartiet and SV fail many small municipalities with their new position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1493	The representative Kåre Fostervold has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1496	I would like to congratulate the proposers behind this proposal. This is a matter I think it is very important that we get on with it. Today's legislation is perceived by many as unfair. It's very complicated. When we also know that there are up to three departments involved, it is time to get a clearer overview of the issues. And then we also have the slightly more extreme results that can come in a very special case, where, in the opinion of the Right and in the opinion of the proposers, the state must take a greater responsibility. The injustice that lies in this comes, among other things. as expressed by the fact that many municipalities can show that there is a great deal of discrimination in today's system. Therefore, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will present a proposal that is both a review and a simplification, and also that the State assumes greater responsibility in a special case. I would like to address the proposal that is in the configuration from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1505	The representative Petter Løvik has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1508	The need to focus on this issue comes not least from the heavy pressures that several communities in the North-Trundelag have received after the thousand-year flood in January/February 2006. Human lives were lost, and there were material damage for hundreds of millions of dollars. The case also concerns municipalities that quickly took responsibility for repairing the damage, in confidence that the State would cover the actual costs. It was well so that in time just after these disasters there was also good reason to believe it. Then development was not as many expected. Now we take note that the government has intentions to revise the damage regulation, with a certain reduction in the ownership of the municipalities. There is a partial response to the reactions that have come. from Nord-Trøndelag. But the matter is also about the municipalities' freedom to be able to finance the property as they wish. The nature of the expenditure is such that municipalities themselves should be able to choose whether to finance them by means of a loan chapter or by way of operation. Fortunately, thousands of years of floods and other major natural damage are not so frequent. But at this last point, the majority are less responsive. It seems strange from a government that, after what they say, world-wide local freedom of action. Against this background, and in order to get a little progress and focus on this, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right and Left, is behind the proposal, asking the Government to review and simplify the legislation on compensation for flooding, race and natural damage with a view to increasing non-discrimination and that the State assume a greater financial responsibility when the municipalities become unreasonably hard.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1519	The starting point for the matter we are now discussing and dealing with is, as several have mentioned, the flood that hit mainly the Nord-Trøndelag, but also the South-Trøndelag, at the beginning of 2006. It hit both individuals and the public sector, municipalities and state by hitting roads and public property. First of all, this is a tragedy for the individuals and families who were affected, and there are many who have had great challenges in building up their homes and properties after the flood, and who are still doing it. What is the issue, and which is complicated in this matter, is that we have a legislation on compensation payments – a legislation that is being dealt with by different departments. I think we have to realize that responsibility is allocated to different departments, creates problems, in the sense that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs treats one type of compensation, the Ministry of Oil and Energy another type of compensation – and there is also a responsibility at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. This can, in a sense, if it is not well coordinated, help to powder responsibility. The problems for municipalities are becoming extra big when it turns out that they have to pay prostheses – the excesses adopted in Stortinget, and as most of the parties here, I believe, have agreed at the time of dealing with the case – and when the prostheses are doubled. There are municipalities in my home country that have paid one instalment in connection with compensation from the Ministry of Local Affairs, provided by the County Council, where they had a discretionary assessment of the costs of the municipalities, and another part of the district in connection with flood prevention. In the case of flood prevention, the municipalities have previously paid indebtedness, so they have to re-pay indebtedness. There is a problem that needs to be worked on further, and which I assume the Government is assessing in the context of the follow-up to this case. As indicated in the case-law – and the Committee’s comments – the Government warns that it will, during the current year, lay down rules on subsidies for the protection of natural damage against the State’s natural damage regime. This indicates that the excess will be changed from 25 to 20 pst, and in special cases one can go beyond that. In addition, the State's agricultural management must also review the natural damage regime and have a deadline for the harvest this year, 15 November, in order to make proposals. In St. pp. No 1 for 2005-2006 from the Ministry of Oil and Energy, as I mentioned earlier, has also been reviewed by the Regional Share Scheme. So there has been a comprehensive treatment of such cases in the past. Of course, it creates a challenge in relation to the mix of compensation schemes. In fact, we need to deal with a regulatory framework that the Stortinget has established in the past, while at the same time this flood was so large that it challenged the entire regulatory system – and not least the mix between the different departments. When I support the setting, it's because here we say we're going to go through these arrangements, we're going to go through the work on the race and pace problem in a wider context than exactly what's going on in this case. Then I assume that we also have to look at the proportion systems as they work. In particular, I think it is important that municipalities affected by floods, which have previously paid a district share for flood prevention, should not risk being affected by this time after time – after such major natural disasters as we have seen. With this, I would just like to stress that the review of this matter was necessary. I expect the government to go through this and come back with proposals both in general in relation to racial and flood prevention and in relation to the compensation scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1545	Many of us have experienced how small we human beings become when uncontrollable forces of nature insert. History tells us about many tragic situations that have affected individuals, families and entire communities. In our country, with a relatively demanding topography, changing temperature conditions and severe weather conditions, it will have to be assumed that new natural disasters will occur in the future as well. Not only individuals, but also municipalities will in many cases face too many tasks to solve themselves. It is obvious that the big community – here the state – must take overall responsibility in such cases. Climate change could both increase the number and reinforce the effects of natural disasters. In such a situation, the Left believes that the State must take greater responsibility for prevention, procedures and intervention when accidents occur and, last but not least, also greater financial responsibility. The Left therefore believes that the whole system – legislation, preparedness and financial responsibility – needs to be thoroughly reviewed in the light of improvements. There are expected more floods, races, flashes of masses and more powerful storms in the years to come. Today's legislation is a little user-friendly. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs allocates an annual framework grant to the municipalities at their discretion. In the case of exceptional additional expenditure and damage, the Ministry may also be directly applied for. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food manages funds for security measures and hazard assessment of the State Natural Injury Fund. Here you can apply for a cover of up to 75 pst. I am aware that the legislation is under review. Finally, the Ministry of Oil and Energy also manages funds through the NVE. These funds are used for security measures and monitoring and may cover up to 80 pst. of the costs. Another factor is that municipalities cannot finance the proportion of equity through loans but must take it over the operating budget. Especially in small municipalities, this can have major consequences for day-to-day operations, at worst with the removal of job homes. In a country with 4.5 million inhabitants, this must be added to one department, so that municipalities affected have one door to deal with, not three and possibly four. The message and recommendation of the left is that today's legislation is being reviewed with a view to increasing non-discrimination, simplification and greater State financial responsibility when municipalities are hit hard. I note that several of the speakers have made the same point, but still will not be in favour of a proposal that clearly states that we need to provide a thorough review in the departments with a view to simplification and coordination. I noticed that the representative Breck said he expected this to be done. I'm very happy about that. That is essentially what our proposal, which the same representative will not support, is all about. But otherwise I fully agree with the contents of his article. I am aware that there is now an improvement in the legislation in some departments, but in this case it should be coordinated, so that there is a common regulatory framework and one door to approach when disasters occur. That is why the proposal that comes from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, is the right one here. I have noticed that the Advance Party will go more straight on the matter and say that we do it like this and so on. We must admit that the matter is more complex than that we can take a procedure almost above the table. Departments need time to review this so that it can be coordinated. My strong call is for the legislation to be reviewed and for a significant simplification. It should not be necessary to deal with three departments in order to assist in the event of a disaster.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1574	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1577	It was with some wonder that I saw that the position parties no longer went and supported the proposal of the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right. During the Great Flood in Trøndelag, state councils Haga and Enoxen visited the most flooded areas. Through various meetings and a series of newspaper headlines about this, the high expectations of both regional and local communities were raised. Two counties were hit. That these expectations were met is well to draw it very far. They definitely didn't. I'm not going to say as a elected representative said to me on one of my visits to the most flooded areas when the replacement became known: Had the Council of State, Enoxen was just as willing to pay compensation as at the helicopter costs he had during the inspection, there would have been no problem. I don't think it's as simple as that, but you should be a little aware of what signals you give on such visits. During the ordinary Question Time on 11 October and 25 October last year, I addressed the issue of floods and natural damage. I came, among others. address the problem of cutbacks in the provision of services, which have increased in number today, in my question to the Council of State, Enoxen, on 11 October 2006. State Council Enoxsen replied as follows: ‘In the case of a amortisation agreement, I will of course take a positive view of it if it can help the situation in Grong.’ This was not enough, of course, but I saw it as a positive invitation to him to consider it on a general basis, not just for Grong, in view of a down payment situation with possible borrowings, so that the municipalities could be relieved of how they would cover the damage. Unfortunately, this is not mentioned from the position in the presentation that lies ahead of us today either. The position indicates that the Government started work on racial and step issues, but they say nothing about simplifications and the current legislation of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Oil and Energy, which had clearly been possible to add one department. It is, in my view, a necessity. When a flood or other natural damage requires that the municipality in question has to leave with several fractions for the same damage, this becomes too bureaucratic. You can have a certain hope that the government's work on racial and step problems will get a greater progress, so you can get a simpler regulation under one department.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1597	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 2616]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1617	The apothecary is an important part of the health care system and the health services under discussion. They reach a lot of people. Last year they carried out 41 million customer expeditions. Apotekens have 6,000 employees who are free health workers for society and who are in close contact with the public. We have 581 pharmacies in Norway. That is, we have one pharmacy per year. approx. 8 000 inhabitants. It's an improvement of almost 50 pst. Since the pharmacies reform in 2001. This improvement has been achieved in areas such as South-Trøndelag, East-Agder, Troms, Akershus, Østfold, etc. – they have the best numbers – i.e. across the country. So it's not a one-sided image, for example. is in the central sense that the coverage has improved. I want to address three issues related to the development of pharmacies as part of our healthcare system. The first concerns the availability of healthcare. The second concerns the quality of pharmacies services. And the third is about price. On the first, the availability of pharmacies’ healthcare, we in Norway have a major challenge in detecting diseases early, before people get too serious health problems. There are many who don't have that much resources, who don't know how to find out in the health care system – how to investigate, if they're wondering. It would be a great advantage if the pharmacies could contribute more here, because so many of us are still in there. Then I think of widespread public diseases like diabetes. It is estimated that 130 000–150 000 people in Norway today have precursors, beginning diabetes, which has not been detected today, and it would be of great help to them if it could be detected early. Then I think that we could have a more widespread system of offering blood sugar measurement in the pharmacies, so that, when there are signs of danger, you could quickly refer these people to the doctor and show them the way in the system, and in the next round follow up on medication, etc. The same is true of the widespread problem of cols, which applies to about half of the population. 200,000 people that we know about today, and there will also be many undetected cases. It's about asthma. We could use spirometrics in the pharmacies to give people a first check considering whether they can have access to COPD or asthma problems, and then show them in the medical system, just like in the case of diabetes. The same can be said of cholesterol and the follow-up of those with high blood cholesterol levels. It can be said about abortion prevention. We know that pharmacies are already doing a job today in the field of drug-assisted rehabilitation of drug users, but this can be done to a much greater extent. And they do a job when it comes to quit smoking, make people stop smoking, which can also be done on a much larger scale. So I think it's a great potential that pharmacies, as well developed as they are now, can play an even bigger and even more positive role in our healthcare. In terms of availability, I would also like to point out a different issue: of course, it happens to everyone that you may need pharmacies at times when pharmacies are closed – at night, on weekends, on holidays, etc. In many parts of the country, night - opening pharmacies are not sufficient. Here in the Oslo and Akershus area, there is only one pharmacies – the Railway Square – where there are large cows and too long waiting time when it is urgent to obtain medicines at night, and a very long journey. So a question to the government council is whether we can do more to get more nightly pharmacies, and how to realize it in an interaction with the chains. I believe that there should at all have been a project together with the pharmacy on these questions I have now had, which concerns the availability of healthcare. Creating lowthreshold services in the areas of diabetes, COPD, cholesterol, asthma, abortion prevention, LAR, smoking cessation – and perhaps a few more fields. The second main theme I want to address is the quality of healthcare through pharmacies. They have started a project called a drug call, which is a drug review with patients. Perhaps too many types of medicines are being used. It can be cross-referenced with prescriptions and references. The implementation of such drug calls shows that there is a high potential both for helping individuals to improve their drug use and for society to save resources. In Denmark, it is estimated that about a quarter of the population will be saved. 300 million. kr for this type of medical call. In Skåne, Sweden, where they have had a project for this, they have estimated that they have saved 17 pst. But the important thing is that patients should use the right medicine. There is now a trial here in Norway, with about 150 such drug calls. I think this should be carried out on a much larger scale. A new challenge now with regard to the quality of pharmacies is what are called tailor-made drugs. I think it's going to go more and more in the direction that you need a high level of pharmacies competence. We need more good pharmaceuticals that can help the more tailor-made drugs become for the individual – because we're going to get a development through the new medical research and the medical world, where not only do you make drugs that are going to hit everyone, but it's good to tailor them to the individual's composition, etc. It will require a quality upgrade of the pharmacies in the coming years. We also know that the pharmacies detect many poor prescriptions and thus contribute to the quality of the healthcare system. It's estimated that of all the prescriptions they're treating -- I think it's 27 million, that's at least a very high number -- up to half a million of these are missing. I think it is important that this is discovered. It is also important that pharmacies have an independent reporting obligation to look at and follow up suspicious prescribing practices; there may be irregularities in prescribing medicines. It is also important that, through the use of medicinal products and other attention, it is possible to determine the misuse of medicinal products. It is estimated that up to 20 pst. the course of treatment in Norway may be plagued by the fact that the use of medicinal products is not exactly as it should be. I think there is a great need to develop the quality of pharmacies by strengthening cooperation on drug calls, tailor-made drugs, poor prescriptions and suspicious prescription practices. I also believe that when it comes to issues relating to marketing outside pharmacies, availability is now so good that the most important thing is to strengthen the professional competence of pharmacies around these questions I have had, and to ensure that pharmacies can develop their professional competence even more rather than move towards widespread marketing outside pharmacies, where the follow-up of patients can be seriously weakened and the responsible use of medicinal products weakened. The last question, on which I will come briefly, concerns price formation at the pharmacies. It is clear that when 2/3 of the revenue from turnover is covered by the BIP, there is a risk that there is too little attention to price competition/price formation. Lower prices were one of the objectives of the 2001 reform, but there is not the same in objectives as in terms of availability and quality work – the other things I have had. If you look at e.g. 10 of the most widely used drugs on patents, we are relatively low in price compared to the rest of the Nordic region and in relation to Europe. However, there is no evidence that there is competition between pharmacies in Norway to keep prices low. We look at the issue of the index price system that was suspended a few years ago, but which showed problems, and we see in the context of what is now called grey-zone preparations, where copies are provided instead of the preparations that have been agreed with the authorities, that there are problems in dealing with how the three large chains of pharmacies are owned by wholesalers, so that one has access to an oligopol instead of a monopoly, as it was in the past. So I would also ask the Minister to comment on the issues of how we can better follow up price formation, ensure real price competition and tidy conditions in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1649	The apothecary, as the interpellant has pointed out, is an important part of Norwegian healthcare, both as a specialist trade for medicinal products and as the arena for the dissemination of pharmaceutical competence. The pharmacists shall ensure the proper supply of medicinal products to the end-user and shall contribute to the proper use of medicinal products through guidance and pharmaceutical services to the population. According to the law we have, pharmacies are obliged to negotiate all medicinal products that are allowed to be sold in Norway, as well as standard medical devices. Furthermore, the Pharmacy Act obliges customers to be instructed about the proper use of medicinal products. The staff must provide the customer with all necessary information for safe use, answers to questions and, if necessary, also show how the medicinal product is to be used. This obligation is one of the main reasons why pharmacies initially have a monopoly on the placing on the market of medicinal products for consumers. Therefore, such information activity shall be covered in the ordinary course of pharmacies. The provision of services in addition to this is known initially as voluntary for pharmacies. Many pharmacies offer extra professional follow-up to some patient groups, e.g. astmap Asians, patients with cardiovascular and diabetic conditions. For some medicinal products, e.g. Inhalation medicinal products require training and systematic follow-up to master the technique. Diabetic plaques are offered in several places for follow-up of blood sugar measurements, testing of equipment and advice on treatment. There are separate diabetes managers in several pharmacies. In addition, preventive health work is included in pharmacies’ offerings. They provide advice on self-care with dietary recommendations, slimming and smoking cessation, to mention some examples. Some pharmacies offer lowthreshold services such as measurement of blood pressure and blood sugar. The pharmacist may make the measurement seaworthy or be assisted by the pharmacist. If abnormal values are detected, the patient is asked to contact his/her doctor and the prescriber, who has the primary responsibility to follow up patients outside the specialist healthcare system, cooperates with other healthcare professionals where necessary. Low-threshold pharmacies services may be considered as a subsidy to the activities of prescribers. But such services may also raise some fundamental and practical questions. A possible issue may be whether such healthcare leads to increased sales of some medicinal products and other pharmaceutical products. Another issue is whether pharmacists have the competence to interpret probationary responses in all situations and give proper advice to the patient. The legislation limits the products and services that a pharmacy is allowed to offer. I will continue to assess whether there is a need for detailed guidance to ensure that pharmacies do not develop too far towards ‘land trade’ or towards becoming a kind of health centre. Apothecants shall use their competences in a way that contributes to the best possible health in the population. That's why it's important that the topping skills of the pharmacists are exploited. In particular, it applies to patients receiving complex and complex medicinal products. In order to maximise the use of medicinal products, maritime knowledge of disease and medicinal products is required, both in users and in several groups of personnel. Last year, the Directorate-General for Social Affairs and Health was commissioned to set up projects in which qualified health professionals are to review the overall use of medicinal products among particularly vulnerable patient groups. Pharmacy is one of several possible arenas for such health care. Drug reviews in pharmacies are a low-threshold offer for patients wishing to review their drug use. This is done as an individual conversation between the patient and the pharmacist and is more thorough than can be expected in the case of normal application procedures. The pharmacy association is now in the final phase of a project with drug calls in pharmacies. The project has been co-financed by the Directorate for Social and Health. The pharmacy association shall present the results of the project on the date of the medicinal product in May now. The experience of the project will be crucial for the organisation of this work in the future. As you know, the new Pharmacy Act entered into force on 1 March 2001. It opened up a freer regulation of the establishment and ownership of pharmacies. The law was evaluated in 2004, and the conclusion was that the objectives of increased availability, increased service and more efficient pharmacies were achieved. Since 1 January 2001, more than 170 new pharmacies have been established in Norway. New pharmacies are mainly established in densely populated areas, but district municipalities have also received part of this. The evaluation also showed that the waiting time for pharmacies has decreased and that customer service has increased. Based on the experience gained since 2001, the State Medicines Agency has been entrusted with the task of reviewing pharmaceutical legislation in the light of adjustments and changes. All stakeholders concerned have been given the opportunity to take part in this process both before and after the submission of amendments to the consultation. The Ministry will receive the Agency’s assessments and recommendations during this year. Then we propose to carry out a general consultation process. The Swedish Medicines Agency was also commissioned to assess the operating aid schemes for pharmacies and pharmacies. They conclude that the pharmacy coverage is good. A customer-friendly feature is that very many pharmacies have also introduced longer opening times. Pharmacy located in the malls usually follows the opening hours of the centres and stays open until noon in many places. 21 on weekdays and until 9 p.m. 18 on Saturdays. As you know, society provides financial support for operational support and security. Operating aid is granted to pharmacies in locations where there is not a sufficient customer base for sound financial operations, but where it is nevertheless important to maintain pharmacies. Support for the pharmacist shall ensure extended opening times where necessary. The use of public funds to secure pharmacies in the districts and pharmacies should be seen in the context of how we prioritise health care funds. The acute need for medicinal products is usually met through the provision of medical services. Of course, the supply of medical products varies depending on the availability of other medicinal products. In District Norway, it is often the case that doctors and medical professionals have a wider range of medicines that meet the need for rapid initiation of treatment. But here I'm open to evaluating changes when we get the process going. If it appears that the need for a pharmacist has increased, the Agency shall have the necessary powers to prescribe a pharmacist. It is a challenge to find the right level of pharmacopoeia required. In Oslo, there are now two pharmacies that keep open on Sundays, without having to be a pharmacist. Since November 2003, a limited range of prescription-free medicinal products at outlets other than pharmacies has been opened for sale, e.g. in grocery stores and in service stations. The scheme was established as known because non-prescription medicinal products are considered safe to use if they are to be used as such. The scheme includes medicinal products that are often required outside the usual opening hours of pharmacies. Many of the outlets in this scheme are open 24 hours a day. As is known, the 18-year limit for the purchase of medicinal products at these new outlets has been introduced. Furthermore, the provision of medical advice is prohibited in order to avoid misguided advice from non-qualified shopkeepers. However, if customers need advice, they shall be provided by prescribers and pharmacists. The State Medicines Agency has evaluated the system of sales of non-pharmacy medicinal products. This evaluation shows that there has been no significant increase in the consumption of prescription-free medicinal products. The Medical Products Agency has also not observed increased misuse, although availability has improved. What we see is that the purchase of medicines over the Internet is increasing in scope and creating a certain amount of concern. As a result of the EEA Agreement, Norway has accepted that citizens may receive medicinal products from the EEA territory. The purchase of medicinal products via the Internet from non-EEA countries is not allowed. The Ministry has been asked about the access of individuals to the purchase of medicinal products by means of shipments from EEA countries. This report shows that the scope of such trade is limited. The report on proposals for action has recently been consulted, and I will follow up on its recommendations to limit any adverse health effects. Today, we have good knowledge of the role and functioning of pharmacies through various studies and evaluations. After my assessment, this knowledge provides a basis for saying that the situation in the pharmacy is good. But I keep following the situation. We will assess new opportunities and measures to ensure that medicinal products and pharmaceutical services are available to the entire population and that pharmacies can play their role in healthcare in a good way. It also means that, in the processes currently in progress, we will assess some of the measures taken by the representative of Bohemia in this interview.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1687	Thank you to the Council of State for a full and good answer, which brought up many things. I just want to focus on a couple of questions now in the first place. This concerns the organisation in relation to wholesalers and the three major pharmacies chains. The whole of the Stortinget was in favour of both 2001 and 2005, and it was intended that heavy power should be exerted in relation to the pharmaceutical industry on the other hand, and strong pharmacies that could negotiate on price, quality, etc. If the model of ownership through the wholesalers turns out to be the way we saw it in the index price system, where it seemed as if instead of using that power to the pharmaceutical manufacturers, they cooperated with them to go shortcut to the authorities, it becomes problematic. The same is true in relation to what we have now seen in a report from the Norwegian School of Commerce in the case of grey-zone medicinal products, that copies have been provided instead of the medicines provided for in the agreements. So it's very important now that we focus on how this cross-ownership works, and on how we, through regulatory measures, can ensure that we have real price competition, open relationships, avoiding detours and things that could lead to abuse of the system. I would also like to say that it is important to get a good overview of the profits, the benefits to the pharmacies chains. Issues to implement, e.g.: Drug discussions, on which the Council of State was involved – here is a pilot project at the pharmacies that I believe should be much larger – and perhaps also diabetes studies, COLS studies, etc., should be seen in the context of the avancise, profit, pharmacies chains. It should be possible to conclude agreements where it was not only about new public expenditure, but also about the provision of services that are proportionate to the margins and profits of pharmacies. I hope that there can be more pressure on the low-threshold section of pharmacies, and that the positive experience of the Council of State can be used to raise it to a new level in terms of scope.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1696	I can confirm that, on the part of the Government, we are prepared to use the pharmacies in relation to the role they have in health care, and also, if necessary, to adapt them even more to the reality of the day in relation to something that the representative of Bohemia has been involved in. We have processes going on here. We're going to have hearings, and we're going to get back to Stortinget with it in a real way. I also agree with the representative that there are several areas within so-called low-threshold services where it is possible that pharmacies can do something more, only we find a proper framework for it. As regards the question of yields in pharmacies, it is correct that the pharmacies have had significant profits. But from 1 January this year, prices of generic medicines – and thus the profits of pharmacies – have been significantly reduced. However, there is no contradiction between being able to look at any of the things that the interpellant had to say about, in order to further improve the offer. I share the interpellant's view that we have recently discovered a number of things that there is reason to go further into, and that will be further explored. It is clear that it is in everyone's interest that we are sure that there is real price competition, that it is a proper system and that it is proper control. This also applies to the issue of grey-zone preparations. I will listen with interest also in this debate and take with me the input that is coming, in the process that we are now running.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1707	I've been trying to follow the medicine field here at Stortinget for the last ten years, and I've been the case rapporteur for the medicine chapter for most of these years in the committee. Furthermore, I was also the case rapporteur for the pharmacy law that is being discussed here, which was put into effect from 1 March 2001. I think we're going to assume that most of the things that were founded at the time in connection with the Pharmacy Act are actually fulfilled. And of course, you can assume that, especially in the price field, you probably haven't met the expectations or wishes you had, but that very piece wasn't what was put the most emphasis on in the pharmacy law. It went into the first row on quality. It was about prevalence, about raising the number of pharmacies also in the districts and on the quality that was there. I have to say that the recordings of the representative Bohemian are in many ways very interesting. The question is, how can we integrate the pharmacies and the device that is actually there in an even better way than today? Because it's a big device. There are very many good professionals who have great competence in this area. Then the question is, how can we exploit the potential that is there, for the benefit of patients and for the health care in general? I think there's a lot to do here. I think we can go one way to get a better use. The first is that you should sit down in the same room and discuss this, not only between the authorities and the pharmacies, but you should also bring with you the Medical Association and others to see exactly what types of services it is natural that pharmacies should be able to offer in the future. Competence with medicinal products is not necessarily the same as with medical competence. And you're also going to have to take that over. But it's quite obvious that there are things that can be done. It may be to take extended blood tests, which have been mentioned. There may be spirometry studies to detect both asthma and COPD. There could be a number of things, such as: blood pressure measurements. I think maybe we can use the pharmacies even more than we do today, for example. to offer the individual a review of their medicines to see it in context, because I think there is also a significant over-medication, not just under-medication, in the population. I also think a lot of people have a lot of questions about what's related to medicine. I think it's important that we take it over us. Furthermore, it is also important that we take developments in the international market into account. We see that there are some medicines traded over the Internet. I think at least that the trick we can do to get a greater control on this market is to open up to get Norwegian actors, perhaps among the already established pharmacies, to go in and look at this, on how we can do it in Norway. The most important thing is to have control in this area, make sure that Norwegian patients, those who need drugs, really have the assurance that what's on the packaging is what you get. I also believe, like the representative, Mr Bøhler, who was in the future, that what has to do with designer drugs, medicine adapted to the individual, is most likely to lead us to the situation that was on the competence side for some years ago, where some medicines were produced in the local pharmacies to adapt them to the individual's needs. I think we have great challenges, but we have difficult opportunities, because we have a large apparatus with a high level of competence, and we should take advantage of that in a much better way. Just to make a recording that's surprised me, and that still surprises me that we haven't been able to do anything special about it. This is because it is on multidose packs for patients, residents and others. Why in the world have we not been able to increase the use of multidose packaging in this country, which will obviously benefit patients? But what's important is that we take on board ourselves is that pharmacies actually depend on having a good economy, because we've assigned them a number of tasks related to having drugs in place, and they have tasks related to counselling and knowledge. They must have many professionals present. Then it is important that we ensure this also through the economic reality of the pharmacies. They should be able to have a good economy and a liberal everyday life, because it is for the benefit of patients as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1722	I want to pay tribute to the interpellan Boehler to put the search light on the role of pharmacies in health care. Apotenes have an important role to play in ensuring the proper distribution of medicinal products to patients. The evaluation of the new Pharmacy Act, which came into force in 2001, has shown that pharmacies have become more accessible and more efficient, while customers feel that the service has improved. As the representative of Bohemia points out, further consideration should be given to the ability of pharmacies to carry out more tasks by way of trade than at present. That was also the background for the cooperation administration in St.meld. No 18 for 2004–2005 to explore the possibility of extension of pharmacies’ activities. Among other things, proposed to assess the role of pharmacies in the review of the drug use of particularly vulnerable patients. On the right, the Government is looking forward to following up these measures — as was the case with the Council of State — and is briefing the Storting on those assessments in an appropriate way. From the right side, we can also join the representative of Bohemia in pointing out that many patients today have too poor access to pharmacies services, especially outside normal opening hours. It was exciting what Boehler brought, that there may be a need to extend the opening hours, especially in the big cities. However, we disagree with Mr Bøhler that the sale of prescription-free medicines outside pharmacies is problematic in this way. This mechanism was put in place by the Co-operation Board in order to ensure better access for patients to prescription-free medicinal products. An evaluation by the Agency published in December 2006 shows that the scheme has been a success. A lot more sales were created than expected, actually a whole of 5,632 sales per. 20 June 2006. Sales show good geographical spread, which means that they particularly benefit the rural population. Patients have also been given the opportunity to purchase prescription-free medicines at a lower price, because the retail trade has 10-20 pst. lower price of the brand than the pharmacies. The scheme has had a positive impact on price developments in the form of lower price weights for competitive medicinal products. Furthermore, the evaluation shows that there has been no significant increase in the consumption of prescription-free medicinal products and no evidence of increased misuse of the medicinal products concerned. The scheme has also not weakened the pharmaceutical coverage. Therefore, on the right, we support the Agency’s recommendation that the system of sales of non-prescription medicinal products should be extended to include several medicinal products, for example: antiallergy medicines. Many discovered enough during the last hot weekend that the blackpool jumped out too full, because we got some unusually warm spring days. In such cases, it would be beneficial for patients to have non-prescription allergens readily available at the store or at the service station. This is particularly true of those living in the districts. I would challenge the Council of State to comment on how she assesses the Agency's recommendation here, and whether she will follow up the proposal to extend the scheme. Although the evaluation of the pharmacy law as mentioned showed a positive development in availability and efficiency, it is clear that the new pharmaceutical structure poses challenges related to the need for effective competition in the pharmaceutical market. The vertical integration of wholesalers and pharmacists may weaken desired competition which could have contributed to lower prices of medicinal products for patients and for society. In this single communication on medicinal policy, the Co-operation Board indicated that it wanted to assess the impact of the measures taken, including: the step-by-step pricing model, before considering other market regulation measures. However, from the Right, we believe that if the desired effect does not exist, it is necessary to look at the need for changes in access to vertical integration. This scheme is, moreover, a strange phenomenon. I would like to ask the Council of State to comment on this assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1737	I think the representative, Mr Bøhler, is raising an interesting debate, probably among others. in the light of the visit of the Health and Care Committee to the Pharmacy Association earlier this year. Apothenics are, as the Council of State has pointed out, an important part of Norwegian healthcare. They shall be specialised in medicinal products and shall disseminate pharmaceutical competence, ensure the safe supply of medicinal products and contribute to the proper use of medicinal products. The Pharmacy Act provides an obligation to advise customers on the proper use of medicinal products and staff must provide the customer with all necessary information for safe use, answer questions and, if necessary, show how a medicinal product is used. It is therefore important that employees reflect on the inhabitants of the area when guiding customers. Language skills are e.g. an important qualification in many areas of the country. These are all key and important functions that SV has been involved in, among others. in connection with the discussion on allowing the sale of certain non-prescription medicinal products outside of pharmacy, to which we were very critical. The information obligation and the control of the sale were important arguments for us. We're going to have a critical attitude in the continuation, and I'm going to ask the ministry to evaluate the information that we received from the Apothek Association earlier this year, that the poison info.central reports on the doubling of mismedication due to paracetamol. It was also claimed in this meeting that prescription-free medicines are growing enormously, and that 35 pst. the sale of paracetamol takes place outside the pharmacy. When medicines are taken out of pharmacies, they are also exempted from supervision, which has consequences for sales in pharmacies, we were told. This is a concern we have from SV's side, and I think there is reason to follow developments in this area. I would also like to highlight the issue of the import of medicinal products, and in particular prescription medicines via the Internet. Here we're very concerned, and I'm glad that the department has an active attitude to this particular question. SV believes that there is reason to take this very seriously, and we are sceptical that an import ban, for example. could be contrary to the EEA Agreement because it would distort competition. In that case, I believe there is reason to ask if not prescribed in itself is a barrier to competition. When the committee visited the Pharmacy Association, we were presented with many good arguments to make more use of the pharmacies. We were told that nine out of ten Norwegians live in pharmacies, and that we are talking about 6,000 health professionals who are available free of charge and without an hourly order. The pharmacy association was more active, naturally, in relation to large disease groups such as asthma, COPD, high cholesterol and diabetes – in addition to LAR patients, who are drug addicts in drug assisted rehabilitation. In the case of diabetes, the cooperation between the pharmacies and the Diabetes Association is close and, I think, good. A lot of other work is done on a project-based basis in pharmacies and it will be exciting to see the results of the evaluations. In particular, it becomes interesting to hear the experience of the so-called ‘drug calls’. Trials in Denmark should have shown that each invested krone saved three kronor, because the drug costs decreased, and fewer had to seek medical attention or be hospitalized. Also in Skåne in Sweden they must have had very good results. I would like to commend the Council of State for a balanced approach to the issue we are now discussing. It is interesting to discuss whether pharmacies should perform more functions, but at the same time it is important to include a critical position in the discussion. As the Council of State says, for example: a possible issue is whether health services in pharmacies will provide incentives to promote the sale of medicinal products and other pharmacies, and whether pharmacists have the relevant competence to interpret test results in all situations and provide proper advice to patients on proper follow-up. I also think it is positive that the Council of State says that she will keep assessing whether there is a need for detailed guidelines to ensure that pharmacies do not develop too far towards ‘land trade’ or towards a health centre. The representative Jan Bøhler is concerned with the lack of availability of pharmacies at some times and in some places in the country. It's an important focus that we've also taken up repeatedly from the SV page before. Among other things, we have called for an upper limit, i.e. a concession ceiling, on the establishment of pharmacies in central districts. My predecessor in the committee, Olav Gunnar Ballo, explained this by pointing out that if you get a high degree of pharmacies in central areas, and you depend on professionals at the different pharmacies, you can easily have a situation where you are exacerbating the possibility of recruiting professionals for smaller municipalities. The apothecary has had a lot of criticism in the media lately. I agree with the representative of Bøhler that it is important to do a thorough job in this matter, including: as regards ownership issues. It is serious when the Pharmaceutical Association states in the media that they are not surprised by price shocks and that they ‘know that the system of vertical integration, where the wholesalers own the pharmacies, invites creative agreements’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1761	It's been said a lot of sense, I think, in this interpellation debate. Harald T. Nesvik was the author of the new Pharmacy Act which entered into force on 1 March 2001. I think most people believe that this was a good change, and that the new pharmacy law basically works well. As the council said, there was a place between 160 and 170 new pharmacies, so the availability has improved. Wait time's down. But with regard to the price of medicines, nothing has happened in particular. After all, one of them follows and reads what is in the newspapers, including: that someone is suspected of price cooperation, etc. I think there is reason to be critical of a development in which one does not see major differences in the price of medicinal products and services. Some of the discussion today is about the pharmacies’ obligations. In the case of the pharmacovigilance system, there is an important system, particularly in the districts, where, by having longer opening hours, possibly night-time, pharmacies do not have the same potential for earnings as those with a higher population base. I think it is good to hear that someone has this watchpocket system under continuous assessment, and that there are also provisions to be able to expand it if necessary. Governments referred to a trial in pharmacies where a drug review is a lowthreshold drug. I think there's reason to stress that the pharmacies should only be one arena. These are other areas that I think are important and that I think are being neglected. This applies, inter alia, to: many prescribers who do not have a continuous and proper review of the individual’s use and consumption of medicinal products. It turns out that a lot of people are mistreated, they go on drugs and on combinations of drugs – as the disease picture changes – that are not good. I know that this is something that the Medical Association is also concerned about, that the prescribers also need to get better at going through the individual patient's drug use continuously, so that patients are sure that they are going on the right drugs. At the same time, I would like to say that someone is holding up the pharmacies as a possible place where this can happen, and there are trials going on in relation to it. But the pharmacies also have an agenda – they have to make money. It is important to bear in mind when talking about pharmacies expanding their territory and taking a greater part of the obligations relating to information on the use of medicinal products. Apotenes have in a way a dual role because they are to sell, and because they can recommend special medicinal products, etc. I just think it's important that it is said, and that you have to be able to ask some critical questions about the pharmacies, because this is an area where they have a different agenda than for example. the doctors have, when they print out medicinal products.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1774	There are several elements that will be captured in this interpolation. I'll just comment on two of the fairly short ones. First, until the limited supply of vigilance “in the night and public holidays”, as stated in the inter-pellation text. Interpellanten was also involved in the number of pharmacies in Norway. As a district representative, I would like to say that the issue in the districts is not really whether or not there is a pharmacies in the vicinity. That's what's the question in a lot of areas. In the state I represent, Sogn and Fjordane, with 26 municipalities, we know that there is no pharmacy in all municipalities. It's probably some pharmacy, but I think we have to stick our finger in the ground and find out where we're going to bet. The Council of State calls for resources from the State budget to be used in order to obtain good pharmacies coverage in general in Norway. I think it's a real bet – before an expansion of the watch portfolio to some extent. That's what I think is really important. So let's go to another moment, i.e. this with low-threshold services in the pharmacy. I want to say that initially it seems pretty nice that we are going to use some resources there, and if there are available resources that you can get for free, so much for me. But if we're going to let people go to the pharmacy and for example. get a measure of blood pressure, and then they know that they have high blood pressure, one has to ask, how will they react to that information? I would like to say that such an information is worthless if one does not put it in a context. In my view, it must be a competent doctor who puts it in that context. I'll be pretty skeptical about this if you don't coordinate it with the fixed medical system. The system started to meet people’s health needs at the lowest level. If you want to have a new low-threshold offer on these areas, you can hardly see that it is recommended. As the representative of Skjælaa was in, it is doubtful that a new, expanded offer is free and frank. That means you have to use some resources, but I think we have to prioritize other things. We need to give priority to those who really need low-threshold services. There are completely different patient groups than the common man and woman in Norway. There's patients inside the care unit and the psychiatry. The left will give priority to those who need it the most. If we were to expand the low-threshold supply, it is this group that we want to prioritise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1785	I thank all those who have made contributions, for contributions to the debate, and for the honor. There is probably much agreement on the issues, except for the last article, where there were some objections. I'll comment on some of the things we've been into. In this case, low-threshold services — blood sugar measurement, blood pressure, spirometrics in relation to asthma and COPD, etc. It's a matter of having someone immediately refer you to a doctor. It's a matter of course. The ability to reach these groups, as we know, with undetected disorders, at an earlier stage through this large, large system, which has the very largest public contact in the health care system, namely the pharmacies – why shouldn't we? To be honest, I don't understand Ludvigsen when he starts talking about resource use, etc., because these are also groups that have important disorders. For both them and society, it will lead to major problems later if we don't discover them as early as possible. I can't see that it's in contrast to psychiatry etc. Ludvigsen mentioned drug users. Medically assisted treatment is one of the things I think you should do more at the pharmacies. So to the other issues we've been dealing with. I was very pleased with the contributions of the representative Nesvik, who brought more knowledge into the debate. And that, I think, with regard to the deepening that the representative of Nesvik came with in the case of tailor-made medicines – the need to develop quality, the need for individual pharmacies to adapt the medicine to the one coming in – will go more and more in that direction. It's a very important angle that shows that the quality has to get better, we'll need more educated people, etc., at the pharmacies. In relation to the objection that the representative of Sjøli had when it came to my comments regarding sales outside the pharmacy, I would like to say that it must not be misunderstood in the direction that I want to turn the clock back. What I want to point out is that the development of pharmacies services will move more and more towards the need for better quality and tailoring of the individual patient’s supply. And then the main track is a developed pharmacy system, which is what we have to build on, and that's the way of thinking here. But it was not meant by my side to turn the clock back. I appreciate the debate. And I think it's like, among other things, The representative Nesvik said that the pharmacies depend on a good economy, we all agree. But we also need to ensure cleanliness, and to follow up on the current economic problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1799	It seems that there is a fairly broad consensus on the way forward within this area. I just want to say that there is no doubt that the availability of medicines and pharmaceutical services has improved significantly in recent years, which many people have been involved in, both because we have received more pharmacies, and because we have received the sale of certain prescription-free medicines in over 5,000 new outlets. But this has not led to any increased mistreatment for that reason, based on the reports we have so far. Then, of course, it's right, as the representative of Bohemia has pointed out, that the offer of janitorial janitorial services in the night and public holidays is limited. It is also right, as the representative Ludvigsen says, that in the districts this is often solved by the fact that it is a doctor and a doctor who sells medicines. The important thing is that the offer is there. We have to have different solutions across the country, but I believe that there is a consensus on that. However, there has also been no desire to ensure that the availability of emergency medicinal products is always covered by national pharmacovigilance systems. But within the arrangements we have, of course, it's important that there are opening hours that make those who need drugs in the evening and night, also get them in some way, and I think there's a broad consensus about that, and we should also look at that. So the question of price has naturally been raised in the debate. To that I would like to say that in order to check that we in Norway are at a price level in relation to other countries, I would like to take the initiative for an external price review, because we have to be absolutely sure of that. Based on the headlines that have been in recent times, I think it's wise to have such a review, and by doing so, the Storting is informed about it. Then I agree with everyone who has said that in the case of pharmacy services around the country, we have a large apparatus with a high level of competence. It is clear that we need to continue to consider how we can make positive use of it for the benefit of patients, updated by the reality we live today. With regard to the issue of multidoses – it was the representative of Nesvik who addressed it – the Social and Health Directorate is now working on that matter. It's an important area. I'm going to get back to that case as well in a suitable way, but it's working, because I think this is also an area where there are opportunities and the need to do things in a better way. So I agree with the representative, Bøhler, that I think it's still a potential to take some simpler checks at the pharmacies, besides what one does today. And I have an open attitude to be able to move forward on that path within the framework drawn up by the Storting. So I want to get back to Stortinget in a suitable way once we have reviewed the reports and evaluations that we are doing, so that we can get together a better system in terms of pharmacies, which consists of many people with a high level of competence, who we need to take advantage of throughout our healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1814	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1832	I want to start my post with a story from real life. It's a story of a mother who only after 12 medical visits got to know what was wrong with her eleven-month-old daughter Linnéa. The only mother tells the Romanesque magazine on March 5th this year about the nightmare weeks in January when she and her daughter were almost sent in shuttle traffic between the tenure, medical care and the children's ward at Akershu University Hospital. During the twelfth visit, on Ullevål, which she herself had to ask for, she finally got the answer: Her little daughter had asthma. The child received immediate treatment, and the effect came immediately. The mother says that she is very happy that her daughter got better, but is still stated about the meeting with the health care service and the long way to an answer. It's not hard to understand. It shouldn't be like that. In the same paper, Secretary General Geir Endegard of Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations says that he has heard many similar stories, and believes that general practitioners generally have too little knowledge of asthma. It is worrying that lack of knowledge of asthma in doctors in the first line service contributes to such experiences, to despair, insecurity and suffering both for children and parents. A large study from Oslo, from Ullevål University Hospital, shows that 20 pst. all children have, or have had, asthma during the first 10 years of life. This study has followed the children from birth to their ten - year - olds. Similar studies are available abroad. All studies show a worryingly high incidence of childhood asthma. Those are scary numbers. There is a doubling of the number of children affected during a 10-year period. The incidence of asthma among Norwegian children is higher than in other European countries. Asthma is the most frequent chronic disease among children, and the main cause of children being hospitalised. It's serious for the victim, it's a heavy burden for the families, and it's a serious social problem. It is assumed that only approx. 10 pst. of asthma cases due to inheritance. The remainder is due to external factors, such as: environment and lifestyle. Many children get sick from going to kindergarten. They get sick from the indoor environment at school. They get sick of being outdoors in town. Some get sick by staying in their own home. In other words, we are facing a major challenge. I would like to pay tribute to the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations, who have put children and asthma on the agenda by appointing 2007 as the Year of Babysitting. This action focuses on an area that clearly needs considerable attention and efforts from several policy areas. We politicians must welcome such an initiative, commitment and cooperation. Our common goal must be to stop the emergence of the disease. It's demanding, both for children and for parents. A significant effort is required in everyday life, and much is required of us. If we are to succeed in combating the emergence of asthma, it is essential to raise awareness of the disease in terms of prevention, treatment and control. Norway's Asthma and Allergy Associations have clear demands for us as politicians. They want to put in place a comprehensive national strategy on asthma. It's a requirement that the Right fully supports. The association has a significant knowledge and experience in this field. They have broad contact with parents and children and know what the challenges are. In my opinion, it is very important that the Ministry cooperate closely with the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations when designing the strategy and measures. I am aware that the Minister of Health has expressed a positive opinion on such a national strategy. I look forward to her comment explaining how far a strategy has come, and what concrete measures she believes need to be taken in order to improve the situation both in the short and long term. Although we know that poor indoor climate and air pollution are significant causes of asthma storage, there is a need for more research in this area. It is important to gain further knowledge of the environmental and lifestyle conditions in society that lead to asthma in the population. If we are to have opportunities to prevent and reduce the number of people affected by the disease, more knowledge about the causes is required. It is a fact that not everyone can avoid asthma, no matter how many measures are taken. Families themselves can do a lot to improve conditions, but there are many environmental factors that cannot be avoided by individuals. As politicians, we have a great responsibility to ensure control of harmful environmental conditions that can trigger the disease. As I was in it, it is a major task, which requires efforts from a broad field, and indeed from most policy areas. Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations point out that there is a lack of knowledge among health professionals and that there is a need to significantly increase research efforts. It is important that health professionals, especially in the primary healthcare system, become more aware of the disease and its causes. Then, hopefully, it will be easier to make a safe diagnosis early, get started quickly, ensure a better quality of life and prevent the disease from developing and becoming serious. Early diagnosis and treatment could reduce the suffering of patients and families. It's not least the story of little Linnea an example of. In addition, of course, knowledge of the causes is very important for us as politicians and for social planners both in the country and in the municipality. I would like to ask the Minister of Health and Care if she is prepared to – and willing to – increase the amount of funding for asthma research and to earmark these research resources. There is a need to further strengthen patient training. I again want to highlight Norway's Asthma and Allergy Associations, which do a very good job through their website for parents and children. There is a website that is established in connection with the Year of Babysitting. Many parents have missed practical information on how to facilitate the treatment of children with asthma. There are issues related to school leaving, pediatric medicine, infections, drug use, animal husbandry and outdoor activities. A study carried out by the Asthma and Allergy Association among parents shows that parents experience that employees in schools and kindergartens do not have enough knowledge of asthma. Teachers, pre-school teachers, health sisters and SFO staff confirm that they need more knowledge and information. Here I think the website for parents and children can be a good tool. It is an action that I believe we must wholeheartedly support. It is a fact that, most often, there is a lack of knowledge in municipalities that is the cause of poor indoor climate in public buildings. Many people do not know about the work environment law for children or the regulations for environmental health protection in schools and kindergartens. The state's construction office believes that there is a lack of knowledge that leads to a lack of priority for indoor climate in schools and kindergartens. Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations point out that indoor climates are often sacrificed in the construction process because they are to be built quickly and cheaply. Ventilation systems are down-prioritised, high construction speeds lead to the concrete not drying properly, and cheap materials are used. At all events, too little attention is paid to clean construction processes. It is a well-known case that there is poor maintenance of buildings. The result is a poor indoor climate and unsustainable conditions in schools and kindergartens, which is very unfavourable for both large and small people with asthma and allergies. I would like to ask the Council of State what she will do to ensure that public offices – state and local authorities – have sufficient knowledge and priority for a sound indoor climate when it comes to building, for example. schools and kindergartens. Asthma is a serious disease, which severely restricts the individual's life-exploitation, schooling and professional life, a disease that can be killed in the worst cases. At the same time, it is fortunate to live a good life with the disease if the knowledge is good enough, if a proper diagnosis is made early, if it is given right and good medicine, and if both a good indoor climate and a good outdoor climate are prioritised. It is important to focus on opportunities, and with good treatment and training, children and young people with asthma can participate in activities such as other children. Asthma is a people's disease, and the time is overdue for a cross-political national lift. This is about the future of hundreds of thousands of our children and young people. I look forward to hearing the Council's answers and assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17.ana.ud2631e1876	It shall set out in the Rules of Procedure the time of the morning's sitting is soon to come. The President would like the Stortinget to take a break and the evening meeting to be held at noon. 18 – and see it as accepted.
