ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e45	The request for the leave of the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen, from 30 November to 3 December, to take part in the election of the Nordic Council, shall be submitted to the LAG. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first representative of West Agder County Knud Edmund Berthelsen is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox Other alternates, Astrid Bekenes, are invited to meet during the period of leave.2. Astrid Bekkenes is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e72	Astrid Bekkenes is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e86	I'll be brief, but find reason to clarify one thing: This setting by the Presidency has its background in Innst. S. No 115 for 2006-2007 by the Foreign Affairs Committee on the Government’s Europe Communication, St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006. In that position, the Foreign Affairs Committee takes up a number of issues that have to do with both Storting’s Rules of Procedure, the government’s relationship with the Stortinge and the Stortinge’s own work with regard to the EU and the various institutions of the EU, inter alia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This position is concerned only with the need to amend the Rules of Procedure, in particular with regard to the functioning of the EEA Committee, which we propose will be called the European Committee, and the rights and opportunities of the Trade Union Committees in the discussions in the European Committee. It is therefore only about amendments to the Rules of Procedure on that occasion. All the other important issues raised by the Committee on Foreign Affairs will, of course, be dealt with differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e97	The Presidency's position on the issue of amendments to the Stortinge Rules of Procedure – European policy is a follow-up to the St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006, on the implementation of European policy, and is also based on the Innst. S. No 115 for 2006-2007 by the Foreign Affairs Committee. In both these basic documents, the main intention is that the Storting should be more involved in the work on EU matters and that recordings and assessments should be made at an early stage. What does that mean? Let me do an example. The EU can work on a Green Paper of relevance to EEA countries. The government is aware of the preparatory work on the document and captures our influence through the channels available. It may be useful for the Scientific Committees in Stortinget to be informed that the matter is under way. Similarly, in some cases it may be safe for the government to know what the position is in Stortinget. In its assessment of the matter by the Foreign Affairs Committee, one was concerned about how a professional committee could actually act at an earlier stage of the procedure. Here one can imagine more solutions. The least innovative variant is that the technical committees are also sent to the files already transferred to the European Committee today to call it that. The Committees may then decide whether to issue an opinion to the European Committee, possibly in the light of government requests. In any event, this mechanism does not provide any benefit in order to enter into the proceedings earlier and limits the scope of the Committees in the cases at least referred to by the European Committee. The Foreign Affairs Committee also considered two other solutions. One was to introduce government grossing-up notes to relevant specialist committees dealing with ongoing issues in the EU system, i.e. a new system. It could provide a basis for the Committees to decide to initiate proceedings on relevant matters. However, the Foreign Affairs Committee chose a third solution. It would give the Committees a certain right of initiative, i.e. a new system in which the Committees themselves could choose to address EU-related matters. On the right, we expected the presidency's position to discuss the different models. However, I do not find such an assessment in the premise of the adjustment. On the other hand, there are wordings in the proposal for a decision which can be interpreted differently. I refer you to the proposal to amend Section 13(a) of the second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure on page 4 of the motion for a resolution. It says: «Documents sent to the European Committee by the Government shall also be sent to the relevant professional committees. The Committees may ask the Government to submit other documents relating to EU/EEA matters. The Committees may also ask the relevant member of the Government in writing on such matters but may not hold a hearing.’;» If the Presidency thereby considers matters other than those routinely transmitted through the European Committee, it will be consistent with the unanimous intention of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would therefore ask for a confirmation or clarification of the interpretation. If it turns out that the interpretation covers only the same documents from the European Committee as before, we cannot see, for our part, that one has achieved any significant improvement in relation to both the Government's and the Foreign Affairs Committee's intentions. In this case, for our part, we will come back with a request for a new round of proceedings, in order to assess other solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e121	I am pleased that the representative Vallersnes is addressing this, so that we can clarify what is meant. It is quite right, as he points out, that the proposal for a new text of the Rules of Procedure states: ‘The Committees may ask the Government to submit other documents relating to EU/EEA matters’. This means that the Committees may, of course, take up and deliver an opinion on matters other than those which are pending in the form of legislative acts and which are first dealt with in the European Committee, and in particular in the EEA Committee in Brussels. That's a pretty important question. Because what I have understood has been a point on the part of the Foreign Affairs Committee, is that the Storting can get into the picture early enough in dealing with issues that are on the agenda of the European Union. That is why we have formulated ourselves as we have done, both with regard to the current legal acts and, of course, with regard to the political processes in the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e133	I don't take the word in the sense that I want to make an article about this. I fully agree with what President-in-Office Igland has said on this matter. When the representative, Vallersnes, asks for confirmation that this is the way he has understood this, that we have meant it by the Presidency, I can confirm it. If you need such confirmation, I'm going to give it to you. I welcome the initiative of the Foreign Affairs Committee, on which we have had several rounds in the Presidency. I believe, at least – of course, it is up to the committees and the Storting itself – that this could mean that the Storting is more closely involved in the processes and debates around matters from the EU and the EEA. This is an important step in that direction and a positive initiative, and I want to express it this way. For me, there is nothing in the representative Vallersnes’ posts as the scrambler in relation to the understanding I have of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e142	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 833]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e158	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e174	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines with up to three lines after the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e183	This case stems from the fact that Siv Jensen's representative took up a case in Stortinget on 25 May this year, based on Dagsrevyen's report on an asylum seeker who was paroled from prison after a conviction for attempted killing. The UDI assessed this person as unfit for accommodation on premises with a reinforced compartment and was therefore placed at regular reception with security guards on a 24-hour basis. This news item raised a lot of concern in the local environment. The Minister of Justice has previously explained the status of the case in the Stortinget. In this big message, a response was given to the questions that were asked and that were not answered in that context. The notification explains the current situation of reception residents who may present a risk or hazard. The notification contains a description of the current reception system and the competences and powers, opportunities and limitations within this system. In the course of the Committee's proceedings, the majority, i.e. all lots minus the Party of Progress – point to some conditions. In particular, the majority will emphasise that permanent coordination and coordination procedures will be established between the relevant authorities and that individual plans and resource networks will be established as early as possible around residents in reception to which concerns are related. It is also pointed out that it will be considered to extend the initial health study to include a mental health monitoring. From the point of view of the Progress Party, this is a big message that underlines even more strongly the lack of the right means to meet the kind of challenges posed by potentially dangerous asylum seekers today. It is obvious to the Progress Party that a closed reception system must be put in place so that we can protect the civilian population against potentially dangerous people, but also for several other reasons that we have discussed in other matters. This is going back, it is going to avoid an even greater increase in the number of illegal immigrants, it can be about the security of the state in some situations, and it is about dealing with IDless people. Every time we have raised this question, the Council of State has shown that international conventions, in particular the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, are in the way of us using closed receptions. It is an assessment that the Progress Party does not agree with. We know that there are other countries in Europe, but also other democracies outside Europe, which use similar mechanisms. The important and fundamental thing for using such schemes is that there is legal certainty at the bottom. And of course you should. But it's time independence that you don't get an arbitrary length of stay in closed reception. It's true that there's a possibility that this can actually be tested on different appeals. And as long as you fulfil those conditions, in the opinion of the Progress Party, it is entirely possible to use closed reception. I also refer to the recent debate on mulla Krekar, where former judges of the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, Hanne Sophie Greve, have stated quite clearly that it is fully possible to use these types of arrangements without a breach of the EMC.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e203	This setting for Stortinget is based on a big message in the light of a statement by the Minister of Justice, as the Progress Party mentioned in its statement. Regardless of the background of this staging message, it provides a good status review. That's what I want to say first. We all need some adult education in terms of rules and how we exercise the authority we have. So the review is okay. The area and the theme discussed in the communication must be taken seriously. And so does the right. But at the same time, I would say that this is a delicate field, and that is a difficult field. And it also has to be treated then. People with mental disorders deserve to be taken seriously, and they deserve treatment and follow-up. It'll be too easy just to talk about custody. The Council of State points to a number of measures that he believes need to be taken. I would also like to highlight fixed procedures for coordination and coordination between the relevant authorities. It's all right, we have to have, in this field as in other fields within general government. It's going on at the overall level. Then the Council of State also points out that we must have individual plans around the individual person. Of course we have to have that too. In schools, we have individual plans around the children who are not doing well enough, with a network to deal with them. So we have to have that right over here. But then I hope that there will be more action and not just words in this field in the area of mental health. For in the case of individual plans, the County of Telemark, my county, has, through supervision, quite a number of comments that decisions on individual plans are not being followed. So what needs to be is action and reality. The government will further investigate the use of detention. I am pleased that the Council of State has that point, and that he is willing to – even if we stick to international conventions and respect the agreement we have – go in and look at a further examination of this field. I think we all deserve to do that, as far as possible. The point that I'm most concerned with in this debate will be the point on which the Right on several occasions has concentrated, namely the reception we give to first-time asylum seekers and immigrants. At the reception, they arrive at a first health survey. During the previous government, the Bondevik II government, after the carnage that happened, it was very focused on mental health among newly arrived immigrants and asylum seekers. It was then decided to launch a pilot project to obtain a map on arrival in the country. This pilot project was due to be completed in 2006 and the State budget for 2007 said it was delayed. When I looked for the state budget for 2008, there was nothing. On that basis, I have addressed a written question to the Council of State, and I have received an answer as to why we have not heard anything. The answer is correct enough, but it does not provide security for the future; there are a number of detailed complications in relation to this. So we're actually standing with a little bit of a hand on this field. One thing is that things take time, but there's a limit to how long things should take. How long should we have to wait before we enter this field – which is so difficult and so important – and do something concrete? That is precisely why – and also with the background of an interpellation debate that I had here in Stortinget six months ago, with the same theme and vague answers from the Minister for Health – the Right has presented the following proposals in this case: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a separate case on mental health and relief measures for refugees and asylum seekers, including the monitoring of the mental health status of newly arrived asylum seekers/refugees.’ Fortunately, here we have received support from the Left and Christian People's Party. I hope the government parties can support us. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e225	The President requests that the speaking time be respected. The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e230	Society can never protect itself against persons who, for various reasons, pose a threat to the community, to other persons or to itself. Nor should we make general policies out of individual ships, even if they are asylum seekers. A fundamental principle shall be that persons representing a hazard should be treated equally, irrespective of their political and social status. I am reasonably sure that if it had been a Northman who was in the same situation, we would not have made this a political matter and dealt with it here in Stortinget. This will be dealt with here in Stortinget because it is an asylum seeker who was in this situation. If that assumption is correct, there is reason to be on guard. That being said, it is important that we take seriously the fact that more asylum seekers have experiences and experiences that have set deep boundaries. With such experiences, most of us would most likely have had traumas that had to be processed. There is also a need to take seriously the fact that the actual duration of the proceedings and the uncertainty can exacerbate the mental problems of many asylum seekers. Therefore, it is so important that they are met with respect and understanding, and that they are taken seriously. Being believed in and feeling secure is probably the most important thing to reduce the extent of traumas that have developed. I am pleased that the message is clear and clear that there is help and treatment needed, and not primary incarceration. We have a lot to learn from others. In Denmark, they have built up a dedicated centre of expertise dealing with trauma after torture. For example, you can go to the center. refer to adults and children who have suffered torture, other forms of organised violence or traumatic events in the form of terror experiences developed during war, civil war or political persecution. You can also refer to adults and children who live with traumatized people whose physical, mental and social integrity is strained by these relationships. The establishment of such a centre, in addition to traditional mental health protection, is likely to make it easier for many asylum seekers to obtain help and dare to accept assistance. In addition, such a centre will be important in building special skills in an area where there is probably little experience in Norwegian psychiatry. It is important to be able to hold the tongue in the mouth in the case of tragic events involving asylum seekers or immigrants. We know that the cry of throwing them out comes pretty quickly from certain environments. It may include persons who are illegal here, who have been refused an application, who may be sick or who have done something criminally. When we meet that kind of call, we're going to have two basic principles for our way of acting. Firstly, the Norwegian law is to be complied with and applicable. If the offences are to be prosecuted, the criminal law applies. If the person suffers from severe mental illness, the law on mental health protection is to be applied. This means, among other things: the ability to impose coercive measures on persons who are unreliable. Secondly, we always have to be clear and clear about following up international conventions and declarations. The European Convention on Human Rights is clear and clear about what we can send people back to. We're not going to send back people who can be in danger of life or who are in danger of being imprisoned. I am confident that the measures described in the Communication are sensible and good: closer cooperation between different departments, networking around individuals who are exposed – as we know have had traumatic experiences, and who have developed trauma – better registration and implementation of relief measures at an early stage, preferably at the stage when they are waiting for the application to be dealt with. Even if they are to be sent out and not given the right to stay, they must live on – and they need help to master life. Therefore, early-stage assistance and support are crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e245	St.meld. No 37 contains a description of the current reception system, the competence and powers, possibilities and limitations of the system. Issues concerning the detention or imprisonment of illegally staying foreigners in Norway are also addressed. The Christian People's Party has noted that the Government will address serious situations in which asylum seekers or persons without legal residence in Norway are released from prison or discharged by a psychiatric institution without a residence offer other than a state asylum recipient. The fact that many asylum seekers have mental problems is not difficult to understand. Many asylum seekers and refugees in this country have traumatic events and reactions to them in their luggage. We have to take that seriously. That is why the Christian People's Party has joined forces with the Right and Left to make proposals asking the Government to come up with a separate case for mental health and help for refugees and asylum seekers. It is regrettable that the government parties do not support the proposal of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – but I would nevertheless urge the Council of State to take this idea into account in the further work. It is important to focus on the treatment of asylum seekers and refugees with mental problems in society. We must have good practice when situations arise where the mental health of an asylum seeker can lead to dangerous situations. The representative, Mr Rikvam, said in his statement that this would not have been a political matter if it had not been an asylum seeker. I agree. At the same time, we must be aware that we need even better measures for asylum seekers, because there is an even more vulnerable group than the population. We need to do more to prevent situations from actually occurring. Therefore, we need to look at the reasons why, in some cases, the mental health status of asylum seekers becomes more serious after they come to the country. Some of the reasons are in our system. The long waiting time in the process of processing asylum applications causes many to remain in office for years without having to clarify their situation. We need to look at the relationship between living in uncertainty on an asylum recipient without having anything sensible to deal with and mental health. We need to ensure that we do not have a system that will actually make the mental health of asylum seekers and refugees worse than it was originally. St.meld. No The European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, also provides for a discussion of the provisions of the 2006-2007 European Convention on Human Rights. In its position on this subject, the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party refer to this and state that they: ‘recognises that the European Convention on Human Rights is applicable as Norwegian law and that Article 3 prevents Norway from sending persons to countries where they are at risk of torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment’. [[EMK]] Here the Progress Party points out that the death penalty falls into this category and thus prevents Norway from returning criminals who are at risk of death penalty in their country of origin. So the Progress Party believes that there is a need to renegotiate and modernise some international conventions, because they believe that the international conventions represent an unreasonable obstacle to the drafting of national laws. What does the Progress Party really mean by this? What conventions are what they want to renegotiate? Or in another way: is it so to understand that the Progress Party believes that Norway should be able to send a human being back if he is at risk of being sent home to the death penalty? I had appreciated a clarification from the Advance Party at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e269	In May this year, the representative Jensen put a little fuss in the staging room. Through good dramaturgy, the Progress Party received all the attention it wanted about an asylum seeker with a death sentence. The representative Jensen wanted an immediate response to what the government wanted to do, and whether they wanted to act. I think the message we have received, St.meld. No 37 for 2006-2007, shows that the Government takes such situations seriously, and we have received a good review. It also points forward in improving coordination between agencies and has focused on return. It also describes how to increase the allocation of UDI and UNE to speed up the procedure, so that people get a shorter waiting time instead of a long waiting time. I think the review we have received is a good review, and I am also pleased with the debate that has been here. Both the representative of Rikvam and the representative of Tørresdal highlight the complexity of these matters. But to make my post brief: I think the message shows that the government takes these kinds of things seriously, and I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e280	At the beginning of the 1990s, we had some tough violence episodes in Oslo School. Many of the violence episodes were linked to young people who had come to the country and who had had strong war experiences. Then there was a cry in Oslo that we had ticking bombs walking around the city in the form of kids who could perform terrible acts of violence in a short time. Then the best professionals in Oslo School settled down to take a deep interview with 119 kids who had strong war experiences, or who had parents with strong war experiences – everything from child soldiers to others. That study was a great aha experience for the Oslo School. That study showed that these are not ticking bombs. That study showed that there was no more violence in this group, but the study also showed that this group fixed quite well the primary school, they thought it was okay to go to high school, but when they got to high school, they started to face major problems at school. At high school these students had to concentrate, they had to think in longer ways, and with strong violent experiences and strong war experiences, the long ways of thinking are difficult. We all know that who have some knowledge of post-traumatic disorders. So it was actually not ticking bombs. But it was a major educational challenge for Oslo's teachers to be able to organize school everyday life in such a way that these students would get out of school everyday. So instead of starting with the anti-violence project, you started working with the pedagogical skills of teachers who were working to make these students work well in school everyday life, and make them work with their experiences. This, I think, is a great custodian for politicians who have easily answered all the challenges as soon as they see them, for example. a violence at Hersleb school, and then the conclusion is that we have ticking bombs among ourselves. Kids aren't ticking bombs. Kids are kids. There's also a lesson that we should take with us when it comes to adults. I think I agreed with everything that the representative Reikvam said in his post. But I don't think there's any reason, when we get challenges and events around us that scare people, to say that we shouldn't do anything – sail if we don't want to generalize, and sail if we don't want to say that it concerns everyone. That's why the Left and the Right and Christian People's Party agree on the proposal today, because we believe it's important to have focus and competence on exactly these challenges. I don't think we've been walking an army of ticking bombs, but I think we have a lot of people who can rely on things that we don't want them to do, because they have terrible experiences behind them and thus get problems in their lives, which become difficult to deal with anyway. I had hoped that the government had taken the proposal seriously, taken the challenge that we need to have increased focus on exactly that assessment of mental health, and make sure that everyone gets the help they need. We know that such things are so individual. Some people can experience the most terrible and yet work well in life afterwards, while others can have one terrible experience, and then the whole life is ruined. That's why we need to have individual follow-up of each one, so we need to have the skills of those who meet them, who know what to look for, and who know what to ask first of all of those who are not quite able to say what is the main challenge of their lives. I hope the Government takes the challenge that lies in the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left's proposal. It's actually not an attempt at stigmatisation, but an attempt to increase the quality of a reception, which might make life better for other people. And then it gets better for us as a society as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e297	This is an important issue on a very serious topic, a topic that is upsetting many. It is about the security of our citizens, it is about the residents of reception and their security, and it is about the help of each asylum seeker who needs follow-up. Over the years, we've seen examples of issues where, when you get it presented in the media, you can almost stumble over what in the world there are kind of assessments that have led to this handling. Or maybe, have there been any assessments at all? So also in the case that was the basis for today's discussion of this question. It is important that the matter be clarified, even though the motivation was strengthened by the fact that there was a campaign going on, and that it was a desire to profile the party more than perhaps an honest desire to help the people who needed it. I need to say that this is not a theme where you will ever have full guarantees against experiencing violent and dangerous events – even in the future. We have seen earlier this autumn that the Medical Association is concerned that more and more doctors are experiencing violence and threats, and that doctors will have the opportunity to refuse to accept certain patients. This applies to as many Norwegians as non-residents and illustrates that this is a problem area where there are no simple solutions. In fact, eager to find effective and effective solutions is also at risk of exacerbating the problem. The proposal of the Progress Party for closed reception is such a proposal, where, in fact, eagerness to do something good could be at risk of exacerbating the situation for the individual and for others. The government has now said that the use of detention should be assessed, but the main point must be that it should be within our international commitments. The articles of the Progress Party here in the Chamber, as well as previous posts, illustrate one important thing: if you are prepared to conclude agreements with a party such as the Progress Party – a party that concludes and holds them as long as they themselves serve on it, but as soon as it becomes problematic, we shall renegotiate the agreements, and we shall renegotiate our international obligations. Although the presentation given in the media of such matters can often give the impression I sketched in the beginning, we see from the news of big business and what the council writes, that the government is already doing a lot in this field. Firstly, more effective treatment of expulsion cases for convicted foreigners is being pursued. In addition, the procedures for the release of deportees shall be reviewed. More measures have been put in place to improve the effectiveness of return work, and in the last year Norway has returned to more countries than our neighbouring country has. At the same time, permanent coordination and coordination procedures between the relevant authorities shall be established in the future. In addition, procedures for cooperation between the UDI and the police in the registration and interview of asylum seekers should be examined to ensure a faster and more effective clarification of identity and nationality. In this, there is probably a sense of the need to do more, even if the government is already doing a good job. Individual plans are to be further worked on and resource networks are to be established around residents in receptions to which concern is attached. Finally, I would like to touch on the issue of mental health, which is the starting point for many of these issues we experience in the field. All asylum seekers are currently undergoing an initial health survey. The extension of this health study to mental health monitoring should now be considered. The majority have a strong understanding of the background of the proposal put forward here in the Chamber and in this case, and it's not that we disagree with the content, but to be honest, it's not a tradition that a majority instructs their own government. The government is already working to assess whether to extend the initial study to mental health. Therefore, I would like to ask the representative who presented the proposal to consider making the proposal for a transmission proposal. So the government parties have to do the job their way, in order to get a quick and effective treatment of that issue as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e319	I agree with all those who have said today that these are important issues, and that is an important issue. I am, of course, glad that the committee has given me support to the way we are now working on matters relating to the matter. I think it was the representative of Trine Skei Grande who said it's important that we do something, that we follow up. I would like to take the opportunity through this article to explain a little about the two main tracks we are now working for in the follow-up to the Storing Message. The first is that we set up an internal working group with several departments and Directorates: the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Justice, the Directorate of Foreign Affairs, the Directorate of Integration and Diversity, and the Directorate of Social Affairs and Health, where we have looked at what bottlenecks we have, how we can do something with those bottlenecks, and how we can coordinate ourselves further, for the benefit of the challenges we have. This internal working group is now finished, and I have just received the report from it. It can be said that that working group is particularly concerned about how we can improve our procedures in relation to the challenges of identifying potential risk persons. We're looking at reception conditions. We're looking at health studies not just on arrival, because often it turns out that what on arrival may seem to be quite fine, after a time of stay evolves into disease. Disease does not necessarily have to be identifiable on arrival, but may come gradually. Therefore, extended en route health studies at reception are also important. We have just evaluated the experience of enhanced reception services, and we are now reviewing the evaluation report to see if there is a need for new action there. We look at the legal security dilemma using watchkeeping, where I think we should be honest that there is an area of Norwegian law that does not have a clearly established case law. We look at the obligation of confidentiality, because one of the challenges we can face is that the health part can do a thorough job for a person, but when he is finished in e.g. a psychiatric department and transferred to reception, there is in no way an automatic means of transferring health-related knowledge to the receiving part. There is no unproblematic side, as it is clear that the professional secrecy of healthcare institutions is one of the most central in the relationship between patients and treatment. We are looking at the use of coercion, for example. It's one of the tracks where we're now working with the departments and the directorates by following up different bottlenecks. The second important element is that the representative Kari Lise Holmberg had in mind, that the National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress has now completed its report on the monitoring of the mental health of newly arrived asylum seekers. It has now been transmitted to the Social and Health Directorate. The National Knowledge Centre on Violence and Traumatic Stress, NKVTS, has tested various instruments for monitoring the health of asylum seekers relatively shortly after arrival. They conclude that the instruments are to varying degrees usable to this target population. Among other things, it depends on the level of education of the respondent. Many forms are very complicated. They have also tried out clinical interviews. They make a lot of recommendations. The report is now under assessment in the SHD, which will then send it to the Ministry of Health and Welfare. I assume that it is quite natural that both me and the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health report back to Stortinget how we now follow up on each of our fields. In this way, I believe that we should make sure to fulfill the intentions of the proposal of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e338	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e341	In particular, in the field of mental health, treatment and deportation are central to how we pursue immigration policy. Accelerating procedure and speeding up the shipment after rejection of the application are particularly important. The opposite is going to be to make things better for people to feel worse, and the greater the risk that the bad life will cause the health condition to get worse. So it's important to keep confidence in the asylum institute that we get faster processing. It is important to speed up procedures and, where appropriate, speedy decisions also because it leads to faster settlement, which is the basis for better integration. The concern now is that the processing time is longer than before, the queues are growing, and the police do not reach the target for transportation. Isn't the Council of State worried? And what will he do?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e348	Had the world been as the representative now described, I would have been concerned, but that is wrong, what is said. The queues are not growing, the queues are being built down. The UDI that this government has implemented this year, with 140 new case handlers, leads to the last reality the representative now describes. After the UDI measures have been implemented, the queues are falling. We fully agree that it is important to deal with matters as quickly as possible. That's why the government has invested much more in the UDI than the previous government did. That's why we've now managed to turn a negative development into a positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e355	Of course, the councils are right in what he claims, when he says that the queue goes down. But we know that the number of illegal immigrants is increasing. Part of the problem is that you do not use closed reception so that you can actually internalise asylum seekers. The problem, as I see it every time we discuss this, is that the Council of State does not take any principle distance from detention, but refers to international conventions and says that this is impossible. So now we have a situation in which former Strasbourg judge Hanne Sophie Greve has stated fairly clearly that detention can be used in certain situations, even though the Council of State has clearly rejected it. It is possible that the Council of State should seek new advice, from outside the Ministry. Is it not true that the Council of State is simply pushing international conventions ahead instead of taking up detention on a real basis, only to avoid internal conflicts in the Government? [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e364	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e367	It's also wrong. I agree with the EMK. Unlike the Advance Party, which votes for the EMK, and then disagrees with the EMK, I am in favour of the EMK. I believe that the EMK represents the right policy. I think it is absolutely right that we cannot internalize people on the assumption that if someone who is paroled from a prison is mentally ill, he can only be apprehended and internalized indefinitely. I'm very happy to live in a state of law that doesn't have that occasion. Now I hear Per-Willy Amundsen say, repeatedly, that there are other countries doing this. I want to say this to Per-Willy Amundsen: show me that country, show me the closed reception, and I'll go with him at any time and visit that reception. Find out where it is in Europe and I'll get a plane ticket. We can travel together and visit it. Until you come up with such an invitation, I think you're now finishing that story description. If you bring such an invitation, I'll join you.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e374	I would like to start by saying that I can imagine taking the Council of State and going to an asylum reception in Norway, preferably in Sandnes, not as far as to another country, just to see that there are some people who have a stamp that is irreversible – call it what you want – long, illegal stay. It is about people who have been rejected and who cannot be sent home: a Palestinian who does not have travel documents, a Yugoslav girl who does not have the proper papers about its origin. There's a lot of people sitting like that. How long are they going to have the problem of being sent out? Can the Council of State not see that we are creating psychiatric patients of those who remain in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e379	If I'm going to start traveling with the committee, I can join these people and say, "Come along with me, work with me, and we'll see if we can't get the documents you need to go home." If the Yugoslav girl is willing to be with me around, to her embassy, visit the police, ask for travel documents, and it turns out after such a trip that it is completely impossible to obtain these travel documents, she will be allowed to stay. That's the code. The basis for her not being able to return, I would say, is that she does not cooperate on return. There is no basis for staying in Norway. If one comes to Norway and does not cooperate on return, will a few stay? It must be Christian People's Party's foreign policy, but at least that's not the government's, and neither is SV's, as I've perceived it. It's a pretty exceptional foreign policy Bjørg Tørersdal makes himself a spokesman for it, but she has to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e384	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e389	There's a lot one could catch up to, but now at the end I'm at least going to make a heart attack: I'm actually being told by listening to Bjørg Dryersdal in terms of the paperless. We can't just deal with individual ships and individual cases. If we are to have a good society to live in the future, we are, in fact, dependent on a consistent immigration policy. We're going to give help to those who need help, but we also have to respect that we have laws and rules to comply with. It is the foundation of a good society in the future. It is true that the paperless – most of them – have been rejected, as the Council of State says, after long rounds. Many of them can go home. So a little visit also to the Advance Party. At the outset, the representative of the Progressive Party said that they had their own place of stand. That's absolutely right. They take their own stand in this debate. The Party for Progress fails quite consistently to deal with realities and to contribute to finding solutions. We see it in the case after case, and it strikes me every time. The Progress Party certainly has its motives, but I very much regret that they cannot participate in constructive solutions. Then finally to Arild Stokkan-Grande. I understand that the government parties do not join in on a proposal – it is not that long since we were also in government. For me, it is more important to agree on a matter and to try to find solutions in common than to vote in the Chamber today. I hereby accept to turn this into a transmission proposal. Then I'm glad that the Council of State says he's coming back to Stortinget with reports on this important topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e401	Like the representative Holmberg, we feel that we are aware of the attitudes taken by Tørresdal when it comes to not following law and order and – I kept saying – have a chance of dealing with the law with those who are called the paperless, who are illegal immigrants. Then I react a little to Holmberg saying that the Progress Party does not relate to the realities. What can you mean by that? Of course, we are dealing with the realities; that is exactly what we are doing when, unlike all the other parties in this Chamber, we come up with concrete measures that would have solved this problem. It's actually dealing with reality. Rather, it is the others who do not choose to do so, which is very well illustrated by the representative Rikvam, who says that you cannot protect yourself from dangerous people. You just give up, and you don't want to use the measures that are needed to protect Norwegian citizens from what should be a natural thing, that you don't have to live in security because you have dangerous people in your own community. This is not, in fact, what the representative Stokkan-Grande says, that this is about campaigning and all kinds of hesitation. When the Progress Party took this up, it was of course, among other things. because we experienced it ourselves in connection with people who made contact, who were insecure, and who did not feel well, because they did not feel safe in their own community. Only when this person was sent to Finnmark, and then forwarded to Lenvik and to Finnsnes, did we receive messages from people who were concerned. In fact, the Progress Party is more concerned with creating security for the citizens of this country than with problemating matters in relation to international conventions. Of course, this is not the case, as the representative Stokkan-Grande tried to make it, that the Progress Party is not to be trusted because we want to make changes to international conventions. Anyone can do that. It is necessary to adapt the Conventions to a new reality. The refugee convention from the beginning of the 1950s is out of date. It should be renegotiated. EMK has elements in it that should be renegotiated, and then perhaps when dealing with conventions, reservations should be taken to a much greater extent, as other countries do. In Norway, too often we choose to swallow raw stuff coming from international conventions. In fact, there is a danger that this room will be able to decide in relation to its own law. But obviously no one else sees that issue. In the case of Dryersdal, she's having a problem with the death penalty. [[The President clubs.]] If Osama bin Laden were to appear in Norway, Norway with today's system would not have the opportunity to return him or send him to the United States to get him punished there. [[The President clubs again.]] There must be a cross of thought for this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e412	The President requests that the speaking time be respected. The President is also not sure whether the word 'doubt' is a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e417	Kari Lise Holmberg was tired of individual ships. It was an answer to Bjørg Tørresdal. This case concerns a single cable. That's what's the starting point for this case. Every time we deal with these kinds of issues, the Right Party and the Advance Party don't accept that this applies to some individuals, but if we deal with and discuss issues about people who have been denied their application, and we're occupied with those fates, then it's going to be an individual. But when it comes to this matter, it's not an individual. The starting point is a single cable, so it's easy. The debate has shown that at least we are able to stick to the principle. It has also been largely decent what has been said from this pulpit – until the last post. When the Progress Party calls for detention, for people to be interned, and that the obstacle here is the European Convention on Human Rights, that is part of the truth. But the fact is that we have Norwegian law that prevents that kind of incarceration, and that must also be the case with the Progress Party. When the Progress Party calls for the detention of people with mental disorders or what it may be, does the Progress Party also believe that Norwegian Northmen with mental disorders who may represent a threat to themselves or to others should be able to internalise, regardless of the law on mental health protection and regardless of criminal law? So are they just to be picked out and internalized, or should there be separate rules for asylum seekers, for immigrants with mental problems? It is a little important for the Progress Party to be clear on whether or not it is largely a matter of asylum seekers, immigrants with mental problems, who can represent a threat. Inclusion is, as I said, not only a question of the European Convention on Human Rights, but also of Norwegian criminal law. The Progress Party must be able to deal with it. Then to Trine Skei Grande. I think she made a good point. I also think that what we're concluding with, and what the majority say in their comments, in many ways, is a call to the Government to do that as, among other things. is in the proposal from the minority and has now been converted into a transmission proposal. I'm happy about that, because there's no reason to disagree with the content of that proposal, and I expect government and department will continue to work with, among other things. the questions raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e428	I would rather tolerate the representative Holmberg and the representative Amundsen being tired of hearing me talk about the paperless. For me, it is much more serious that the paperless immigrants around Norway are getting tired of waiting for a humane life. The large group consists of many different people with very different backgrounds. I've never said that I'm proposing an amnesty for this group, that there should be an automatic in terms of stay. No, someone doesn't have the right motives to be in the country. Those who commit criminal acts besides just being here, those who break the law in relation to burglary, ransack and violent crime, we're going to send out. It's not automatic I'm asking for. I ask for a new assessment, where we can put emphasis on long-term living in the country, that they have done a job, and that they master the language. Christian People's Party will not break the law. It is we who make the laws, and if our laws are not complete or need to be amended, it is our responsibility to do something about it. We've done that many times before. We have done so in relation to groups in our own country. We've seen that our law was wrong, and then we've changed the law. So it gets a little weird when the council asks if the Christian People's Party is interested in breaking the law. No, I'm proposing a new law – a new law or a modified law that makes it possible to make a new assessment. Why does it sound as if the Christian People’s Party are the only ones in the world who have come up with it? Spain and several other European countries have done so. The Spanish Minister of Labour said this was successful. President Bush has proposed to do that for 12 million people in the United States. We're not talking about two-three Northmen, but we're talking about 12 million people in the United States. He's resisting, but he's working to get a majority. The debate is going on in the U.S. election campaign. It is important that we take responsibility, and on the basis of human dignity, the law changes if some people can get a better life. These people are not a threat to Norway. In fact, they can be an enrichment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e441	This is going to be a little bit special. The representative Tørresdal first stands up here and says, "No, the Christian People's Party doesn't want amnesty." We want a so-called reassessment. And then she refers to examples, to Spain and to what is being discussed in the United States. But it is precisely amnesty that is introduced in Spain, and it is precisely amnesty that is being discussed in the United States. Now the Christian People's Party must decide what they really mean in this matter. What they mean is obviously to reward people who break the law. It does not put the Progress Party behind it, and fortunately the Council of State has not done so far either. It can't be that you have to reward people for not complying with the decisions taken and breaking Norwegian law. You don't have to reward it, and it should be a matter of course. It is sad to see that the Christian People's Party has not understood it. So the representative Rikvam from SV tries to make a big point of this with propriety. He's trying to produce what the Advance Party is doing, as indecent. In my experience, when you run out of arguments, you start to describe the opponent in negative order. I interpret this as the fact that the representative from SV does not have very many good arguments to come up with. What is at least the case is that when you refer to the fact that there are not only international conventions that stand in the way of detention, but also Norwegian law, you don't take into account the fact that it is actually this hall that adopts Norwegian law. Of course, there has to be a change in the law – to the extent that there are legal conditions that prevent it today, and that is the case. That is why the Progress Party has tabled several representative proposals on this subject. It is, of course, necessary to amend the law, in which case it is fully possible to use detention as an instrument for asylum seekers. These are asylum seekers we're talking about. The representative of Rikham is trying to make a point of discriminating between asylum seekers and others by using closed asylum facilities to persons with unstable mental health. The point here is that you have to have a further basis for who is to be placed in closed reception. Of course, it should apply not only to people who have a mental health that allows them to represent a danger, but also, of course, to a number of other groups – identityless, people who are considered to represent a danger to the security of the state, etc. So it is not just about this one group, but it is a general measure that is absolutely necessary to put asylum seekers in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e452	Through the debate in the Chamber on this matter, we have been illustrated what the dilemma is. And this is where we're going to crack in absolute all directions, depending on the kind of angle of incidence you have to the question. The party of progress accuses me of not taking their commitment seriously. Well, I think the Progress Party is honest in its commitment, but the motivation for using the procedure that was used in May was probably strongly influenced by a rushing election campaign. I think Per-Willy Amundsen will admit that. Our job on a question like this is to provide security for the inhabitants, security for the residents in reception and help for each one who needs our follow-up. This is about individuals, so it must be possible to discuss individual ships and in this way see whether we can change both the regulation and the framework around them to ensure greater security and achieve the objectives we have. Through the debate and through the speeches by Per-Willy Amundsen, the Progress Party has demonstrated the extent to which there is a lack of coherence in the reasoning. On the one hand, they say that they support and will deal with all international conventions Norway has concluded, and on the other hand – in all matters we are discussing in this area – there will be proposals to break precisely the international conventions. It's going to be interesting to see, as it approaches the next choice, how in the world the Right Party and the Advance Party will be able to agree on a common platform in this field. Will the Progress Party lose the matter of renegotiating international conventions, or will the Right have to swallow it? Does the Right-wing Renegotiation of International Conventions with the Starting Point of the Advance Party support? And it's going to be extra interesting to see how the Christian People's Party can fit into this picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e463	We'll probably start gradually getting away from St.meld. No 37, but I still feel the need to make some comments to the representative Tørresdal's posts, where she says that the Christian People's Party is not too amnesty. It's clarifying, although I agree with Amundsen that the examples she uses go on amnesty. But the Christian People's Party is not too amnesty because “some people don't have the right motives to be in the country” – to quote the representative Tørersdal. What the Dryersdal insists on, and what the Christian People's Party believes, is that the law must be amended so that those who ask for it can have a new assessment. But that's the way the law is today. One can promote a desire for transformation at any time. So in the case of all those who meet Tørresdal, who are illegal here, and who have not respected the expulsion decision, the law is so out of date that they can promote a desire for transformation. You don't have to change the law to do that. It's just doing it within today's law. The Drørsdal must probably think that when they promote the desire to convert, then the time they have been here illegally will speak to get them here legally. In that case, it is a change in practice. It then touches on a core point of foreign policy: if you live in hiding after the final rejection, learn Norwegian and are here for x number of years, you have even contributed through illegal activity to legalising your stay. In practice, I believe that this is the end of immigration policy. We don't have to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on a foreign directorate and a foreign student to assess who should be staying, and who should not have it, if it's such that, independently of the result, you can even do your own business after any refusal to provide you with your own residence basis. Instead, we need to spend all the millions we spend on having a foreign directorate and a foreign student to help make sure that everyone who comes here is allowed to stay. It's allowed to have that position. But then I think you have to be clear about it and say that the Christian People's Party is a party that thinks we should have free immigration. And then we get to meet it as a basis for debate, and not through such a clever reasoning, because in practice it's what the Dryersdal now argues for, free immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e472	Bjørg Tørresdal has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e475	It's hard in 1 minute to explain what I really want. I want to change the law so that no one can be long, beyond a certain period of time, in Norway when they are so called unreturnable, that there is a limit to how long you can be here. It is quite right, as the Council of State said, that I want a new assessment where the weight of living in Norway can be attributed to – it is not done today. If you're willing to change the practice in this area, I'm open to it. However, when we are now considering the proposal for a new foreign law, it may also be to amend the law so that it should not be prohibited to help those who are here illegally. That's when I think about humanitarian aid in particular. I would like to come back to the Council of State with a lot of good advice on how the law can look, so that we can give a more dignified treatment to those who today live in hiding in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e482	Kari Lise Holmberg has also had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e485	First, I would just like to stress the importance of a consistent immigration policy. Then I'm going to go to something completely different. In his reply to my reply, the Council of State had a history description that I find necessary to correct. I'm asking the councillor not to forget that when Erna Solberg became municipal minister, we had a rather chaotic relationship in the field of immigration. There were from 12,000 to 18,000 people in asylum queues, and we had large rounds and lots of clearing in the field. Together with the Progress Party, we had 48 hours of trial put in place for those who apparently could handle it, and we divided it into groups. IMDI was also established during our period of government, which has been very, very good for integration policy in Norway. I'm not going to take any credit for what he's doing now, but I think it's gross when he says that the government is doing a lot more than what Erna Solberg did as a municipal minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e493	Rolf Rikvam has also had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e496	I want to go back to the starting point of this case. The starting point is a single matter, a person who represented a threat, meant someone – he needed close follow-up, etc. So the Progress Party – and make it a major point – says that internment is the answer. Intervention is the answer, and to the extent that international conventions in Norwegian legislation prevent it, we need to amend Norwegian law so that we can internalise that type of person. That is the conclusion. Then I raise a fundamental fundamental question: does this mean that we are going to make a law where we are going to internalize people who have mental disorders in general, or is it specifically about asylum seekers? It's important that this be clarified, because it's about basic human vision, it's about privacy and at all events about how we're going to organise our society. If there are particularly asylum seekers with mental disorders who should be able to internalise on this basis, this is – I’m not going to use the word that may seem natural to me, but it’s not pleasant, that word.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e501	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e517	The proposal by the party representatives is in seven points. Among other things, there are proposals to repeal the Finnmark Act, to liquidate the Finnmark property and to abolish the Sametinget. In the Committee there is a broad majority, with the exception of the Progress Party, who say that there is a broad support for the main lines of Norwegian co-operation policy, and that it also indicates that both the Sametinget and the Finnmarks Property were established with the support of a broad political majority on the Stortinget. Nor has it been long since these debates went into this room – it was in the previous period. On this basis, the majority of the Committee wishes to reject this proposal. When we do that, and thus also say that we really do not want to take the debate now, it is because we know that the Government will present a communication on the common policy in spring 2008. Then we will be able to discuss the principal aspects of this topic, which we want to debate here in the Chamber. The progress party has its own comments, and I expect Per-Willy Amundsen himself to explain it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e528	The common policy may represent the Government's worst example of double standards. While in other contexts and in relation to other minorities — and quite legitimately so — the importance of equal treatment for all people is underlined, the common policy, based on a convention, is strongly opposed again. By ILO Convention No 169 have gradually been able to create a system that represents a great deal of discrimination against people based on ethnicity. There's something basic you're about to break, and already you've broken, when you have that kind of policy. I see it as totally incompatible with liberal democracy that there are rules that give special rights and precedence to an ethnic group at the expense of the other members of society. That's absolutely what's happened in Finnmark and eventually in Troms and Nordland. The existence of the synthesis is based on an ethnic understanding of the population. Like that, you have a double voice. You vote in roll-call elections, and you have a double vote by voting in favour of the Sameet. It is a parliament that is gradually gaining more and more power at the expense of the rest of the country's inhabitants. The same fundamental principle is violated by the Finnish Law, where a small minority has power and disposes of land in Finnmark at the expense of the rest of the population. For me and for the Progress Party, it is completely incomprehensible that in a liberal democracy such as Norway can stand for such a policy. I have no doubt that the Stortinget, when it was adopted ILO Convention No. 169 in 1989, did not understand the implications of what was adopted at the time. ILO Convention No 169 is the whole foundation of the special treatment that has been agreed upon together for the past 20 years. It is used in a way by those who have their own interests in this, who undermine the principle of equality and equal rights for all people. The interesting thing is that the ILO Convention is being used, in my opinion and in the view of the Progress Party, in a way that is not really the basis for using that Convention. The Convention is being abused. When you read the English and Norwegian texts, you see that there are two different versions to which you relate. The English text refers to the people referred to by ILO Convention No. 169, as ‘indigenous and tribal peoples’. It is a strange translation when you have chosen to translate ‘indigenous’ into an indigenous population, which is the pillar of the whole common policy. Samer is a native, they're not just a minority, they're something more than that. At least that's the argument of the Council of State. ‘Indigenous’ is native. Then you can discuss whether it's a correct translation or not. What is really bad about the Storting with ILO Convention No. 169 is what is actually implicit – and also explicit – as a result of the Convention, namely that not only are the peoples referred to in the Convention required to be so-called indigenous, but they must also be tribal. It is clear from the English version of the Convention. In Norway, it has been chosen to interpret it differently. If there's one thing that's clear, and I think most people agree, it's that together is not a tribal. This has been fixed by the Samerett Committee. Samemen are not a tribal people today. They confirmed that already in 1981. So that's the way to base the whole policy on a wrong starting point. When Stortinget decided that Norway would accede to ILO Convention No. 169 in 1989, it was done on false premises, based on a crazy translation. Samemen do not fall within the scope of the ILO Convention. As a result, the whole foundation of Norwegian co-policy is – fortunately – gone. The whole foundation of Norwegian common policies, as practised today by the current government, is gone. One thing is that, in principle, one should be opposed to discriminating people based on ethnicity, but one also has no foundation, as the Progress Party sees it, in ILO Convention No. 169. And so it is that, as you have granted special rights, giving rights to co-workers at the expense of other residents in North Norway, only increases the requirements. Every time we deal with the same policy and the annual report, we see it – the Stortinget sees it. You have to have oil and gas, you have to have one and the other, and it's based on the fact that you're supposed to be an indigenous people. I want to say that for me, it doesn't matter whether it was Samer or others who were in North Norway first. We who live in North Norway, most of us have lived there for quite a while, and we have roots back all of us. We have equal rights to that part of the country. It should be breaking no matter who came first, but you don't have any good reason to claim that together was there first. On the contrary, there's a lot of evidence that it wasn't the case at all, and that together actually came after other people's groups. It should, as I said, be totally uninteresting, but that is what you have chosen to base a policy on. I feel pretty sure that this hall will once get the sense of what you're doing with North Norway. Once this hall is going to realize that you don't have to discriminate against people based on ethnicity. I'm sure you'll understand that. Then you're going to wind up the Sameting. Finnmark property and all the special rights that come together are going to be extinguished at the expense of others in this society. I'm absolutely sure of it, because I believe in Storting's insight and the ability to see their own mistakes and make up for them, even though it may take some time. Unfortunately, this is not happening today. The Progress Party is still alone in fighting ethnic discrimination in North Norway. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Today, our proposals are being voted down, but I am sure that that day will come when other parties realize that people cannot be discriminated against on the grounds of ethnicity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e554	Would the representative like to include the proposals in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e557	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e562	The representative of Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e565	We have not become masters of our own house in Finnmark. All the years of the fight for rights have paralyzed our development. It has cost a lot of time and money, both locally and nationally. We have a divided population, and the exotic sense of freedom that has laid the foundation for the quality of life in Finnmark is about to disappear. It's sad. Large parts of the population feel colonized and run over. The Finnmark property was introduced against their will and the will of the Advance Party. The ILO Convention, which Norway has accepted, provides the basis for the discrimination we are experiencing today. The conditions underlying the Convention are not comparable to those in Norway. The Swedes and Finns chose to say no to the ILO Convention. They treat people together in the same line with all the rest of the population. How is it possible to establish ethnic discrimination in a country that is at the forefront of the fight to eliminate injustice, discrimination and racism around the world? Everyone knows that these elements are the root of unrest, dissatisfaction and, in the worst case, rebellion and war. The Finnmarks Act, with its clear focus on the interests of the community, is in no way a balanced law. It clearly discriminates against the vast majority of the county. The Finnmark property is administered by FeFo, which consists of three representatives from the county council and three representatives from the Sametinget. The leader's rolling. There are 45 000 voters behind the three representatives from the county council, all of whom are of course among them. Among the three representatives from Sametinget, there is an ethnic group of 6 000 to 7 000 people from Finnmark. It gives together closer to seven times the influence on FeFo than what a normal Northman has. It's bad when you think about how strongly FeFo affects the development of Finnmark. Who is satisfied with the Finnish Law today? The answer is no one. Who has been better off since the law came into force? No one. Who expects to get better as a result of the Finnmark property? Unfortunately, the answer is no one. The purpose of the law was to facilitate the management of basic and natural resources in a balanced and ecologically sustainable manner, for the benefit of the citizens, with particular emphasis on the foundations of Sami culture, clean-up, land use, nutrition and social life. But it was also the intention of Statskog and the people who for generations have lived by what nature gave them. We've spent a lot of money and energy implementing Finnland property without having clear goals about what benefits the population will achieve as a result of this transformation. What is the goal of the law? It seems that both the Sameting and the County Chest are uncertain about the objective and what course FeFo should take. The Board of Directors of FeFo has been specified. They'll shut up no matter what they do. The control signals from the Velocity and County Council are diffuse and partly absent. In Alta, Syd-Varanger and Hammerfest, the land prices have doubled when the municipalities are going to buy land from the property that we in Finnmark would be mastering. It paralyzes the development of these areas. Market price, says FeFo. But you can talk about the market price when FeFo owns 96 pst. of the land areas of Finnmark? Predictability is gone, and those who might wish to establish themselves in the county are gone. Well-established and well-run municipalities are also affected. They are dominated by outside powers. We believe that FeFo becomes a source of disagreement, and FeFo's power will slow development and reduce the developmental possibilities of municipalities. We believe that the Finnmark property should belong to the municipalities that have the areas. This will provide the municipalities with development opportunities and better and more local democratic governance of resources. Can I draw again for a three-minute post?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e584	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e587	After several years of strenuous processes and demands from large sections of the population, this room discussed a basis for the Sameting. It was in this hall the Finnish Law was passed. It attracted international attention. It gave recognition and strengthening of democracy. It was soothing. You might disagree in course and operating mode, but it's crazy medicine to put down something that's fought over many years. If so, it will create frustration. It will create uncertainty, and the level of conflict would be raised. The proposals of the Progress Party are reprehensible. They focus on the negative. Then I believe that it is much more positive and a more dangerous way to create a good life in what already exists. That would be reassuring. That would be stabilizing. I just want to end by saying that as a finnmarking, I, together with the Socialist Left Party, would rather work for a good life on the coast, life in two hospitals in Finnmark, a good life on the vidda, a good life with the Finnish Law and a good life with the Sameeting – at least until the Dovre falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e598	The President is a little uncertain about using the word 'disgusting' for a proposal, is parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e601	It surprises me a little when the last speaker, Ingebrichtsen, calls the creation of the Finnmark property a strengthening of democracy. As far as I know, there has never been a majority, at least not in Finnmark, for the introduction of the Finnmark property, which in this case is my heart closest – nor for the continuation of the Finnmark law adapter south along the Swedish border and far down into Hedmark. We don't have the opportunity to present maps in Stortinget, but I could imagine encouraging both the audience and those who are involved in debating this matter, to look at the maps used on the Sametinge website, and what is considered to be Sami areas, when discussing these things. I note that the Finnmark property currently manages 46 000 km2. It is one of the largest interconnected properties in Norway, and most likely also in Europe. It is governed by an ethnic composition, a government that is ethnically composed. This has been the subject of both the representative Amundsen and the representative Odden. To call that governance democratic I find very difficult. At the entry into force of the Finnish Law, the then Chairman of the Board of Directors, today the President of the Sameting, performed the first meeting of the Board of Directors of the Finnish Land of Closed Doors. I don't know if State Forest has ever done that. So when the majority in this case is talking about democracy and openness etc., I think you have to get involved in the things you're discussing. What has happened in Finland already today is that the level of conflict has clearly increased: Other off-road industries – which are driven by what may have to be said to be ethnic Nordics – such as sinking, tourism, cabin construction, etc., are opposed to the reindeer industry. The NRK Sámi Radio took up on 24 May this year an example of the expulsion of operators engaged in berry and herb production from an industry they have been engaged in for years. Similarly, Sámi Radio announced on 26 July this year that the farmers have been promised by State Forest for 10–20–30 years that they will buy the land they run, land that was not worth anything when they took over it, land that these people have used for 10, 20, 30 and 40 years to cultivate and create a value of. The Finnmark property now says they will not be allowed to buy. Then I'm happy with one clarification, and it's that the Sametinge has said that they won't be part of the minority in the ownership of Troms and Nordland. Then I expect the Sameting to mean it. They have said this in a press conference on 21 November 2007 and both the parliamentary leader of the NSR, former joint president Aili Keskitalo, and Egil Olli says that they will not be in a minority in the regimes of the Hålogaland estate, which the NSR Committee will be tabling on 3 December. This is therefore a question of Nordland and Troms, and also of Nord-Trøndelag and Süd-Trøndelag. So these are county municipalities with 0.5-1 pst. Sami settlement. An ethnic group constituting 0,5-1 pst. Thus, by the population of these counties, they demand a majority in the management of the outlying properties in these counties. This is an outland to which the Norwegian population, i.e. the rest of the population, has an active relationship. You hunt, you fish, you run out of land, you run out of land, you run a forest, you run a tourism, you build a cabin, etc., and then the Sametinge demands that you have a majority in the board also for the Hålogaland estate, and also in the Nord-Trøndelag and Sør-Trøndelag, Hedmark and Oppland. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party will certainly call it a strengthening of democracy. I guess the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are going to give in to the pressure from the Sametinget this time as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e618	The Sami population has long had the same social and democratic rights as the rest of the population. In addition, they have a number of advantages under the Law on Repurchase Management, in order to operate their primary industry and take care of language and culture. In Finnmark we are proud of the Sami people and the Sami culture. It's a resource that gives us great opportunities in a number of areas. Most of them are ordinary people who want to manage themselves and who want to live in peace and deportability with the rest of the population. They are listed above the resource dissipation that is taking place at the Sameeting, and they notice that the demands of the academic examination for special advantages are breaking down the good relationship and mutual respect that has been between the Samer and the Nordics. When the Sameting was established, it was supposed to be an advisory body for Sami interests. It's become a huge waste of money, and it uses its financial freedom in an ever-increasing struggle for more power and more influence. Other interest groups have no opportunity to promote their wishes and requirements in the same way. Therefore, discrimination is increasing. The transfers to the Sameting are largely administered away, and very little benefits to the Sami population. The establishment of the Sameting was speeding up the process of several special advantages, and Finnmark’s property and Finnish law was introduced against the will of the population. However, the high resistance of the population led to a slowdown in demand and a slight reduction in the specific benefits. This is discrimination against people in Finnmark. Women, finders, schoolmates and other minorities receive little support in maintaining their language and culture in relation to the common sheep. Even the Nordics have a culture that they want to take care of. A Northman with lost school gets no compensation, while ethnic sams get. There are a number of support and establishment schemes for co-workers for whom the North cannot benefit. So big economic advantages are given to an ethnic group. They have their own courts, get their own colleges, etc. This and much more help to create dissatisfaction and division by ethnic dividing lines. Everyone must be able to understand that there is an unsustainable development. Is it possible to reverse the injustice done in Finnmark? The answer is that it's impossible not to. Enlightened people in a modern democracy will never accept such discrimination. You could call it what you want, but it's racism. Lobbying, one-sided information and misunderstandings of minority protection have led us to have a majority that will continue to maintain the Sameting and Finnmark property. It may take years, but we never get a harmonious society in Finnmark until we end the ethnic discrimination practiced today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e635	I record that the Progress Party believes that special rights are granted on an ethnic basis. The previous speaker, Bjørn Odden, has repeatedly used the mantra that Finnmark has special ethnic rights. Not one place has it happened that you have said to one person: you don't get rights, but your neighbor gets because he has Sami blood in the years. Not one place has that happened, and that was exactly the principle that was applied when the majority in this room introduced the Finnmark property. The intention was to separate and grant rights within a geographical area, not on an ethnic basis, for which the Progress Party has given a mantra. Bjørn Odden said in the previous article that you've had the same rights for a long time, but it's not long if you look at it in a slightly wider perspective than you did yesterday. It has not been long since Norwegian Samimen were sent to boarding school because they wanted to remove the Sami language from the public space. You need the Sameting today. The combination provides, among other things: support for the Sami kindergarten in Alta, where Sami children are allowed to use their native language when playing with other like-minded children. The combination has provided a marked strengthening of Sami language. The pooling provides its own grants to students who choose to go to high school in the same way, and this has resulted in a significant increase in the proportion of students in the last few years. The merger also provides an own development fund for run-down municipalities, in particular outlying municipalities that have tried to change from fishing in recent years. The conspiracy is really needed to strengthen the Sami population. In fact, I react when some deposit representatives, for example. The representative of the Progress Party Jan-Henrik Fredriksen uses words as apartheid to describe the Finnmark property and its introduction. So it's not one place to say to one person: you get rights, and your neighbor doesn't get rights, because he doesn't have ethnic Sami blood in the years. I am so willing to ask if the Group of the Progressive Alliance supports Jan-Henrik Fredriksen in that use of the vocabulary?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e646	The President will propose that those who have the floor from now on have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes, and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e649	I have to say I reacted a little to the last post, from the representative of Engstad. It is claimed that what is true of Finnmark’s property is not about ethnic discrimination. Obviously, that's the case. Look at the distribution of persons elected to the Board, and what is in the Statutes! It is not possible to claim anything other than that this is real discrimination on an ethnic basis. The reason why you have voting rights in the Sameting is that you are the same. The whole thing is getting more and more power out of it. There will be new proposals of law from this government that will give them even more power in the time to come. And then you say that there is no discrimination based on ethnicity! It's almost so you can't believe it! You can't talk away from what's real in Finnmark and eventually become reality in Troms and Nordland. There is discrimination against ethnicity. It must soon start to deal with and accept that this is not something we can be familiar with in democracy Norway. Then I was challenged to say something in relation to the fact that Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, our representative from Finnmark, previously called the system in Finnmark for apartheid. Yes, I give him my full support, and I think so too. For if there is a system that smells and tastes of discrimination based on ethnicity, it should be called by its proper name. Apartheid is one term you can use about it, but I know a lot of other terms I would have liked to have taken in my mouth to describe such a system. What is at least the reality is that there is a system that systematically discriminates against people based on ethnicity. I am sorry that there is no way in this Chamber today to do anything about it, but I hope that perhaps the representatives from the counties further south – south of Nordland, Troms and Finnmark – will eventually see the problem. This is not happening today, but I am convinced that that day will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e660	I have tried to stay calm for a very long time, but feel the need to link some comments to the debate. I believe that some of the reasons why we have not now had a wide-ranging debate on the issues of Document No. The first thing that concerns the 8th proposal is that Odelstinget has recently passed these laws, and those who voted in favour thought the same thing as it is now. Secondly, as stated in the vote, a broad, co-political message – a principle message on the common policy – is presented to the Spring Summit, which gives us the opportunity to widen the debate. With the characteristics that are now given in the Chamber, which calls the common policy a expression of ‘racialism’ and ‘apartheid’, I just need to formally state that it is not the Government’s position. On the contrary, we believe that the common policies now pursued are the common policies that create justice in a country where there are two peoples. I have to say that I am sitting in the hall and reflecting on the fact that the Progress Party says that they will now spend all their time and energy inviting for a broad civil cooperation after the big shot in the autumn of 2009. The starting point for the common policies is a very large consensus between the previous government and the current government. This debate has shown that the Progress Party both wishes to terminate ILO Convention No. 169 and renegotiate the European Declaration of Human Rights. If it is defined on the part of the Progress Party as an invitation to broad civil cooperation in the run-up to the elections in autumn 2009, then the other parties just have to stand and look at it, but it is a party calling the policy of the previous government, a racist policy and a policy of apartheid. That's who you want to work with. I take note of it, but I take the strongest distance from the characteristics.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e671	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 834]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e679	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 to 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e760	During the debate, Kari Lise Holmberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. In the course of the debate, the proposal is transformed into a transmission proposal and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government submit to it a separate case on mental health and assistance services for refugees and asylum seekers, including the monitoring of the mental health status of newly arrived asylum seekers/refugees.’ The President will propose the transmission of the proposal to the Government without any rebuttal. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e784	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has tabled seven proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-30.ana.ud1710e852	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
