ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e36	As the representative Sjøli pointed out in his interpellation, asthma is a disease particularly affecting children and young people, causing significant long-term illness. However, there are considerable differences in severity. Most have relatively mild symptoms, while those most affected may experience life-threatening situations and disability. The symptoms of asthma may vary from day to day and throughout life. Diagnosis may also be difficult, therefore the term ‘asthma-like pests’ is often used. But I also want to say that it is important that a person be diagnosed as soon as possible. The example of the representative Sjøli pointed out, a family who had been shown from doctor to doctor without the diagnosis, shows that things are not good enough. According to the National Institute for Public Health, the incidence of asthma is increasing. It shows several population studies conducted using the same methods in the 1970s and 1990s. The incidence is about the same as in other Nordic countries, but lower than in English-speaking countries. Recent figures, however, indicate that the increase in asthma in children in Western countries appears to be stagnating somewhat. I want to stress that regardless of whether asthma seems to stagnate anything, this disease is one of our most important public diseases. Not least, it is serious when so many children are hit. Disease prevention requires knowledge of the causes of asthma. We don't know enough, but we know something about the fact that indoor and indoor pollution, moisture damage, tobacco smoke, dietary factors, allergens or reduced physical activity can play a role, as can inheritance. But we don't have enough knowledge to say that these factors are important for the development of asthma in the population, we need to know more. Therefore, we need to investigate even more in order to clarify the causal factors, which are of great importance in order to achieve targeted prevention in order to prevent so many from becoming ill. But what we can do is at least to prevent seizures and worsening of the disease among those who already have asthma, that is. asthmatics can live as well as possible and as normal without symptoms. We have good knowledge of what is exacerbating the disease, and this is where action can be taken in the first place. Of course, the sickness picture and the factors involved vary from person to person. This means that much of the work to prevent symptoms and disease episodes must be in the patient and his/her family. Not rarely do people go around with plagues because of asthma, and as I said, it often takes too much time before the diagnosis is made. Measures to make the right diagnosis are important at the earliest opportunity, so treatment can be started as quickly as possible – and people will often experience a whole new life. Later this year, the Government will present a national strategy for the prevention and treatment of asthma, allergies and indoor climate diseases for the period 2007-2011. From this year on, the Social and Health Directorate has been strengthened by half a million kroner to work concretely on this strategy. The aim is to show municipalities and other actors what they can do locally to prevent and treat asthma, allergies and indoor climate diseases. Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations are also involved in the work on that strategy, and I propose to have close cooperation and interaction with them in the future. More targeted research will be a priority part of the new strategy. In a small country such as Norway, valuable research is being carried out in this complex area. However, it is important that this research has a financial framework, so that we can investigate any particular Norwegian situation, and also contribute internationally to developing more knowledge of causes of asthma. Norwegian research communities participate in several international projects on causes of asthma and allergies. These include the National Institute of Public Health, the universities of Oslo, Bergen and Tromsø, SINTEF, NTNU and the University Hospitals of Ullevål and Haukeland. An important basis for further research is a critical review of the knowledge we already have. The National Health Service Knowledge Centre is working on a critical review of all scientific literature on the link between indoor climate and allergy/asthma and the effectiveness of various measures to improve indoor climate. Asthma is a public health problem The government takes the most seriously. Further work will focus on improving the knowledge base of this suffering. There is no doubt that children and young people will be a particularly important target group for prevention. I would also like to make it clear that it is important that everyone is taken seriously and met in a proper way in the health care system, with respect, so that one gets the help and follow-up that is necessary as early as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e58	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am pleased that she clearly emphasises the need for more research to clarify causal factors — a knowledge that is once again important in order to get targeted prevention. I am also pleased that she stressed that it is important that such research should have a financial framework and choose to interpret it as meaning a good financial framework. I would like to ask again whether she is willing to earmark funds for this important research. It is true that the Council of State pointed out that we have a good knowledge of what is exacerbating the disease and that this can be done here. I also agree that patients and relatives themselves can do a lot to prevent and prevent the disease from getting worse. However, I think she jumped a little over other conditions that could trigger and exacerbate the situation, especially for children with asthma. I mentioned in my post, among others. the indoor climate of kindergartens and schools, and will again challenge the Council of State in relation to what the State Building Council has pointed out, namely that there is a lack of knowledge in the municipalities that leads to a lack of priority for indoor climate in schools and kindergartens. This is not just a construction issue, but, to the most extent, a political one. I will again ask the Council of State if she will take an initiative towards the health authorities and the politicians in the municipalities, pointing out the need to prioritise a sound indoor climate when building new kindergartens and schools, and when existing kindergartens and schools are rehabilitated. I am pleased that the Government is now working on a national strategy, and in this context, it is important that they go thoroughly into all policy areas and look at a number of actions. It's a question that I want to raise, and it's about patient training in the health regions. Last year, only 12 of the country's 37 learning and mastering centres offered asthma training. In Health Sør there is no offer at all, I have been informed. In Health East, which also includes Oslo, asthma training is given at only two of the 11 centres. The specialist healthcare service is responsible for ensuring that chronically ill persons are trained. My question is then whether the Council of State will ensure that the health care provider takes its responsibilities in this area more seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e76	Firstly, I just want to confirm that the Government takes this very seriously, and that is also the question of indoor climate in kindergartens and schools. This is part of what we are now looking at in the context of the new strategy that we are in the process of creating. Then we look at methods that can reveal what the indoor climate really is — in schools, first and foremost, but there is also a need to do so in some kindergartens. There is no doubt that this could affect the environment of children and young people, even in relation to asthma. So I'm also taking that input from the representative, Sjøli, into this work. On the issue of patient training, I fully agree that when children get asthma, it is very important that parents know how to deal with it, that they know what they can do to prevent, and provide the best possible treatment when something happens — both at home at sea and in kindergartens or schools where kids are, or in other situations. I also believe that learning and mastering centres around part of our hospitals in different regions must be able to play a stronger role in this respect. There is also some of the things we look at in the further work, and I think it is crucial. I think that parents can be safe and know what they should and should do when the kids get sick, or to prevent them from getting infected, is very important – it's important to give them security. There, I believe that the learning and mastering centres should be able to play an absolute role. Then I want to say that we have also taken other measures to prevent asthmatic disorders, for example. in relation to particulate matter in the outdoor air in winter. There is also a question of reduced speed on access roads, incentives for people to use high-quality winter tyres and switch to more clean-burning wood stoves. These are also measures that may affect young people or others with asthma. Warnings are issued if the level of pollution rises in the larger cities. It's also important to know, so that you can relate to it as far as you can. The Tobacco Damage Act and the question of smoking-free places are also important in relation to people with asthma – here we work specifically against pregnant women. I feel that we really agree on the goal, and it also sounds like we agree on many of the measures. I will follow closely the rest of the debate, and feel that it is very useful in relation to the strategy of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e87	As a health sister, I am well aware of the health problems of children and young people. And yes, it's a reality, it's a truth, that asthma and allergies are a big problem among our children and young people. The children have different symptoms, and the diagnosis of asthma may be difficult to stop. In fact, this leads to many children being unmedicated or mistreated, and it's very serious for them. That's why, as the Health Minister says, it's very important to know about asthma and allergies. We need to have more knowledge about the causes in order to prevent this. General practitioners must have sufficient knowledge to make early and correct diagnosis and to facilitate proper treatment. As the Minister of Health also says, economic frameworks are important in order to be able to further research this complex area of cause. We know a lot about the causes, but – as the Minister for Health says – more research is needed to clarify them. This is important for targeted prevention. We have experience that says something about the indoor climate being important for the development of asthma and allergies. Many Norwegian schools and kindergartens have had, and many still have, too bad indoor climate. But fortunately, because of today's government's efforts to strengthen the municipal economy, many schools and kindergartens have improved, and more will. Finally, municipalities have an economy that enables them to start improving their schools and kindergartens. The smoking law has also been positive for those with asthma and allergies. As a health sister, I have a great interest in these children. I have learned that children and young people with asthma and allergies benefit greatly from organized education on their disease — how to prevent and master seizures as well as the importance of proper medication, physical activity and diet. I dare say that many people are under-trained about their own disease, and I will ask the Minister of Health, even though she has already responded, if she has any more thoughts and opinions to improve this offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e100	Exactly ten years ago, this pulpit dealt with an interpellation on the same topic, and all the speeches from that debate are equally topical today. Still, the incidence of asthma among children is increasing, and there is still considerable uncertainty as to why so many are affected. It has long been read and decided that 10 pst. of Norwegian children have asthma. Then a new study is published, and you see that it's not 10 pst. It's probably 20 pst. Several thousand oslo children have been followed since they were born in 1992, and every five of them have asthma. Studies elsewhere in the country also show that the incidence is likely to be so high outside urban areas. Diagnostic cases have increased from 1.7 pst. in 1950 to today's 10-20 pst. Then why is the incidence of asthma increasing? Many are hereditaryly disposed of, but there is no evidence that genetic heredity has increased. What triggers the disease are environmental factors, infections and influences of a very different nature. Children taken at Caesarean intersections may have an increased risk of asthma, but this may be associated with an increased risk of atopic allergy due to the fact that newborns have different intestinal bacterial flora at Caesarean intersections. Therefore, there is a warning against the use of cesarean sections where this is not entirely necessary. Many more premature children with a particularly low birth weight are now surviving. They are born with immature lungs and are at increased risk of developing asthma over the years. This applies in particular to premature children born at Caesarean section. Pregnancy and the first period of life seem to be important for the future development of asthma and allergies. It is also known that childhood stays increase the risk of respiratory infections in children, and it has been shown that kindergarten children get asthma more often than other children. If that's right, we'll be able to expect a further increase now that all children are going to have early in kindergarten. In early childhood, the incidence of asthma is one and a half to two times greater in boys than in girls, but this difference is opposite post-puberty. The reason for this gender difference is not known, and it is not easy to find any logical explanation for this. It is known that smoking and air pollution from, among others, cars, fires and industry are harmful, and lung disease is particularly vulnerable. Carpet floors were popular for a time, but now most are aware of the dust problems, especially if there are asthma and allergies in the family. Moisture damage with mould growth in cellars and wet rooms enhances symptoms. But what about ventilation systems in public buildings and housing? Does cleaning of channels and switching of filters occur frequently enough? In many cases the fresh air is drawn from a ceiling where there is no fresh air but dust. A lot of rehabilitation work has been done at schools and kindergartens to improve indoor air and also to remove moulds and moisture damage, but this has obviously not resulted in fewer asthma cases. The diet isn't the first to hit you when you think about asthma. But it is known that breast milk is good for infants when it comes to prevention, and for the larger children, omega-3, for example. tears, and fruits with antioxidants are of importance. It is therefore important to evaluate the diet of children in the context of asthma studies. This is often neglected. Health centres and school health services, which are mentioned here, must have good knowledge in order to give advice to parents and to the school for the rest. There is a need for new diagnostic methods for chronic lung disease in children, claims superior Dorlachter at the Hospital Østfold HF. It is important that children are diagnosed early and that treatment can start as early as possible in the development of the disease. This can be achieved by using HCRT, a form of image diagnosis that shows lung damage even if the lung function is normal. The method is used in part abroad, but only to a modest extent in Norway, which should be changed as soon as possible. The example of Sonja Irene Sjøli here shows that there is a need for it. Researchers do not know enough about the causes of the increase in incidence, and there is still a great need for further research in this area. The Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations have established a priority list, to which Sonja Irene Sjøli referred, and it should support the Government and all the parties in the Stortinget. But it does not help with a national strategy if it is not followed up by the necessary means. Many environmental factors can be improved, but it is not possible to remove all sources of discomfort and disease in allergy sufferers and asthmatics. We know that very many in the years to come, will be totally dependent on good medicine to cope with everyday life. It is therefore important that the availability of more and more non-adverse medicinal products is improved. Then we'll see if a similar debate in ten years' time can answer whether we'll be able to reverse this trend, so that fewer people will have asthma in the coming years, or whether the numbers will continue to increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e136	It is of great importance that the interpellant focuses on this important topic, when new studies reveal that as many as every five children have asthma. Increasing the efforts to prevent asthma through a national strategy is a useful tool, including information on risk factors for developing asthma and focusing on more research. In particular, efforts to prevent asthma need to focus on environmental factors such as smoking, air pollution and poor indoor climate in housing, kindergartens and schools. The Council of State was in its last article dealing with these factors. In particular, I would like to focus on the need to focus on measures to reduce air pollution in the context of efforts to prevent asthma and reduce pests. The quality of the outdoor air means a lot, because the outdoor air is the source of the fresh air inside, and it is important during the periods you stay outdoors. Outpatient settings that reduce the possibility of being outpatient significantly impair the quality of life. Both the lesser degree of freedom and the lesser extent of physical activity are unfortunate. Local air pollution has a decisive impact on daily life for many people with asthma, according to NOU 2003:14, Better municipal and regional planning according to the Planning and Building Act II. In cities and agglomerations, cold days with low wind and high traffic will increase the concentration of gases and particles in the air. NO2, from e.g. combustion engines of older cars can contribute to increased air pollution. In Norway, the exhaust gas from diesel engines in particular contributes to increased local outdoor pollution. Special asthmatics may react to reduced lung function NO2. In addition, the maintenance of cold winter days along with road traffic will be a significant source of pollution. Here comes the largest emissions from old wood stoves. It is known that particulate pollution exacerbates allergic airway plagues you already have. However, the extent to which particulate pollution also contributes to the increased development of allergy remains uncertain, but some population studies point to the fact that particulate pollution can contribute to the increased incidence of asthma and allergy in general. Some studies also show an increased incidence of asthma when exposed to traffic pollution, especially in the first years of life. The Christian People's Party has proposed support for clean-burning wood stoves and public transport in cities and agglomerations through reward schemes. Furthermore, urban and regional planning also needs to focus on accessibility to outdoor areas for people with asthma, through measures to reduce air pollution. In St.meld. No 16 for 2002–03.Recipe for a healthier Norway, the Bondevik government raised the issue of the environment around us. One of the measures at the time was to provide a new asthma prevention strategy based on a revised knowledge base. The Social and Health Directorate should develop this strategy. The Directorate has followed up this work through a strategy plan for asthma, allergies and indoor climate problems, referred to on their website. Various measures are taken together here. It is important that we now move forward, but it is also important that previous strategy plans that have been drawn up are followed, and that they are given money, so that knowledge we have can also be used in further strategy work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e157	I want to start by commending the representative, Sjøli, to travel this interpellation. I grew up in a family where asthma struck everyday, and we were both worried and anxious quite many times when asthma attacks came. I think at least I understand a little bit of what these families are living with to everyday life. I would also like to join Sonja Irene Sjølis in the praise of the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Federation, NAAF, which is doing a great job for a lot of people. This year it is Norway's Asthma and Allergi Association's babysitting year. One of the main requirements of the organisation in this respect is that a national strategy for asthma must be established. Therefore, it is good that the Government is now to present such a strategy, a national strategy for the prevention and treatment of asthma, allergies and indoor climate diseases for the period 2007–2011. The strategy is a continuation of previous action plans for the prevention of asthma, allergies and indoor climate diseases. The aim is to show municipalities and other actors what they can do locally to prevent and treat asthma, allergies and indoor climate diseases, as the Council of State has said. It is good and necessary that the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations are also involved in the work on the strategy. I, like the Council of State, would like to stress the need for further research in this field, so that we can clarify the causes and get targeted prevention. In addition, measures to diagnose correctly are important at the earliest opportunity, so that treatment can be started rapidly. I also want to say that we can't wait for the research results until we do more. According to NAAF, we now know enough to establish that poor indoor climate and air pollution play a significant role, although the causal context is complicated. This is supported by, among others, section supervisor Karin Lødrup Carlsen of Ullevål University Hospital. Environmental problems and pollution are important causes of asthma problems, including: The representative Holten Heimdal was inside. Our government is active and will become even more active in this field. We will introduce mandatory diesel filters from next year, and we are concerned with stimulating increased public transport and less car driving, not least with high-speed tyres. As an ambassador for the ‘Cycle to Job’ action in 2006 and 2007 and as an enthusiastic cyclist, I would like to stress the need for more and better walking and cycling routes and for better city cycling arrangements, especially here in Oslo. A spatial planning that facilitates less driving and more physical activity is very important, also in order to prevent asthma storage and other health damage. The Planning and Building Act should now be revised and more requirements should be included to ensure good prevention and health promotion. We also need to do more for a good indoor climate, especially in kindergartens and schools. It's great that the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli emphasizes just this. Requirements for materials, outdoor areas, ventilation, etc. are important. In an article in the evening post recently we could read that lack of knowledge about indoor climate is the biggest problem in this area. Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations stated that lack of knowledge in municipalities is most often the cause of indoor climate problems in public buildings. Many do not know the «work environment law» for children or the regulations for environmental health protection in schools and kindergartens, as related. The evening post says that children and young people become the losers in public bidding rounds, because the state and local authorities choose the cheapest solutions for new buildings. According to several experts, the indoor climate is sacrificed to build quickly and cheaply. The result is poor indoor climate and unsustainable conditions in schools and kindergartens, which is very unfavourable for people with asthma and allergies, we could read. However, the state’s state’s structural system believes that there is a lack of knowledge that is the main problem. NAAF says it is difficult to understand the indoor climate, and claims that the time pressure in the construction industry is a problem, but that most of it lacks knowledge. This is serious, and I expect the Council of State to look at how we can ensure both that knowledge is improved and that prevention work is prioritised. As a member of the Stortinge Children's Rights Group, I am concerned that children and young people's rights should be guaranteed and that their needs should be cared for in the same way as adults. Unfortunately, we see that children's and young people's rights are not always safeguarded in a reassuring way, and that children's and young people's special needs may be more easily overlooked because they do not have the same opportunity to be heard, nor do they have the right to vote, for that matter. It's unacceptable when it's like that, and we have to make sure this doesn't continue. Then we have to look at the information, at the laws and regulations. Unfortunately, short-term needs and the desire for rapid results and so-called effective solutions are often at the expense of long-term and prevention. We should take a power cap to get an end to that. We can avoid both a lot of human suffering and heavy expenditure by ensuring that prevention always weighs heavily. Sometimes we also have to accept that short-term or less important desires and needs need to be down-prioritized. At the end of the day, I would like to convey NAAF's call in connection with the 2007 Babysitting Year: «The air is for everyone – Turn off the engine when the car is stationary!»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e178	I would also like to commend the interpellant for drawing up this problem. Asthma and indoor climate diseases talk the councils about in town. It leads me to what others too have been in, simply prevention. As the previous speaker said, we have seen that the media, not least the evening post, has taken up this with the indoor climate in kindergarten and school, i.e. buildings that are essentially a public responsibility. Not least because of this, there is an interesting paradox – perhaps not so interesting an introduction – that the public, those responsible for public health, cannot focus enough on good ventilation systems and choice of building materials when they build for our children. I think it's right what has been said here about knowledge being too bad, but I think the most important thing is that one has focused on something else. As the previous speaker said, Ein has focused on the economy. One simply does not have an open eye for the long-term solutions for health, not least for our children. It's not just an asthma that gets in the way when the indoor climate gets bad. You can create a long list: headache, skin condition and allergic reactions. Not least in a school and nursery situation, this will result in poor concentration and a poor working environment for those working there. So the debate today has shown that the issue raised in this interview is still highly relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e187	I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think it was important to get such a debate here in Stortinget, and I think it has been very many good posts. I think that's important because it makes us aware of the challenges that the individual affected by asthma has, the societal problems that it brings, and not least the responsibility that politicians have to bet on a broad range of research, knowledge development, prevention and a better indoor environment. I fully agree with the representative of Thorkildsen that very much can be done, especially in the big cities, to improve the environment for everyone, but especially perhaps in relation to this group that we are now talking about. I am also pleased that there is a broad political consensus to bet on a national strategy, and that there is also agreement to significantly increase research efforts. Asthma is a serious burden on everyone who is affected, but it is also a major social problem that many people have faced. In fact, calculations show that asthma-related plagues cost society $10 billion a year. It makes it clear that increased investment in several areas mentioned will be an important and good social investment, but also, of course, a good investment for the individual. So I look forward to the announced National Strategy Plan as mentioned by the Council of State, which has been one of the demands of the Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations. I hope, however, that the department of this work also looks at the outdoor climate, including. pollution, which was also addressed by the Council of State. As politicians, we have a great responsibility to ensure control of the harmful environmental conditions that can trigger the disease. It is a demanding task that requires considerable efforts in several policy areas, which I have also discussed in the past. I might have hoped that the Council of States had more problematized this in its statement, but I have understood that this will be part of the work on the national strategy plan. I hope that through this debate she has also received many good input that she can take with her in the work. However, I believe that several of us would like to contribute to the work of the national strategy, and I would like to ask the Council of State that we be given a statement on this work in relation to the budget for the autumn, and that the Stortinge will have an opportunity to contribute before the final strategy is adopted. I hope that the Council of State can comment on that and of course also facilitate it. Otherwise, I would like to thank you again for the debate. Now, however, everything remains, most importantly, and there are concrete actions that result from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e202	I agree with the representative Sjøli and others who have said that it is important to do something about both the indoor climate and the outdoor climate. The government has already done a lot in terms of the outside climate, but we have to do more, as also the representative Thorkildsen has been involved. We have a plan for that, not least in terms of what's happening in the big cities, which are very important. As far as the indoor climate is concerned, we are going to meet with the Ministry of Knowledge in the near future to discuss it further, especially in relation to kindergartens and schools. So it's a meeting that's already agreed and that's part of the strategy. Then I agree with what several speakers have also said, that unfortunately there are too many parents and also others who are under-trained. How we are to ensure that more people are trained to deal with that situation, I believe that is a very important part of the work we are now doing. Prevention, of course, is very important. Since we know something about what we can do, even if we don't know enough, we get to do it. But the fact that we don't know enough also means that when we see that the incidence is increasing, we also have to put in even more in relation to the treatment, early diagnosis, training and follow-up, which is absolutely necessary. Then I would just like to say that I agree that there is a lot of value in what has been done in the past with work on strategy plans – it was Holten Hemdal who had in mind it. Of course, we want to pass on what is still valid in relation to what we know today, and that is good in those plans. We're on with it. I think the representative Thorkildsen is quite right in saying that the knowledge about this with indoor climate, not least, and how important it can be, especially for young people who have asthma or are developing asthma, is not always and everywhere good enough. I think you should be very aware of that at a time when a lot is being built – and that's good, that. But you also have to remember that you have to take care of those things. We have dialogue with the Municipal Councils on that, and we need that to focus more on it. Otherwise, it's obvious that we need to do more research. That's something we'll get back to in an appropriate way. I mean – like the representative Sjøli – that there have been a lot of good posts and a lot of good recordings here, and I hear what has been said that a person wants to contribute more. I'll take that with me, and I'll come back in an appropriate way to get it done. I wish that as much as possible can contribute. In addition to Stortinget, it is clear that Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations will play a central role in the design of this strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e220	That is when the debate is on case No. 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e226	The size shall then be added to the case No. 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e234	During the debate, 34 proposals were presented. It's proposed no. 1 and 2, by Ingreigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 3–6, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Proposal No. 7-9, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 10, by Ingreigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 11-30 and 34, by Mr Öyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats). 31 and 32, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right and Left Amendment No. 33, from Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of Right Proposal No. 1–33 has been included in the configuration, while proposal No. 34 is distributed in the representatives' seats in the hall. Gunvor Eldegard – for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e263	Proposal No. 34, from the Progress Party, which is distributed in the representative offices in the hall, is very similar to what the Government has warned when it comes to the Government's new nutrition funds. However, we will deal with this in the context of the 2008 state budget, and we will certainly come back to it then. Since the Progress Party does not want to pass on what I have asked for before today, we must choose to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e268	We start by voting on proposal No. 31, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision authorises the Government to sell its ownership interests in Entra Eiendom AS to 0 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e283	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 11-30 and 34, except for: 16 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e416	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 33, from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e436	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 32, from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e456	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The cancellation empowers the Government to quote Entra Eiendom AS on the sale of shares or on a share issue so that the State’s holding can be reduced to a minimum of 34 pst.’ The President expects that the Right and the Left now want to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It'll be nod.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e473	There will be a vote on proposal No. 16 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by decision of the General Assembly of Entra Eiendom AS to follow a strategy to keep the company’s rental of properties to state authorities at a minimum of 92 pst. by the total property portfolio.’;» The President expects the Left to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It'll be nod.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e492	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 7–9, from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e522	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 3-6, from the Progress Party, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e558	There will be a vote on the proposal No. 1 and 2 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e594	In Case No. 2 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e602	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Petter Løvik on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2 and 3, by Kåre Fostervold on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal No will first be voted on. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e635	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to review and simplify the rules for compensation for floods, racial and natural damage with a view to increasing non-discrimination and to greater financial responsibility when municipalities are disproportionately hard hit.’ The President expects the Progress Party now to support the proposal in a subsidiary way. - It'll be nod.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e663	In Case No: 4 and 5 do not present a voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-17-2.ana.ud2515e674	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed.
