ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e22	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e25	On behalf of the representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Per Sandberg, Øyvind Waksdal, Solveig Horne and myself, I would like to propose to clarify that limitation cannot be invoked by state authorities in cases where the State itself can be suspected of contributing to the retention of essential information.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e30	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e47	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e56	This is, of course, a question for the Prime Minister – there is not much to choose today. I also use the opportunity to wish a good new year. Recently, the question of whether it is appropriate to merge Health East and Health South into one health region has been the subject of debate in public space. In yesterday’s VG we could read that the director of Ullevål Hospital, Tove Strand, wants a merger as soon as possible. She further states that this will lead to huge gains. Minister of Health and Health Sylvia Brustad follows up in the same article by saying: ‘There are opportunities here to make better use of both human and financial resources for the patient.’ The Progress Party is very pleased that the Minister of Health is now assessing such a combination of these two health regions and indicates that the Progress Party has addressed this many times, most recently in the context of the 2006 budget position. The point of progress is that the place of residence should not be decisive for the nature of the health services provided to the individual. At the same time, we know that there are large savings opportunities in the hospital sector, as estimated at between 600 and 900 million. kr in savings by bringing together the Health East and Health South. At a time when the economy of hospitals is heavily under pressure, there is little doubt that this type of savings will lead to increased patient treatment and a better hospital economy. The Progress Party sees the Minister's signals as very positive. My question to the Prime Minister therefore becomes: Does the Prime Minister of Health Sylvia Brustad share the view that a merger of Health East and Health South will lead to large financial savings and therefore a much better patient offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e69	Let me first thank the representative Sandberg for the New Year's greeting. I use the opportunity to wish the representative Sandberg a good new year. Then I'm glad he's asking a very important question, namely how we organize the hospital system in the best possible way. It's good that the Storting is concerned about it, and that the representative Sandberg addresses that question, because it's about one of the biggest sectors – and one of the most important tasks we face as a nation, is how to run a good health service where we get as much health back for the great resources we spend in this area. It is true that the government is now considering new ways of organising Health East and Health South, and there are several models on the table. It all comes out that we have come to a realization that the way this is organized today is not good enough. It is at least addressed with clear weaknesses, including: is known to have two different health regions in Oslo. The Rikshospitalet and Radium Hospital belong to one region, while the other hospitals belong to Health East. I am pleased that the Minister of Health is doing this work. Since she has not concluded, it is also not possible for me to present a final view here and now, but we consider arguments for and against different models. What we want to achieve is that more patients can be treated, and that we get a better use of both money and not least medical and hospital expertise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e80	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer, and we hope that the Storting will be involved in such a process in the best possible way. The problems relating to the division of health regions have actually been highlighted through a number of episodes in recent years by the fact that the exact place of residence has been crucial to the nature of treatment received by individuals. Among other things, there have been considerable differences in the number of medicines received by persons with the same diagnosis in the different health regions. In the view of the Progress Party, this is due to the inequalities between health regions in relation to the economy and the requirements for saving. The Party may not accept such discrimination. The Progress Party will then also refer to the economic distribution of imbalances between health regions. The fact that in some parts of the country, residents live in health regions that are heavily underfunded makes it apparent, at the discretion of the Progress Party, that Norway needs to be brought together in one health area. My follow-up question to the Prime Minister will therefore be: Does the Prime Minister also see in this process the need to bring Norway together to a health area where the individual's residence is not crucial for what offer is received?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e89	The overall aim for us is to ensure that patients receive the best possible treatment across the country, regardless of where they live. The system of free hospital choice is a contribution to it in the sense that patients can choose to be treated in hospitals outside their country. What we are doing now is looking at two regions – Health East and Health South – if it is possible to organise them better. Different models are being considered. The main point is that we have good experience with the state acquisition of hospitals. An increasing number of patients are treated, and waiting times have decreased. But there are still problems, still waiting lists, and we have to try to do something about that. Choosing the Health East and Health South solution is linked to the 2001 hospital reform. It was not least Tore Tønne and John I. Alvheim who were architects of that solution. Now we see that there is a need for a revision. We're going to review that review to get an even better solution than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e96	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first No pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e99	Once a pattern has been created to begin with wanting a good new year, it's mandatory to join it, so you shouldn't be suspected of anything. The merger of Health East and Health South was raised in the budget procedure of the Grand Duchy just before Christmas. [[Laughter]] It was originally a proposal from the Right, with the support of the Progress Party. The government parties asked that it be converted into a transmission proposal, because one did not want a vote for and against it there and then. We did so, and the Council of State assured that the proposal for full aggregation would be followed up quickly and with a serious assessment. I'm going to limit myself to showing that both the top administrative directors of the two heavy university hospitals and the top medical professionals, at the latest today at Kaare R. Norum and Stein A. Evensen, with great emphasis, say that this is an over-modern reform, and that it will be a step forward both professionally and resourcely. Can we expect the Government to come back to Stortinget in the immediate future with the result of its assessment? When could that happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e110	For the sake of safety: Happy new year also to the representative Wage! [[Laughter]] I can also bring all the other deposit representatives, so no one is forgotten. Then it's done. This is a very big case, as the Statoil-Hydro merger is a big merger. That's, as far as I remember, something over 30,000 employees in Statoil. There are 110 000 employees in Norwegian hospitals. That's $70 billion in appropriations. So it's about very hard resources. Only in Ullevål Hospital there are about 8 000 employees and a budget of 6 billion kroner – in that order. So how we organize this is of great importance. The government has worked on this since before Christmas. We look at different models and will come back to Stortinget as quickly as possible. But we're in the middle of the process, and we're not going to spend more time than we need.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e117	Thanks for the nice New Year's Eve! And so do I! [[Laughter]] Welcome back to Stortinget for a new work session. It worries me that the Prime Minister does not immediately reject a full merger between Health South and Health East. I would almost say that the Prime Minister in his time was also the father of the five health regions. My wish and hope had been that the current evaluation had been awaited before changing the basic structure of healthcare companies as such. In this case, this will become a regional giant – more than half of the country’s population will fall below such a giant – even now just before the regional reform really starts. Many trade unions have protested against this. It's all right that you want to coordinate more in Oslo. I get that. But I'm worried that you're actually considering merging these health regions. My question is: Will the Government add to a democratic process, where both employees and users are heard, before structural changes are made, and will it wait for this to not take place before the evaluation is available?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e127	Still good new year – to everyone! We will not promise to wait until the evaluation is completed, because it is about the whole basic structure of the reform. We believe that it is possible to implement adjustments and changes within the structure we have today before the evaluation itself is completed. We have done something, including: to ensure increased popular participation in the regimes. We also believe that adjusting the boundaries of health businesses may be possible before the evaluation. It's in line with what we said in Stortinget before Christmas. I believe it is wrong to reject one model. We are now looking at many models, different solutions, to improve the management of hospital services across the South and East countries. It is a problem to use resources too poorly — having heavy hospitals, such as the Radium Hospital and the Rikshospitalet, located in a health business area other than for example. Ullevål hospital. I think everyone agrees on that. So continuing with today's system, I think most people don't think is a good solution. So the question is, what is the alternative to that? We will discuss this, inter alia: with employees’ organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e134	The President believes that everyone in this room has now realized that everyone in this room has mutually wanted each other a really good new year for 2007. Then we come back to the case in 2008. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e137	I take note of the President's statement on New Year's greetings. Hospital reform has not been particularly successful. There was something the Prime Minister recognized earlier today. Strong forces both in the government and on the right will centralize the outside and place the hospitals right into the state register. The left will go the other way. We will strengthen popular governance and decentralisation. It will give more democratic control and more proximity to people most. The government has proposed a regional reform, which is a golden opportunity to get more democratic management of hospitals. The left says that the health sector must be seen in the context of this reform, while the right will therefore go contrary, with full centralisation to the state. My question is, which way will the Prime Minister go?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e146	I want to go the way that gives the best possible and the best possible health to the people of Norway. It's been the clue all along. How we organise hospitals, what kind of health businesses, what regionalisation we have and what kind of border we have – all of this is to be governed by one goal: that patients get the best possible health care across the country. This may be misunderstood by the representative, but I believe that the hospital reform from 2000 is very successful. It is successful because we treat significantly more patients than we did before. The number treated in Norwegian hospitals has never been higher than today. The waiting lists have gone down, the queues have gone down. But then there are queues in new areas because we are expanding the treatment offer. For example, before we could do not treat people with Alzheimer’s disease. Now we have new treatment methods, and then the new cows come. That's why we need to invest more, use more and deal with more. Then we have to discuss how to organise it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e153	Last follow-up question – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e156	Unfortunately, the draft budget of the Progress Party did not receive a majority. This budget could have resulted in more people in Norway being treated, and the constant proposals for depopulation and changes in the hospital structure, as we see in the media, had been omitted. But I'll leave it. I want to ask the Prime Minister a question. In a situation where we really need the money for patient treatment rather than using it for administration, and when we get such clear signals, among other things. from representatives of the University Hospital Environments and also from the Head of Board of Health East that there is a great deal of money to save by bringing together Health South and Health East, we can only imagine the good effects we could have had by looking at the whole regional structure again and bringing together Norway into a health realm. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to review the organisation so that Norway can be brought together into a health state, instead of the five health republics that we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e163	The model we have today is the result of a broad consensus in Stortinget on the health reform there, among other things. The progress party was there. I think you should be proud of that, because it has given very good results. And then you can keep improving, you can keep reaping experiences and doing things even better. One of the things we see is that the breakdown agreed in 2000 and 2001 is filled with gaps. Now we're looking at how we're going to do it differently, and what we're going to do in the case. Then we are in the middle of an evaluation of the whole reform. Once that is done, the time has come to discuss the more fundamental features of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e170	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e173	Today, the employment campaign «Jobing against bullying» starts. Last year the Prime Minister signed a coup d'état or a manifesto against bullying, otherwise like the former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik. Last year Prime Minister Stoltenberg also stated in connection with the opening of this campaign that he did not conceal ‘it is difficult for politicians to ‘end bully’, but it is very important for all adults to be aware and to address the problem. – The fact that we put it on the agenda is a contribution to bringing it to an end.” A few days ago, LO’s head of staff brought out a human resources conflict in the management of LO. It was brought out into the public room by the LO manager himself. It's a kind of conflict that we're not used to looking at in the public space. The LO manager also stated that her management of the personnel conflict was exemplary and could be a school example for Norwegian working life. Does the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e183	This government is against bullying. We are against bullying in the workplace, against bullying in school and against bullying in all other contexts. We are very pleased with the work the previous government did in this area, among other things. with the anti- bullying campaigns that the previous government started, and that we've followed up. The government has also signed a manifesto against bullying, and we have a close cooperation with many companies and with the social partners to fight bullying. We're going to continue that cooperation. We're going to continue to work to combat bullying in every way and in every possible context. At the same time, I think it is right for a Prime Minister to be clear about roles and responsibilities. It would be wrong for me as Prime Minister to go into a single company and take a position on or comment on a particular staff case, where there will always be different opinions and different opinions. For the assessment of individual cases, the working environment of a single enterprise, we have competent bodies to do so. The Labour Inspectorate is doing that job. They have competence, and they have to assess individual enterprises whether it is LO or others. As Prime Minister, I will not go into a specific case of human resources or take a position on the working environment at a concrete workplace. That would be wrong because of the responsibility and the role of a Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e190	It's quite possible to answer as a party leader. I would like to repeat the question in this regard. But I record that other members of the Government have entered the conflict, most recently the Minister of Culture Giske, who have come up with characteristics such as fabulous behaviour, full faith, etc. – very strong formulations in a conflict that has been brought into public space. The Prime Minister, in Stortinget, has on a number of occasions expressed his opinion on the LO in praise of the law of order, but when a critical question is now raised in the management of a human resources conflict by the head of the LO, a handling that has a norm for the rest of Norwegian working life based on the position she holds, the Prime Minister refuses to give an opinion. Then you can get the impression that there are other ties behind the fact that the Prime Minister will not answer that question either as Prime Minister, as a party leader or as a private individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e198	First of all, I stand here in the House as Prime Minister. Secondly, I have the same opinion as the party leader. I have not entered and commented on personnel conflicts in private companies or other organisations, although there have been large and small conflicts in several organisations and companies that have reached the media over the years. Then I also believe that it is fully possible and completely correct, and that it will actually strengthen our fight against bullying, that we are concerned with the cleanness of roles and responsibilities, that we cooperate with the organisations, with the parties, in many measures to combat bullying, but that we are concerned about that, for example. is the Labour Inspectorate responsible for assessing the individual workplaces. The Labour Inspectorate has also been involved in assessing this matter. The day a prime minister goes into personnel matters, takes a position, rises to some kind of judge there, I think there's a lot going to be very wrong. That's why I'm going to act as neat as possible, and the neat thing is that I don't go into personal matters in private companies or independent organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e203	The President will allow four follow-up questions – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e206	The Prime Minister is very clear on this with roles and responsibilities, and that can be challenging for the Prime Minister. Because we're not just talking about lo leader Valla here, we're talking about central board member Valla in the Workers' Party, we're talking about the head of the Election Committee in the Workers' Party. We are also talking about the party secretary in the Workers' Party having entered into a personnel conflict in order to seek a position for a person who is employed in the LO. When the prime minister says he's against bullying, we all agree. But today, we have headlines in the media that former workers under a labor party government have also reacted to today's LO leader, and that today's labour party central board member Valla has behaved in the same way under previous working conditions. My question to the Prime Minister is: Is it not problematic to look at the division of roles and responsibilities when you are so connected to the LO?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e213	The answer to that question is no. I believe that it is all the more important that we be neat in relation to the division of roles and responsibilities. Entering into a staff case means, first of all, that you should take a thorough look at all aspects of the case, obtain assessments of the case from both sides, from many others who work there, assess the overall working environment – that is, collect a lot of information, and on that basis you might be able to make an opinion. But a prime minister should neither, nor should, enter companies, organisations, nor parties. I am not going to argue about the personnel discussions that have been in the Progress Party, nor am I going to argue about and decide on the personnel discussions that have been in the LO, but I am going to make sure that we have a law that ensures a good working environment. I'm going to make sure that we have strong work supervision that does their job, and I'm going to make sure that we have a good cooperation with many people to fight bullying. But it is completely wrong if, as Prime Minister, I start to engage in a concrete personnel conflict and take a position there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e218	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e221	Conflicts and harassment at work are difficult regardless of the media profile they have involved. We know that bullying gives low self-esteem and poor physical and mental health. It is serious for those exposed to such exclusion mechanisms. Therefore, for several years, various governments, social partners and supervisory authorities have been working to prevent bullying and to promote an inclusive working life. Would the Prime Minister, in cooperation with the social partners and the supervisory authorities, like to help put a stronger spotlight on bullying in general and on women's right to combine pregnancy and professional life in particular? And how will he ensure that this is followed up in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e228	First, I just want to repeat that I think it was a very good initiative that the previous government took with campaigns and work against bullying, initiatives that had broad support in the Storting at the time, and that today's government has followed up through various campaigns, manifestations and information. I also want to underline what I said when I signed the manifest, that if it had been so simple that one could just ban bullying, we would have abolished it a long time ago. The problem is that there are often more complicated mechanisms, things that are hard to detect. That's why we've stepped up and reinforced the focus, among other things. on bullying in the workplace, and of course also the right of women to avoid being bullied when they are pregnant. This applies in general, but the general view does not make it right for me as Prime Minister to go into concrete matters. We have the supervisory authorities to do that, not the Prime Minister's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e233	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e236	Governments, trade unions and, in particular, LO management have been very involved in the fight against unfairly high management salaries and option agreements, because the signal effect of working life, for income-making, to the tranquility around the workplace is so dangerous. It has been blown into countless red-green bars to prevent such development, and many of us have supported it as well. This is why the signal effects of the labour market leaders are so important. It's in that context that one has to see these questions. I have no reason to go into a personal conflict and say who is kind or bad, but I record that now the brutalization in the workplace has got a face. Taking Valla could be an excuse for many. Is not the Prime Minister afraid of these signal effects – without going into human resources issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e241	There is a fundamental difference here: with regard to what is reasonable and unreasonable management remuneration, the Government has a position and takes a position on it, and has, among other things, it has been formulated through much stricter rules for options. We believe that options are unreasonable, and we have also made stricter rules for options. In the case of a specific personnel conflict, the views and positions of the representative Sponheim will vary. To go in and decide who is right, and who is wrong, I believe it is right that the representative Sponheim chooses not to do so, and on the very same basis I choose to do the same thing as the representative Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e248	Jan Tore Sanner – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e252	When the Prime Minister chooses to act as ‘tuse Birgitte’ in this case, there is little doubt that it may be related to the strong ties between the Workers’ Party and the LO. No one has asked the Prime Minister to be a judge in this matter, and no one has asked the Prime Minister to decide whether it is Valla or Yssen who is right. The question is whether Valla’s handling as an employer is a school example for others. Now there was a woman who thinks she was bullied by the employer, the next time it could be an immigrant. Does the Prime Minister think that in such a situation the Government should not have any public opinion about the behaviour of the employer? I record that the Prime Minister is now pushing the Labour Inspectorate in front of him. Will he ensure that an assessment is made of the Labour Inspectorate, of whether they are acting correctly in this case, and whether they should have entered into this conflict to see if it is actually as it is claimed, that one of the employees has been subjected to direct bullying by the head of the LO?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e259	I believe that the Labour Inspectorate has a very important role to play in ensuring a good working environment. It is also the basis for this government to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate and some of the reasons why the Government has been committed to having a strong and good work environment law. But again, when it comes to entering and evaluating the behaviour of different people in a human resources case — the staff case itself and its handling — information is required, information is assessed and information is provided by both parties. It is not a task for the Prime Minister's office, it is a task for the Labour Inspectorate. The Labour Inspectorate has – at least in the media – said that this matter they want to look at, and I am confident that the Labour Inspectorate will do so in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e266	The size goes on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e269	In Norway today, we have gradually had good arrangements to combine children and working life. But in the wake of a survey conducted by Anne Efskind on abortion and social background, an important debate has arisen. Economic uncertainty and uncertainty often coincide with the age at which women have children, at least if they listen to Dr. Gro Harlem Brundtland, who advises the girls to have children early. They usually do not come under the good arrangements, because they have also followed the call to take a long and good education. While a mother in work gets 80 pst. coverage of the salary for 54 weeks, up to 313 000 SEK, a mother outside the labour market only receives NOK 33 000. There is no more than a little of the equipment you need when you have a new child in the house – and then the operating costs start. The study also shows that in some groups there are more people who choose to interrupt pregnancy than choose to provide the child. The financial assumptions are not conducive to giving birth at an early age. The Christian People's Party believes that economics should not be decisive for whether or not the woman will bring the child forward, and has proposed a step-up of the one-off social benefits for women entitled to birth grant to 2G, i.e. approx. NOK 125 000. Better arrangements for students with children are also important. When Gunn Karin Gjul from the Workers' Party says in the media that it feels like it's too young to be a mother before the age of 25, times have changed since Gro. And when Secretary of State Eye speaks out, the reference to the line of work is quite clear: Parenticide beds are compensation for loss of income – and not bonuses for having children. We do not hear a word about those who are out of work. My question to the Prime Minister is: Have we not now taken an ‘overdose’ regarding the working line? Does the Prime Minister and the Government believe that only women who are permanently linked to the labour market should have children?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e284	The answer to that question is no. There is no doubt that women without a permanent link to the labour market should also be able to have children. Many of them luckily choose to have children, and I think that's excellent. Therefore, the one-off benefit has been increased — not in recent years, but in the past. What is the challenge, and which both the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have been engaged in, is to enable women who are working, to be at home with the child when it's newborn, and also to be able to have more children. That is why we have extended parental leave, where the allowance you receive when you have young children and choose to be at home with them is linked to the amount of income you have had in the past. The previous government also prioritised this, in the sense that it was committed to extending access for men to take out parental leave. It's the same thing: you spend money on those who are active. This government has said that the most important thing we want to spend money on is more kindergartens. It is important both for working parents and for non-working parents. It turns out that even non-professional parents want to have children in kindergarten, at least for a few hours a day. And non-professional parents also depend on the fact that the nursery price is not too high. That is why we have allocated the large amounts to full child care coverage, over SEK 3.3 billion in 2006. There are also large appropriations for this in 2007. We want to do everything we can to achieve the goal of full child care coverage. That's our first priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e293	There are good arrangements for women in the labour market. But based on what this study shows, I think we need to get together and look at the challenges for women outside the labour market in having children. It is also another group in the labour market that has clearly weaker social support schemes than ordinary workers, and it is self-employed. The previous government was in the process of improving the system and equalising ordinary workers and self-employed people. The current government has let this work go in very slow film. Last autumn, the government parties in Stortinget said that the Government will ‘work on improving the social security rights of self-employed persons’. My question is: Has the Government been fine-tuned to its goal now, so that the Prime Minister can say something more about when this work is completed? It is not more difficult than to address the proposal on full equality as the opposition parties promoted in the autumn budget debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e302	The previous government worked on this issue for four years without finding any good solution that it could promote for the Storting. This government has been working on and looking into this issue for a little over a year, and we'll probably look at it for a while. What we're prioritizing is full child-care coverage. Then you just have to figure out that that's what the big sums are going to do in the first place. And then we'll see how fast we can get started with other problems, when the big goal of full kindergarten coverage is achieved. Then I would like to stress that the previous government did not give priority to those who are outside the profession. Cash support was provided, which goes to both those who are in the working life and those who are outside, and is subject to the rights of fathers in the leave system. We need to look at the rights of self-employed people. I understand that it's an important topic, but I'm busy being a prime minister who does the most important things first. It is also important for self-employed people that we get full child care coverage at a reasonable price, and that is what we put everything on in 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e313	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e316	Like the representative Eriksen, we are also concerned. But in the report she mentions, there is another problem, namely that more and more young girls interrupt unwanted pregnancy. We live in 2007, and never has the opportunity to avoid unwanted pregnancy been better than now. Nevertheless, more and more young girls undergo abortion. In particular, this is a major urban phenomenon. The pressure there is to go through something like this, doesn't bother the Progress Party, especially because these are young girls who are going to live with this for the rest of their lives. This means that sexual education, attitudes change measures and other prevention measures must have failed completely. Can the Prime Minister say anything about the Government's intention to take initiatives to strengthen sexual education and to make awareness campaigns to avoid young girls coming into such a difficult situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e323	This follow-up question may have been on the edge of the main question, but it is up to the Prime Minister to comment and answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e326	I would like to answer the question, in order to prevent unwanted pregnancy is an important matter. The government wants to step up work to prevent unwanted pregnancy, because we have high abortion rates, especially among young women and girls. It's set at $25 million. to follow up the Action Plan on the prevention of unwanted pregnancy and abortion. They go to a lot of different activities and are in addition to the ordinary health care, school health and that kind of thing. Thus, the Ministry of Health and Welfare is working on a free-of-charge prevention trial for women of the age group with the highest abortion rate, aged 20–24. The aim is to be able to gain experience and to look at whether even more accessible and free contraception is also relevant in that age group for the number of abortions, the number of unwanted pregnancies. So we step up the work. We are committed to avoiding unwanted pregnancy, and believe it is an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e336	The inquiry referred to by the representative of Eriksen raises a number of important questions for this meeting and for the Government. We see that the statistics over the last few decades show that the average age of the first-born has increased dramatically, one might say. It has many pages, including: that the volume of involuntary childlessness is increasing almost as much. It clearly has a bearing on age. It also means that the burden on health services in terms of the volume of more or less extensive medical assistance to overcome the problem is increasing. It is not without saying that the main reason for this is the financial arrangements we agree with, but it is quite obvious that it is a contributing cause. So the community involuntarily sends out the signal that it pays to wait as long as possible, for the better foothold and the higher your salary, the better the financial compensation schemes will be. [[The President clubs.]] Does the Prime Minister agree that it is not acceptable for young women to focus on the economy and lack of support schemes when deciding whether to complete pregnancy? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e345	The President will remember that there are numbers in front of both Prime Minister and asks how much time you have left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e348	First of all, I would say that the average age of the first-born is increasing, is an expression of a lot of different factors, but one of them is that more women choose to take education. The average age of the firstborn will easily increase as a result. At the same time, I agree that it is important that we have support schemes that make it possible to have young children if you want to. Therefore, the one-off benefit is now at a higher level than before. In addition, support for studies has improved and, not least, the provision of childcare facilities to people under education has been improved as a result of the massive investment in kindergartens in general. Neither the previous government nor the current government has found money to increase the one-off benefit. We've spent money on other things. As I said earlier today, our main priority is now full kindergarten coverage. We'll focus on that in the first place. Then we'll see how far we get in other areas when that job is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e357	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e360	The Left Party and the Labour Party have agreed on a very large number of important gender equality reforms through history in order to increase women's freedom of choice when it comes to having children. We agree with the Prime Minister that kindergarten provision is a very important step to increase that freedom of choice. Now the Prime Minister and the members of the Government believe that this is a reform that is soon to be the target, that it will soon be full child-care coverage. Once the goal of full child care coverage has been achieved, the next challenge must be to increase freedom of choice also for women who actually choose to create their seas for the job, who do not just choose to be a worker. Because there are many people who feel that they don't have the freedom to have children, because they have the lack of rights to the system we've created, which is characterized by being an employee in order to have those rights. My question to the Prime Minister is: Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this is the challenge now?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e367	First, I would like to say that although we are struggling with some unresolved problems in facilitating women who want to give birth in Norway, we have achieved quite a long way. This is why Norway is among the countries of the western world with the highest number of children per year. woman. We have quite high birth rates. That's probably because of a lot of the arrangements we've put in place. So there's still some problems. We need to get full babysitting. That's what we're doing in 2007. Both the previous and the current government have pointed to the rights of fathers as an important area. We want to do something about that. It depends on how much money we're able to figure out that kind of thing. I agree that looking at the self-employed's right to maternity leave is an important topic. I know the details of those arrangements too bad to be precise on what should and can be done, but it's a topic on our agenda that we're going to look at. We're going to evaluate different models and their funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e376	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e379	I want to use my main question to go back to the title ‘LO – Working Party’, but not with the more personal policy angle that the question has had before today – I find it difficult to go into, because I do not have enough detailed information. But all the noise and all the attention around it puts a sharp light on just the relationship between the Workers' Party and the LO, and also on the principal questions. I think principles may be more important than people in this, and that is what I want to use this questioning process to invite the Prime Minister to come up with. Should I help set up a building over the government of Stoltenberg II so far – should I pick out just one, because there are probably more – I would argue that on that Bauta it will be said that the organisational power in Norway has been strengthened at the expense of elected power. This might be true for LO power first and foremost, but not just that. It raises very fundamental questions for me. Now there are a huge number of examples that could be drawn up over the almost half of the years that the government of Stoltenberg II has been sitting on, which could support this. But I'm not going to spend time here. I just want to point out that this whole issue is helping to reduce the transparency and openness of the exercise of power, and it is unclear to what extent that exercise of power is popularly anchored. I would like to recall the words of Prime Minister Jagland at the beginning of this big deal about the need for the role of Storting, in taking care of everyone, including those unorganized. The left is known to be critics of this, on a principle basis. For example, we meet. often the Secretary of the Workers' Party, who blows this and, like, levelles it down to call it party politics, which is unworthy of our democracy in relation to this constructive cooperation. My question to the Prime Minister is quite simply: does the Prime Minister not see any fundamental aspects of shifting power from elected assembly to organisations to which he contributes, and which so many see?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e390	First, I would like to commend the representative, Sponheim, for two things. Firstly, I think it is neat that he says that he does not have knowledge or information in relation to going into the specific staff case. I think that is a neat and correct approach, and the approach you should take to that matter. Secondly, I think it is good for the representative of Sponheim to invite a more fundamental debate on how our democracy should work and how the role of elected bodies in relation to organisations should be. There I believe that our democracy is developed in a very fine and co-ordinated interaction between these different bodies of democratic influence. The power must lie in this room. Decisions shall be taken here. This is where budgets and laws are adopted, and the Government is to be the executive body. But the power adopted here in this hall, and the power exercised in the government offices, does not occur in enclosed spaces or in a vacuum. It takes place in dialogue with different organisations and groups, whether they are environmental organisations, trade organisations, or workers’ organisations. The dialogue with the broad membership organisations and the broad interests represented by the different organisations is also a contribution to Norwegian democracy. For example, when you have: In UN studies, the Norwegian model and why we get many things better in Norway than in many other countries, close cooperation between authorities and organisations is an important part of it. But it must not undermine the fundamental power and authority of the Great Britain to adopt laws and budgets. The most important issue mentioned as a problem is the case of sickness pay. Here there was a very parallel situation for two governments. The Bondevik II Government made proposals for an increase in the employer’s payment. It protested the organizations, and a different solution was found. The Stoltenberg II government made a similar proposal, and we found another solution. So it's not the first time in history that we see things being adjusted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e397	Paradoxically, I think I agreed with everything the Prime Minister said now. And I think that's a problem for the Prime Minister, because he doesn't relate to the actual reality that I think most people see, that it's been a shift of power. Now there are caricatures – and that may well be when I also use the term ‘Minister of State’ about Valla. This is a problem for the Prime Minister. So the Prime Minister needs to say that he is going to take power back and get a certain distance. I thought, after all that happens, that he would use the occasion in today's Question Time to do that, and it can be done in a real way, without getting unfriends in LO. Now we see that the prime minister, along with his two party leaders in the government, travels around and reaps applause in LO meetings, probably because they run a policy LO is satisfied with, and they travel out again with a check in their pocket, as I understand it. Åslaug Haga and Kristin Halvorsen appear more and more as bridesmaids for Jens Stoltenberg and Gerd-Liv Valla. Will not the Prime Minister use this opportunity to say that he is guarding the border so that this should not go too far, and that it may have to kneel a little bit the other way again?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e404	What I'm going to do is we're going to implement the program we went to election, and the statement that this government is making. The main objective of this government doing its job is not the distance from organisations – LO and other employee organisations. The goal of doing our job is to implement what is stated in our government statement. And we do that, whether it's building kindergartens, spending billions of dollars on care and school, strengthening employees' rights through a better work environment law, or that, for example. is to improve the day-to-day arrangements for the unemployed. There are things that many employee organisations are happy about. We think that's excellent. It's in our programs. So there's one goal if we do the job that the voters have asked us to do, and that's that we carry out the election vows. It is an expression of democracy that this government meets the voters, promises the voters something, gets a say in it and then implements the policy. It's not the distance from others that's crucial, that's how much of the choices we're making. And we carry out election vows. That's what we're going to measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e412	Here, too, the President will accept three follow-up questions – first Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e415	I think everyone agrees with the Prime Minister that dialogue – with organisational life, with business – is very important. It has all the parties – a good dialogue too. But there will be something quite different than dialogue when the Workers' Party locally, e.g. in the municipalities, for example the municipality of Trondheim, enter into agreements and contracts with the trade movement. Then one has moved far away from what is dialogue, and into a cooperation that can be somewhat linked to what is happening this year, where the Joint Union has already gone out and said that they will give 1 million. kr in election support for the Workers' Party, SEK 200 000 to SV and DKK 100 000 for the Centre Party, based on the fact that the Red-Green Government will pursue a specific policy within the areas of labour supervision, labour environment law, social dumping, etc. Then you have a contractual relationship, and that's a long way from what's a dialogue. Does the Prime Minister agree that such agreements and contracts concluded are unfortunate?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e422	No agreements and contracts are concluded when wage and salary organisations choose to support the Workers' Party financially in open democratic processes. But what they see is that the Labour Party is responsible for, for example, this policy. good pension schemes, good social security schemes for the unemployed or a good work environment law are policies that serve their interests, contrary to the policies of the previous government, such as: the reduction of unemployment benefits and the weakening of the Working Environment Act. There is nothing different than the fact that when some of the richest people in Norway provide financial support to a part of the right parties, it is because they agree with the desire of the right parties for lower taxes to the richest, among other things. by removing the taxes on wealth. There are different political opinions that receive different political support, in full transparency. This is not contrary to democratic principles. On the contrary, here in Stortinget, we have legalized how this is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e427	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e430	I agree with the Prime Minister that dialogue with the social organisations on both sides is an important part of what we can call the Nordic model. But it's not right what the Prime Minister said in his first response to the representative Sponheim, that power studies show that there is a mix of party power and organizational power that is a prerequisite for this model. It is a strange sight, represented by the Norwegian Labour Party and the LO. For example, the Nordic model works. now excellent in Denmark, where there is no such mixture of power, but where one respects the organisations as it is, on an independent basis, and has dialogue and cooperation with them in full transparency. Earlier today, I asked a question that the Prime Minister refuses to answer, whether he will, on a general basis, characterise the management of a labour conflict. I'll take note of that. However, the prerequisite for the functioning of this organisational model and of the Nordic model referred to above is transparency. Then I will challenge the Prime Minister to be open on one point: Was the Prime Minister informed about Martin Kolberg's request to the U.D. to find a new position for Ingunn Yssen?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e439	First, I would like to say that Norway and Sweden are among the countries that have had close cooperation between social democratic parties and a strong trade union movement. I believe that this is an important contribution to Norway and Sweden reaching as far as we have in very many areas. I maintain that a strong social democratic party, in cooperation with a strong trade union movement, is a contribution to creating the kind of welfare society we see in the Nordic countries. Secondly, I would like to say that characterising a particular personnel conflict on a general basis is a pointless question, in the sense that if you come up with a general characteristic of a particular case, you have given an opinion on the particular case. That is why I agree with the representative Sponheim and disagree with the representative Foss in dealing with the specific matter. I am informed that several parties and many representatives have contacted the Ministry of Foreign Affairs if it is possible to apply for specific posts. I believe it has been a tradition that many parties have followed, and in which I see nothing wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e448	That's not what I asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e453	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e456	Financial support from LO gives them power and influence. The Prime Minister has repeatedly been on the wane front in things where one has had a lot of trouble with the LO. The debate that has been in the media lately with bullying and harassment is becoming quite special because there is close cooperation and sometimes a connection between the LO and the Labour Party. Isn't the Prime Minister concerned about the signal effect when the media are babbling over issues of bullying and harassment? I understand that a person cannot say anything about or go into a personal matter. But the underlying problem is the signal that a prime minister won't say anything about a matter that's illuminated up and down in the media in terms of bullying and harassment. If an error occurs in individual matters, a clear signal can be given. What will the Government do, and what does it think is acceptable and unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e463	I can repeat and underline that this government is against bullying and against harassment and to escalate the work for a good working environment. We have taken several steps to do so. We have both strengthened the legislation and strengthened the Labour Inspectorate, and we have campaigns going on. But there have been concrete personnel conflicts in different parties, in different organisations, and I've never been involved in them – whether it's in other parties, or it's in other organisations. It's from a very clear and clear perception that this is about being neat. I believe that the representative Sponheim has had a neat approach, that we should not go into concrete matters, while other representatives at least are somewhat vague about what a Prime Minister's role is, and whether or not he is going to go into and think about a concrete staff case. I believe that it is important to be neat in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e472	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e476	Since the turn of the millennium, several large and medium-sized vessels have been lost in South Norway. Still others have come in distress and created almost no accident. I mention ‘Green Ålesund’ in 2000 and ‘Rocknes’ in 2004. Both of these accidents led to the initiation of an evaluation of oil protection preparedness in Norway. The evaluation of the ‘Rocknes’ loss led to St.melding. No 14 for 2004-2005, referred to as ‘On the safe side’. While it was being treated in Stortinget, the «Fiord Champion» was in fire in the North Sea outside Kristiansand, and the nearest tugboat with the capacity to haul this ship was in Stavanger, twelve hours away from the accident site. ‘On the safe side’ points to a number of deficiencies in Norwegian oil protection. Coastal works report ‘National towing boat standby’ from January 2006 goes further. Together, these two documents point to serious deficiencies in oil protection equipment in state depots, lack of emergency response exercises, lack of preparedness in South Norway, lack of equipment to rehabilitate beach areas and ensure biodiversity. The last thing we've been given a thorough demonstration of the Fedje voices is pretty good. If this is seen in the context of the fact that there are also significant shortcomings in the digital mapping of the Norwegian coast, it can be concluded that the level of oil protection protection is in no way on the safe side. Through a number of questions and proposals, including the budget as late as December 2006, the Progress Party has focused on oil protection preparedness. It is tragic if it is such that there must be another accident before the government also wakes up and sees the seriousness of the situation. Therefore, I would like to ask this question to the Prime Minister: will the Government now start to follow up on the recommendation of ‘Safe side’ and ‘National Towing Boat Preparedness’, or will the Government also allow this to end accidentally with another evaluation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e485	What the government will do is review the experience of the accident we have now had, and we will take action. But again, it is important that we do this in the best possible way, and therefore it is important that we first see what lessons we can learn, and then apply the measures. Some measures have already been taken, including: in the case of new sailing stages in North Norway and other exposed areas. We also see that there may be a need for other measures, including: in the case of oil protection equipment depots and other measures which may help to reduce the risk of accidents and help to increase our preparedness to deal with accidents. This is a very important work. We have built up oil protection equipment over several years, but technology is changing, and traffic is increasing, and therefore there may be good reasons both to strengthen the rules on the nature of ships, where the member is going to go, for duty of unloading, for quality on maps and for oil protection equipment. All of this is being reviewed, and then we will present proposals in turn and in order for the Stortinget, when we find it right and necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e490	I note that the clear signal I am reading from what the Prime Minister says is that this will end up in yet another evaluation of Norwegian oil protection, which I am sure will end up with a new report from the Swedish Coastal Agency that things are too bad in place, equipment and preparedness are too bad, and I think that is really a pity. It could be tempting to ask if it is such that the coast of North Norway, that is, Troms and Finnmark, is more important to the Government than the coast of Helgeland, Trøndelag and the West. Then I want to quote a document that I assume the Prime Minister is familiar with. It says: ‘The preparedness for oil protection needs to be strengthened, and we need to do more to prevent accidents from occurring and having disastrous consequences.’ Another quote – so this is from the Soria Moria statement: ‘The government will ensure a good towing boat capacity with rapid response time across the coast.’ What has changed since the fall of 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e507	We are increasing security and security. We have already implemented measures, including: fairway, which is important to prevent accidents. But it's not like we're implementing all the measures at the top of a year. We are in the process of taking action, have taken some action, and are considering further action. We also need to follow up the Soria Moria declaration on oil protection and other measures to increase safety at sea, both in order to avoid accidents and to better manage accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e512	Because of what has happened this past week, and because it is time, the President will allow four follow-up questions – first Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e515	The loss of the ‘server’ raises undoubtedly important questions about how best to prevent such serious accidents. Ship traffic outside the Norwegian coast is significant and, in particular, in the north, the number of ships loaded with oil is increasing. We therefore have a great common interest in raising preparedness, in order to prevent accidents and pollution. We don't have weather conditions, and there's a lot of evidence that the weather just gets wilder. We also know that the likelihood of accidents is higher in difficult weather, and it is also more difficult to assist ships with problems in bad weather. The right-hand side clearly sees the importance and importance of getting even more focus on oil protection and oil protection. I wonder if the Prime Minister does not now see the need to increase research efforts in this area, and that even more needs to be done to develop even better equipment to deal with shipping. I also wonder whether it is not now that we should go further in developing the sailing trail along the entire Norwegian coast, and that the traffic centre in Vardø can get a greater and wider responsibility for the entire traffic along the coast.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e522	It is useful to get on the table the kind of proposal that the representative mentions. We are going through many different proposals to strengthen preparedness and avoid accidents along the Norwegian coast. So, as I have already mentioned, we've shifted the route, put it further out into the sea in North Norway to help reduce the risk of accidents, and we've got it approved by the United Nations Maritime Organisation, so that security is increased. So now we're doing the same thing, or at least we're doing the same thing, in the case of South Norway, in the case of Røst and in the case of South Norway. There's a work going on in the Coast Guard, and we might have to get it approved by the United Nations Maritime Organisation. We're not done with that work, but the government has at least taken it on board and is doing well to help increase safety also in the south, if the Coastal Agency recommends it, and if we get it approved by the United Nations Maritime Organisation. In addition, it's important to do a lot of other things, and we're also working on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e533	The Christian People's Party has seen good reasons on several occasions to be able to restore the main depot in Fadje. But I would say that it is a derailment of the debate to make that question a major cause of the accident that has now occurred. There was, after all, some drainage on Fedje, but unfortunately the equipment had expired, and there was extreme weather in the area. There are modern Norwegian-produced oil lances today that can be rolled out of one man and pulled by one boat and operated within 15 minutes. The new lenses also withstand a higher wave height than the old ones, and the coastguard vessels are now getting this equipment on board. But coastal depots are struggling with 15-year-old equipment, and it is said that something is rotting. The coastal body has asked for better equipment on several occasions, and the content of the so-called secret report that the media have recently requested is also likely. My question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister see the need for us now to spend money renewing the equipment in our oil depots?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e542	There are so many reports and so much documentation now pointing to the fact that the equipment we have is not good enough. That's why the government has started a job of looking at what, and how we might be renewing oil protection. We want to do that, but we have to take things in turn and in order and in the right order. It was the previous government that decided to close the main depot in Fedje. Little has happened in this area in the last few years. Now we want to look at what we can do to escalate the oil protection equipment, by getting new sailing managers, casualty duties, etc., but also by strengthening the equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e549	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e552	There was a high level of awareness as the 2007 State budget did not increase the allocations for oil protection equipment or for strengthening the towing boat capacity. I will leave that behind today, but I would point out that voluntary action is also an important part of the preparedness. That's what we see when people from the Wilderness Fund are now doing an important job in the beach stones in Fedje. Last year, the Villlmarksfonds applied to the Government for 500000 kroner for training of volunteers who could be put at the disposal of the authorities. It was a strong wish for this along the coast. Many municipalities supported this work. Surprisingly, the government said no to this support, with the result that many of the planned courses could not be implemented. It was petty, and it was surprising. Can we expect the Government, in the light of the experience we now have in Fedje, to reconsider its position and look more positively at the voluntary response to oil conservation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e560	First of all, I just want to say that I do not believe in our allocation to tugboat and oil protection equipment caused any greater surprise than the previous government's allocation over four years. So to the extent that that alert sight, I think it was just as much or as little as previous years. The second is that we are now also looking at the possibility of increasing the appropriations for oil protection. So I would like to stress that non-governmental organisations have a very important job to do. They're making a fantastic effort, even now linked to the accident outside of Fedje. They get equipment and participate in the action there. Following an invitation from the Ministry, the Villlmarks Foundation, together with the Swedish Coast Guard Agency, the Norwegian Fire College and the Norwegian Oil Protection Association, also participate in a cooperation project in which knowledge training and development are carried out in order to deal with oil accidents. So there's this kind of cooperation going on. If we're going to expand it and grant more, we're going to have to look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e567	Arne Sortevik - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e570	The Progress Party has constantly warned against building down the main oil protection depot on Fedje. The Labour Party has also done so. The Labour Party's Olav Akselsen came to the election campaign in 2005 with promises that this property would be in place in 2006. It hasn't happened. Will the Prime Minister now take action to ensure that we have a main deposit in Fedje? The dramatic event last weekend clearly shows that it's useful. It's necessary, and it's right to have a main depot on Fedje, with the special location that this place has. This shows that the Coastal Authority’s assessment has been incorrect in the past, and it shows that the warnings of the Progress Party have been correct. Does the Prime Minister also agree that it is better to have one oil warder too much than one oil warder too small?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e577	It is true that the Workers' Party was also critical of the decision of the previous government to shut down the main oil ware on Fedje. We're now working on a job of looking at where we're going to have oil protection pots, whether we're going to have more than today, and what kind of equipment we're going to have. Because this is so important, we need to take a thorough assessment of what is the proper use of our resources, and how we get the best oil protection along the coast. At the same time, this accident has shown that the most important thing we can do is to prevent accidents, because when there are high seas, what can often be done with oil protection equipment is limited. That is why we also look at the possibility of changing the routes of navigation in order to help avoid accidents. That's the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e582	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e585	When the draft terms of merger between Statoil and Hydro became publicly known on 18 December last year, Prime Minister Stoltenberg cheered and confirmed that he had worked for the merger for a long time, and that he had had dialogue with the companies in advance. It is also publicly known that the Prime Minister was presented with the merger agreement itself. In retrospect, the debate has little to do with the impact that the merger should have on Norwegian oil policy. Instead, various representatives of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV requested amendments to the Merger Agreement itself on two key points. They don't want Eivind Reiten to be the director of the new company, and they want to keep the Statoil name itself. In the evening post today, the group leader of Statoil Helge Lund states the following: ‘Only the two boards may amend the integration agreement until the final merger agreement is signed.’;» It goes on to say: ‘And if the draft terms of merger are first adopted, it is not possible to amend them at all, states the Head of Statoil. In practice, this means that the Storting has only two alternatives: yes or no to the whole merger.’ This sets the output from Jan Bøhler & Co. in a very strange light. I therefore have two questions for the Prime Minister. The first is, was the Prime Minister aware that the name of the new company should not be Statoil, and that the director should be Eivind Reiten? The second question is whether the Head of the Statoil today pronounces in the Evening Post, meaning that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV of the Stortinget cannot affect the content of the Merger Agreement, but that in practice there is a yes or no to the merger itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e608	This is a very important question. I'm glad of this opportunity to say a little bit about it. First of all, I think we need to clear up a little bit of the process. One reason why we chose to make Statoil a listed company was that Statoil had the opportunity to create these kind of alliances, make mergers. And one of the ideas was the possibility of creating a large Norwegian oil company. I'm glad it's now due to be the result. It's been an idea, a thought that I think has been reasonable for years. The second is that it is true that we had meetings, oral presentations, with the management of the two companies before the publication of an integration agreement. But the integration agreement as such has not been submitted to the Government. It's a confidential agreement. That's not the final merger agreement, and I think that's where some of the confusion arises. What the companies are doing now is that they are working on the draft terms of merger, or what is also called the merger agreement. It shall be drawn up at a later date. They're not done, and it's in the process we have good dialogue and good contact with the government. Then it is true that under the Share Act, the Boards are the ones to draw up the merger agreement, or the draft terms of merger. The agreement shall be submitted to the general meeting and the general meeting shall then have the opportunity to vote yes or no. But it is seen in the debate as if the merger agreement were made. It's not made, it's made now. We have good dialogue with the companies, and we have said in a press release – and I am of course behind it – that we support the idea, the principle, of a merger, but that we will await the details of the merger agreement when they are to be drawn up, and then decide on them at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e619	My question relates to whether the Prime Minister understood that important elements of this plan of integration, which is to become a draft terms of merger, are that Eivind Reiten should be the Chairman of the Board and that the name of the company should not be Statoil. Now Helge Lund, and also Eivind Reiten, have determined that there are no plans for any changes at this point. And then the question of these different plays that come from the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV in Stortinget is pure games for the gallery. It is not that one can treat such a company as if it is one's own red-green toy grinder, it is a company to act in an international market. The manager has previously pointed out that after we got a red-green government, there has been a discount on companies that the state is in – in other words, companies are losing value because red-green politicians are going to go so much into the corporate governance itself. Does the Prime Minister see that the debate we are now having on the content of the draft terms of merger can also help to weaken the new company?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e628	This government has behaved very correctly and correctly in relation to Statoil-Hydro in relation to the particular work on merger. We have supported the idea and the principle of merger. Like all other owners, we shall decide on the merger agreement, the draft terms of merger – which have not yet been drawn up but are now drawn up in these days and weeks – when they exist, and then there is contact with the companies. It's the government that's going to make it, but they're doing it in a good dialogue. We have had good dialogue with the companies about these things. Secondly, I would also like to stress that whether it is Tore Nordtun from Stavanger or Right-wing representatives from Stavanger who disagree with some of the proposals that have been put on the table, for example. with regard to the allocation of group functions to different cities — Stavanger and other cities — I believe that the type of attention, the type of debate, will withstand this process. The crucial thing is that we have a majority government that could set up and contribute to the company's governments being able to present the agreement they made. It was hard for the previous government to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e635	As a result, the President only allows two follow-up questions – first Kåre Fostervold.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e638	We have recently seen many good examples of how an active red-green ownership policy may look in the future, perhaps especially when looking at the media management from the government parties in connection with the Statoil-Hydro merger. The red thread of the red-green ownership policy seems to be creating as much uncertainty as possible as to what state interests really are. Governments in several of Norway's largest companies have to deal with various signals from government parties about management salaries, options, location, board of directors, name selection, etc. Therefore, it may be appropriate to clarify the following around the Government's intentions in the Statoil-Hydro merger: When the Prime Minister has now indicated that the Government will spend an estimated NOK 25-30 billion on buying up to a share of 67 pst. in the new merged company, does he think that these extra tens of billions in circulation could create pressure in the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e646	First of all, this government has a very clear ownership policy, and it is reflected in several documents, among others. in the ownership message, where we are very clear that we are now putting an end to the unfair options we have seen in many companies. It's clear, it's clear, and that's something this government is implementing, but I'm a little uncertain about what the Progress Party really thinks about it. At least the Labour Party and the Government are for it, and implement it. Secondly, this government has cooperated with the companies, so that it has now started, well started, to create a large Norwegian new oil company. It hasn't worked out before. We are happy that we are a government that can participate in that process. It is a strength to be a majority government when talking to companies about the type of large, controversial projects such a merger. There's no reason to be unsure about what's the main point: getting a merger. We're doing a good job, and we're having a good dialogue with the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e655	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e658	It is quite correct, as the Prime Minister Net said, that in the ownership message, the Government has formulated several reasonable principles of good ownership and not least our clear and clear definition of the role of owners and their role. But after seeing various big politicians from the government party close to being released in the newspaper columns in recent times, I have some doubts as to whether they are in agreement with and some in the same principle. So my question to the Prime Minister is: does the Prime Minister see the representatives of the Government Party who have expressed themselves in full public opinion about the design of the top leadership of the new company, as part of the Government's parliamentary basis on the Stortinget? If the answer is yes, then it is entirely unproblematic that these props to spread doubt between the adders, owners, etc. on the merger agreement, in fact, indebtedness? Or does it matter to the Prime Minister what the support players at Stortinget have to say about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e665	The important thing for me is that I am absolutely sure that the companies and the companies are at all in no doubt about what the Government believes. We've had a very good dialogue all the way. A contribution to this is that we are a majority government, so that we are sure that we have a foundation for the process that has been conducted and is now being conducted, because they are not finished with a final merger agreement or a merger plan. That there may then be different opinions in several batches, including in the opposition batches, for example: on a central point such as the location of group management and functions is a discussion/different views that this process tolerates, as long as the Government is clear and clear to the companies, and that is the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-17.ana.ud2489e670	The oral question procedure has now ended, and the current map has been completed. Does anyone require the word under § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
