ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e26	There are two requests for leave: from the Group of the Party of the Left on study leave for the representative Heikki Holmås from 28 November to 30 November from the Group of the Party of European Socialists on sick leave for the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen from 29 November until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and granted.2. The representatives of the goods, for Finnmark County Bjørn Sturla Odden, and for Oslo Ingunn Gjerstad, are invited to meet during the leave period. Ingunn Gjerstad is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e59	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e62	It is a pleasure to be able to make representations from Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse M. Smidt and myself to do written exams in side goals optional.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e67	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e87	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Åslaug Hagastatsråde Anne-Grete Ström-ErichsenState Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen The announced government councils are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main question, from the representative Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e106	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. In the VG on Saturday we could read about a Somali infant mother who has been divorced and who has lived alone for three years, but who, upon application to NAV for transitional aid and double child welfare, who has a claim as a lone parent, is denied – is denied – the same benefits, because the NAV office indicates that her imam does not consider her to be a divorced Muslim, Islamic law. It's a very funny situation that after Islam you know that one is not considered a sign until the man has repeated it three times, and the woman has no right in that way. It's very special. We're moving some boundaries in this society if that's the way we're going to have rights in Norwegian society based on which religious minority you belong to. This is about putting down absolute borders and absolute barriers and saying clearly that there are no other legal rules, regardless of their cultural background, than those that apply to all citizens of this country. We have a law that applies in the context of divorce, and that should be what should be decisive in terms of entitlement to single-parent benefits. What has the Council of State done specifically in this matter, and what will he do to avoid similar matters in the future? This is about demonstrating the power of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e118	Let's start by saying that for once I agree very much with Per-Willy Amundsen. The answer this woman has received from the local NAV office is completely wrong. I react just as strongly to it as the representative Amundsen. Of course, Norwegian law applies in Norway, and nothing else. That is why I was also pleased that I saw in the same report that there was an opinion from NAV that clearly explained that this had been a mistake that had to be corrected, and made it clear that when the woman was separated – as far as I remember – under Norwegian law, she had full rights to obtain the various benefits that lone mothers have right to. I feel that it is very special what has happened. I would like to take an initiative towards NAV to make sure that this is not a widespread misunderstanding that exists in NAV, which I am quite sure is the case. I agree with the representative that it is such a serious incident that it would be a good thing if I, as the Council of State, also assured myself of this with NAV.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e125	I thank you for your answer. I think it is great that the Council of State has a very clear position on this matter. The father is that we're starting to move limits allow a little bit. Then we will have an ever-increasing pressure, where we will move the borders more and more – adapting Norwegian legislation to the case law that has been taken with us to Norway from the country from which they have emigrated. I want the Council of State to say clearly that you do not accept that kind of breach of Norwegian law, that this government will not in any way, I hope, accept that you begin to move on to Norwegian rules to meet the interests of religious minorities. Will the Council of State take absolute distance, and by promoting the fight against female oppression in a way other than that of quotas for women into the boardrooms?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e134	It would have been alarming if I had been standing in this room and said that I was not standing 100 pst. in the case of Norwegian law. Of course I do. In my opinion, in the debates I have had with the representative Amundsen, it has often been he who has not fully accepted that Norwegian law applies. But I'm very clear on that and have no problem at all with expressing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e141	There will be two follow-up questions – first Kari Lise Holmberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e144	In the last growing-up period, the Stortinget government asked for a change in the foreign regulations, in order to ensure that there was a condition for family reunification to Norway that the woman is guaranteed equal to the right to divorce in the Islamic marriage contract. The proposal was sent out at wide consultation. Based on the hearing opinions and advice from experts, both the government and we found that this was not advisable. Everyone in Norway is entitled to a divorce. The Council of State writes in the 2007 budget: ‘The government will continue to work on alternative measures to prevent the persistent marital problem, also called incomplete divorce.’ This was a year ago. The question then arises, following the previous response of the Council of State: What alternative measures have the Council of State taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e156	What is important for me to stress is that the systems we need to have in place are that when a woman in Norway, regardless of religion, applies for separation, gets help through family counselling, etc. and have been granted separation by the Norwegian authorities, that separation is fully justified. Any divorce later will be fully justified in all respects under Norwegian law. The important thing for me is to stand up very clearly for this. If there are religious ties in marriage, it would not be important for the Norwegian authorities to consider that it is not relevant. Norwegian law is very clear in the direction that a Norwegian divorce is 100 pst. valid, without any reservations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e164	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e167	It seems that the Council of State has not done anything, nor has it intended to do anything concrete about the fact that very many women with a minority background are systematically being oppressed in Norway, despite the fact that everyone in this room agrees that Norwegian law applies in Norway. The case that was shown in the VG is just one specific example. What I fear is that this is a much more profound problem, that we have groups of our new countrymen who do not intend to comply with Norwegian law at all, and who believe that there are other rules that will underlie their behaviour, even if they live in Norway. Then we have a challenge, especially because this is a population that is increasing to an extent in Norway. This means that the Council of State must take action in relation to newcomers, or at least ensure that they commit themselves to comply with Norwegian law. The alternative is that we get sharia-like conditions also in parts of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e174	I have to say that I react a little to the description that the representative Siv Jensen now gives. My impression is that the immigrant population in Norway is law-abiding. They are 'up on the moon' every day and go to work. They're making sure this country goes around. They're very concerned about keeping laws and regulations. They pay their taxes, and they follow Norwegian laws in full. To give the impression that the immigrants as a group are a kind of criminal part of the population is very wrong. We're not in the vicinity of being able to say that the sharia laws have any impact in Norway. The more important it is – as I also said to the representative Amundsen – that when we get the kind of examples that we got on Saturday, we have to stand up very clearly and look at it. We have to say that this is not the case, of course, and at least there are no Norwegian authorities who enforce Norwegian law and Norwegian rules then until those degrees are wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e183	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e186	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. One of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg's great glan numbers from the last big election campaign was the happiness that would reveal itself to countries and people, only we got a majority government. Halfway through this great age, however, the people have already turned towards the red-green government, assuming that in all polls the government lies miles away from a majority. Much of the reason is that the Government and its supporters are so openly arguing and cracking so much in all directions, that Per Borten’s ‘stimulating staur’ appears to be a trifle. Let me mention some important examples from the areas of employment and social policy. Where the Council of State says in cash that there is a general increase in social assistance rates, SV wants so high social assistance rates that many in full-time jobs will come out clearly worse than a social client. Where the Council of State says a clear and clear yes to the line of work, and that social clients ‘have to get up on the ground’, SVs are shocked. When the Council of State says welfare systems are falling, SV is upset. When the Council of State says that the AFP scheme needs to be amended and adapted to the pension reform in order to pay off work, the SV National Meeting takes the decision that everything should be as it is today. When the Council of State wants to send immigrants and refugees who live illegally in Norway, out of the country, SV says no. They want to give amnesty. In all these areas, the Council of State has been affordablely clear and clear, but it gets a little too often up like a bear and down like a skin trap: he says one thing one day, gets shot down by SV the next, and when the Government has finished its ruminanting, it's become quite unclear what was the result. My question is: Does the Council of State mean that he is given authority as the Council of State when, on a case-by-case basis, he falls into the back of those who were to be his most important supporters here in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e199	I don't think I should evaluate my authority. I guess that's what other people do. What I am concerned about is implementing the Soria Moria Declaration – Government policy – delivering matters to the Storting and doing what we have said we should do. Then we're going to measure the fall of 2009. I'm looking forward to it. I look forward to many good election duels with Martin Engeset and others then. I think we're going to await the election results in the autumn of 2009 before we take the final verdict on the red-green government. At least I'm not afraid of the election when it comes. What I want to stress is that we are implementing the major reforms just as we have said we are going to implement them, and I am responsible for major reforms. We are implementing the pension reform just as we have said we are going to implement it. We have received this matter from several governments – the Stoltenberg I government, the Bondevik II government and now the Stoltenberg II government is handling it. We're doing exactly what we've said we're going to do. Now, before Christmas, the letter of consultation on the People's Security Act and the new retirement pension will be consulted. Then we're going to get rid of the disability and public occupational pensions. There will be major and important discussions about the AFP in the spring. It is all aimed at ensuring that the pension reform is fully implemented on 1 January 2010. We are implementing the NAV reform just as we have said we should. We established NAV on 1 July 2006. This year we will establish more than 110 NAV offices. The whole of NAV shall be extended by the end of 2009. We have submitted the Foreign Affairs Act just as we said we should. We come with a big message on labour immigration. We are presenting the draft budgets with offensive initiatives in areas by region. My answer to the Engeset question is that Engeset gets to believe what he wants about my work, but we're doing exactly what we've told us to do, and we're delivering the greatest reforms that society's ever worked with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e212	My criticism was first and foremost that the Council of State is falling into the back of those who are to be his most important supporters. It was not a criticism of the work of the Council of State, because on all the concrete, important points I listed, the Council of State of Right has full support, and he is aware of that. But there may not have been a state council house passing by that there have been very strong reactions from the SVs here on the house towards a number of his plays. If he has not registered it, there must be something serious wrong with the Government's antenna system and/or he has permanently impaired vision and hearing. For there have been very clear and sharp reactions to a number of the government's fresh and affordable outlays.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e217	Again: Evaluation of both my soul life and my physics I leave to others. All the things I went through, were treated or treated in the Government – the entire pension reform, the whole NAV reform and the new foreign law. We are now engaged in a major communication on labour immigration. All these major issues have been dealt with by the Government, presented by the Government and adopted by the Government Party’s major groups. Some are on treatment, others are on treatment and others are on treatment. I focus on the fact that there is an overall government that is presenting the reforms. To the extent that we don't get Right, we still get a majority, because the government parties vote for the issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e226	There will be four follow-up questions – first Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e229	Hanssen State Council was out with a high cigarette feed and demanded that the social welfare recipients get up in the morning. The head of the Labour and Social Committee, Karin Andersen of the Swedish Government Party, was quick out there and stopped that debate. Since then we have not heard anything from the Council of State about getting up in the morning. That's actually the very opposite of what we've been told through the introduction of the qualification support and the qualification programme. In fact, a social welfare beneficiary can choose for himself whether to participate in the qualification programme and thus receive qualification support. So he can choose if he wants to lie in the morning or get up and participate in this program. Is it right that you can pick this? Should it not be that if you receive social assistance from the public, you should also give something back? Should you not get up in the morning and give something back to society when you receive social assistance, as the Council of State stood for earlier? Or has the Council of State changed its view now?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e236	It is such that social services law can require social assistance activities. But I think it's quite remarkable that in the context of the qualification aid, you say that you don't follow this up with activity, illustrated by getting up in the morning. For the qualification programme and qualification support, a targeted new effort to motivate, be a driving force and inspire people to become active, rather than being overly passive beneficiaries. By the end of next year, we think there will be 5,500 participants in the qualification programme. Of the 30,000 long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, hopefully 5,500 will be active during a year — getting up in the morning, being active, participating in the programme. Taking the starting point that the representative Svendsen has taken, and characterizing it as a negative development, I think it is quite well done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e244	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e247	For spring, the future AFP scheme is decided. The Christian People's Party is committed to the leadership and principles we agreed on in the reform of pensions. I don't think the Council of State has any doubts about that support. But state councils are also closely associated with a party that is really opposed to pension reform, and which has issued a state government opinion that raises doubts about an actual early retirement that will stimulate people to get into work. The State's contribution is to be continued in line with the Storting decision, i.e. not greatly increased. Is the Council familiar with the fact that his government colleague SV, led by the Minister of Finance, demands both the Council of State and its own government on what detailed AFP solution it should support, which can also be much more expensive than today's regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e254	I have to answer in the same way that I personally tried to answer the representative Engeset. That's 100 pst. the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund says that we have a big deal in Stortinget, based on a big message from this government, St.meld. No 5 for 2006-2007. The question of the AFP is dealt with in a relatively thorough manner, in the sense that some principles are drawn up by the State on the basis of which the state's position on the AFP discussions between the social partners is based. Those points have received their agreement in Stortinget, because the settlement is designed in such a way that there are some exceptions to the notification. Otherwise, it means that the conciliators have joined the Storing Message. These points, of course, stand by because we have full respect for what we have agreed with, among other things. Christian People's Party in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e261	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e264	SV believes that a state-guaranteed minimum rate frees a lot of time and resources for important individual follow-up. The left calls this "citizen pay," and has fought for that scheme for a long time. For long-term recipients of social assistance, an overview is needed in the future, and although there are no people who want to go on social assistance over time, we know that there are many who do. Because it's clear that they have to have something to live off. At this point the left of the SV is in government. But does the Council of State agree that raising social assistance rates for the poorest is the right way to go to combat poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e273	After all, the government has increased social assistance rates. Last year's budget raised social assistance rates by 5 pst. In contrast to what the previous government did, in addition to price increases, which I do not even remember – price-adjusted social assistance rates. We do not reject the fact that social assistance rates are an important tool in social policy, but what is a common ambition for the Government is that people should not live on economic social assistance. Economic social assistance shall be a crisis aid for a period of time. If you need an income hedge, it should be something other than social assistance. That's why we're launching the qualification program, which will either get people to work or clarify that people can't work, and then get them into another, permanent income insurance, for example. Disadvantages. The government's commitment is primarily to ensure that people who do not have their own work, who live by social assistance, receive a different income hedge through the qualification support.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e280	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e283	The main question here was really the government's gap, especially in the case of SV, which is still falling into the back of state councils on important issues. My question will therefore be addressed to the Minister of Defence. My question is whether the Minister of Defence feels that she has the full support of the government parties in our commitment to Afghanistan, which is so important, both for Afghanistan, for the NATO Alliance and for all the people involved in dangerous exercises. I recently felt that the SV Vice-Chairman, for example, said that it is a big question whether the military strategy in Afghanistan is right and that this is a topic for debate. So far this is not presented to the Stortinget, and I would like to ask the Council of State if it is such that the Government is now conducting a continuous discussion on the topic, which is not submitted to the Stortinget. And I would like to make it clear that this is not the case with civil effort, which is a broad desire to strengthen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e292	The President has some doubts as to whether this is a follow-up to the main question, which was a particular aspect of the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, but will leave to the Minister of Defence to answer if she wants to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e295	First, I can answer the big question about whether the government is behind what we've actually done. Of course it does. When sending soldiers in international operations, it is very important that both government and magnification are behind the contribution we are sending out. So far, that has been the case. I am also very pleased with the support that Stortinget has given to the soldiers who are out there, especially in Afghanistan, where our main international operation is. So it is that in very many countries, including NATO, there is a discussion of the balance between the performance of military action in Afghanistan, in terms of development, and in terms of, for example, the performance of military action in Afghanistan. having enough police to train the Afghan police. This whole balance sheet is a discussion about, and it's an important discussion. There is also a discussion in the United Nations about making this effort as broad as possible. But there is no contradiction in the fact that there is full support in the Government of that strategy and the mission we have undertaken in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e304	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e308	My question goes to State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. Recently, the Evening Post has had a number of articles that have raised questions about our paperless immigrants. There are between 5000 and 10,000 people living in Norway without a residence permit and without rights to healthcare and legal protection. Many of these have been here for many years. They live in hiding in fear of being discovered. The evening post has told of people working in slavelike conditions. The Christian People’s Party wants these people to receive a dignified treatment. It's about a new subclass of lawless people in our society. Our paperless immigrants may have had their asylum applications rejected many years ago, they may be so-called irreversible because the situation in the home country is unsustainable, and they may have come here as victims of human trafficking. It's a compound group, and we don't have an overview. Common to them is that they have a difficult life situation. The Christian People's Party will not give an amnesty where an automatic right of residence is granted. Some people may have wrong motives for being in the country, and we don't want those who commit criminal acts to be allowed to be. But the Christian People's Party will treat these people individually and give them a new assessment, where we have lowered the threshold for humanitarian residence. It must be possible to place emphasis on living in the country, language skills and labour input. Last night's Evening Post, the Council of State answers that he has the following solution: ‘Send them out!’ In my opinion, this is too simple and completely impossible to implement. My question to the Council of State is: why does he want everyone to be sent out regardless of who they are, how long they have been here, how much they have contributed to the Norwegian community or how difficult it has been for them to go home? So why won't he give them a real chance?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e335	Now it's the end of the ring – from main question 1 to main question 3. Main question 1 was about whether I would make sure that the laws and regulations in this country were followed. The third main question is now whether I will ensure that people can break laws and regulations in this country. So I don't want to, I want to keep to the answer I gave in the first question. Why are they going out? The main answer to that is, because they're here illegally. They're here in violation of Norwegian law. Then it would have been alarming if I came to Stortinget and said, "It doesn't matter, let them stay anyway." I'm not going to say that. Many of these have been dealt with in depth and individually – twice in the UDI, they have appealed to UNE and had one, two, three, four, five appeals there. The cases may have been brought before the judiciary after that. They've been denied in every instance. All our assessments suggest that they go home. Then I think it is quite obvious that my task is to try to facilitate such a return. However, I admit that while they're here illegally, there may be situations that make us as societies stand up. For example, if a child: Pulmonary inflammation or absence of schooling, we need emergency medical treatment — and children should go to school even if their parents are illegal here. But the main response is, of course, return. These are people who, despite individual treatment, are here contrary to Norwegian law. Then it is my job to help get that understanding out and make sure that the return can be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e344	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But it's obvious, as he says, that some of those who are here may have good reasons for that. We agree that those who are irretrievable – that is, those who, because of relations in the home country, cannot actually be sent home – must be allowed to stay. This is the situation for some; they have remained here year after year because the situation in the home country has been unsustainable. Isn't there a reasonable reason to distinguish these for which a situation has arisen in the period they have been here after rejection, and to re-assess them? If the Council of State is so concerned that we should have clear rules – why every day does he propose in the proposal for a new foreign law that it be prohibited to help those who are in this country illegally? Why would he want to hit, for example? The Salvation Army, helping those who are here illegally?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e351	I disagree with the introduction to the question – that it is that many of these people are here because the situation in the home country is unsustainable. No, if it is not possible for a person to return to his country of origin, it will stay. The entire assessment is about being able to return. There is no need for protection. Individuals say that I disagree, I want to be still. But this is contrary to Norwegian law. I think the law is right. In-depth assessments have been carried out on the need for protection. Legal Norwegian decisions have been taken. Individuals then rise above the law and say that I don't want to follow it, I don't want to respect it, I disagree. However, there can be no basis for staying in Norway. Then we have free immigration. Then we say, "Come here, please, just stay!" That may be the immigration policy Christian People's Party stands for, but it's not who I and the Government stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e360	There will be three follow-up questions – first Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e363	Governments are very high and dark in yesterday's Evening Post when he says he's going to send illegal immigrants. It's affordable. But when you don't have the measures to implement what you say, it'll be nothing but empty words. In the 2008 budget, the Government does not actually increase the appropriations for the return compared to the revised budget for 2007. In the past, the Council of State has also taken a complete distance from closed receptions, which would be the best measure to prevent people from going underground and thus staying illegally. The Council of State has not even managed to throw out Mullah Krekar, even though it is fully possible to do so within the EMK – as former Strasbourg, Greve, judge, has said. My question is: what steps does the Council of State have to follow up what he says when he's high and dark in the Evening Post?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e372	Once again, whether I'm blind and heavy-headed or tall and dark, I have no comment on it. But the fact is that in 2006, we forced 2,355 people from Norway to return with the police. 2,355 were apprehended, forced to return and sent out of the country. In 2006, we carried out national returns to, for example: Northern Iraq, Somalia and Afghanistan — in other words, to a number of countries to which many other European countries are unable to make returns. So far this year, 1787 people have been arrested and forced to return by Norwegian police. Saying that we don't do anything to get this done falls on their own unfairness when it's a fact that in a few years' time over 4,000 people have been forced to return and followed by the police out of Norway and back to their homeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e381	Kari Lise Holmberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e384	Last night's Evening Post, the Council of State says of the paperless: ‘The main challenge is to find them and send them out of Norway. They have received a refusal to apply for asylum and are staying here illegally.’;» The solution is return, return, return. Right couldn't have said it better yourself, and we give the council full support. The right is also against amnesty, for all countries that have tried it have poor experience. The problem with what the Council of State says, however, is that there is only rhetoric on the part of the Council of State. I am based on the fact that practice suggests that he does not get his colleague in the Ministry of Justice to follow the same recipe. This year the police have transported so few illegal immigrants that large amounts are left untouched in the budget. Then my question becomes: what will the Council of State actually do to get all the states to work in the same direction in order to achieve the goal of returning people who are illegal in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e396	I recently referred to the figures that show that forced returns are actually carried out to an extent that, in my opinion, is relatively significant, so I am not going to repeat that. It's a simplified analysis to think that only the police can get hold of you, so forced return is easy to implement. What is very often a challenge are the problems of getting the host country to accept them, for example. missing ID documents. Among the steps we are taking in the budget for 2008, we are now setting up several new foreign Attaché positions at Norwegian embassies in key countries of reception to assist the police in getting ID documents here – once a person has been arrested and placed at Trandum pending dispatch. There will be Norwegian policemen at foreign stations in the most difficult countries who can help us to obtain the necessary travel documents. There are examples of actions we are now implementing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e403	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e407	I'm going to try to develop some human features in the Council's response today. It is clear that he has never been in dark cellar rooms and talked to families sitting there. Obviously, the Council of State is right that there are a lot of people who have very clear issues, who are here because they are not allowed, and who are just going to be sent out. But I hope that the council can open up one thing, and that's that a lot of people who are here may have had such horrible experiences that they actually haven't been able to tell them. Now Norwegian war history is quite far away from most of us, but we all have stories, sail from the immediate family, which we can't tell because it's so terrible. Is the Council of States open to the fact that there are actually some people who have not been able to tell everything, and who may not have put all the cards on the table, but who believe that the option is so terrible that you choose to be illegal here? Maybe they should get a new chance, if they want to present their whole story?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e416	I would like to strongly distance ourselves from the fact that we have an inhuman treatment system on this. Now there are questions about whether I would like to take the initiative to provide them with new information if they do. It is the system in Norway — as long as you stay in Norway and have had a case with the foreign agencies — that can be promoted at any time. If you say that listen here, now I have a story I have to tell, I haven't done it until now, then you promote a desire for transformation, and it will be dealt with. Whether there is a request for conversion No 8 doesn't matter, you have a right to get it treated. It's a very noisy system we have, given that it can actually happen things that make the first application no longer the whole story. That system is in place. But when you don't have new information and you don't get a new treatment, we have to respect the decision that's been made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e421	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e424	My question goes to the Minister of Defence. One of the important reasons for promoting views on Norwegian defence policy is the Chief of Defence's lecture in the Oslo Military Society, right behind us. He gave such a talk on Monday. In this lecture, he comments on the security policy situation around us, of course in Afghanistan, but also in our own neighbourhood. Here the Chief of Defence has the following conclusion: ‘The important and interesting conclusion from a military point of view is therefore that, in our time and in our neighbourhoods, limited military operations can not be ignored in support of political demands or the use of military power as part of broader policy crisis management.’ As I have followed these talks, the defense chief has not spoken in this way and with such clarity before. I guess he has a basis for doing so. I remember that we for approx. A year ago, a report was received from the Swedish Defence Research Institute — which is, of course, an independent institute — where two researchers presented an assessment of the northern regions. They said that now we are saying something that is not entirely politically correct, but given certain prerequisites in our neighbouring country – the Russian Federation – one cannot exclude scenarios that are about a possible limited use of power against us, if not otherwise in order to promote political considerations. I included this report on behalf of the Norwegian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union, where it was included in a very broad review of the northern regions. When the head of defence speaks in this way and speaks so strongly, clearly and clearly, my question becomes to the Minister of Defence: what is her assessment of the situation that the head of defence here draws up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e438	The first thing I want to say is that we don't look at the increased military activity that we've seen from Russia lately, and especially this year, as an increased threat of a military attack on Norway. I want to underline that very strongly. Still, we're recording that there's increased activity. We're looking at the number of flights down the Norwegian coast. We see that only in the last few months have Russian planes flown more than in the previous ten years together, and we also know that in the north Russia has the base for very much activity in exercising with military capabilities. When planning the defense for the future, it also means planning for it uncertain. The only thing we do know about the future is that it's not as predictable as it was during the cold war when we kept dealing with one enemy, which was a little bit easier to deal with. It's not like that anymore. We have to deal with something that is predictable. That means that we have to align the defense against constant conversion – we have to be able to act quickly, and we have to take into account that situations may arise where it may be necessary to use the defense in our neighbourhoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e445	I'm fully aware that the Chief of Defense is not talking about the Cold War. On the contrary, something is being talked about today, in the northern regions, on the basis of enormous natural resources, major challenges and economic interests. It is in the context of the use of the words ‘not to be overlooked by limited military operations’. I see the Minister of Defence's response here today as a confirmation that this is an assessment which, in given circumstances, is common between the Defence Director and the Minister of Defence. That's what I think it's important to note, because if I hadn't been deeply concerned. So my question is: when we have such a situation that one cannot rule out the possibility that in certain situations one may be exposed to what the Defence Manager calls ‘limited military operations in support of political demands, or the use of military power as part of a broader political crisis management’, what consequences does the Minister of Defence see as being able to take account of and plan for, in order to face such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e452	Let me first point out some of the areas that allow situations to arise -- it's the particular struggle for resources, where energy is a very strategic resource. Much of the energy extracted off the Norwegian coast, even in the north, is other parts of Europe, especially, entirely dependent on it. When it comes to how we're going to align our defenses, it's the way that we, from the government's side, have put the north areas strongly in focus. We have done the same in the Defence. That's why we want a strong presence in the north, both by the Army, by the Air Force and, in the case of sailing, by the Maritime Defense. With all the capacities we have combined, and that play together in the new Defense, we believe that we also take into account adequate and good surveillance in the northern areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e459	There will be three follow-up questions – first Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e462	Russia therefore chooses to speak by, among others. use of military presence, and that is a language that I understand the Government believes we should also speak – therefore the bet in the northern areas. But the problem is that we are now seeing ever-decreasing budgets, and we see that the head of defense in his study actually proposes to phase out an entire class of ships. Then are my questions to the Council of State: does she really believe that it is possible to maintain a North-Area operation with ever-decreasing budgets? And is it not the case that the long-term programme we are about to start examining must lead to budgetary arrows pointing up again?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e469	Talking by military presence means that we have to be present, that we have to assert our sovereignty, and that we have to show that we care about our neighbourhoods whether it's to land or to water. With regard to the specific issue of withdrawing a class of ships, the representative Petersen is well aware of the work being done on the next long-term – where we have not yet come halfway – and also of the structure of all our military capabilities and the overall structure of the next long-term. This matter will be brought before Stortinget before Easter, after the time pattern with which the representative Petersen is also familiar.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e476	Per Ove Wide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e480	I think the Council of State is very defensive in relation to the speech given by the Chief of Defense in Oslo Military Society this day. He actually suggested something he hasn't done before, and it's quite remarkable, that here there might be a smaller estimate from the Russian side. Then I have to ask the Council of State: what has she done about it? Has she taken into account that such things can happen? We now see that nothing has happened in North Norway regarding the defence – I mean, almost nothing, in fact. There is about not one Norwegian soldier in Finnmark, for example. – I have pointed out this earlier. There's a good border guard, but there's almost nothing else. There are now also suggestions to put down the Porsangermo, and thus everything disappears. Where is our preparedness – I have also asked about it in the past – both on top of water and under water? When we know that the Russians are bringing large troops up to the Norwegian border in the north, I think this is disturbing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e485	I don't want to contribute to any new cold war scenario, because we're not there. But I fully agree with Mr Width that it is important that we show our presence in the north. It's important that we show that we care, that this is our area, and that we want to assert our sovereignty over the large areas there. When it comes to how we do this, it's just by sailing, by arranging big exercises in the north, like this. The army does with allied training, etc., and by having fighter planes and surveillance planes, radar chains, submarines – all of this together is what it takes to give us the exact picture of the situation at all times. This is a situational picture that we follow from hour to hour and from day to day. That's the most important thing we can do to get an understanding of the situation that we're in at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e492	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e495	The chief of defense was very interesting, and it gave some new perspectives. One was about the challenges in the north, and the consequences. At the same time, the head of defence spent a lot of time describing the international operation we are particularly involved in now, namely in Afghanistan. In many ways he concluded two ways. On the one hand, we are facing new and difficult challenges – he used quite strong words about it, linked it to the situation in the north, and based the defence studies on it. On the other hand, he said that where we can gain experience, international operations are out. With our pointed end we learn to wage war, and it will help us when a critical situation arises at home. Then my question is, will it now be a goal in itself to participate in international operations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e500	When Norway participates in international operations, e.g.: in Afghanistan, we are there as one of the NATO members who have said yes to the UN – we are taking on that mission in Afghanistan. To prepare our soldiers for a mission in Afghanistan, you have to train. That training often takes place in North Norway – in Troms, to be very specific. It's kind of the real picture of it all. It's not like we're going to participate in international operations because our army gets training, but when you practice and practice at home and to the extent that you practice international operations, there's a dynamics here; things depend on each other. When we participate in international operations, it is not least in solidarity with the people we are set to protect and help.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e505	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e508	I have a question for the Minister of Defence. I'm not going to discuss the medical situation in Afghanistan right now. We leave that process to the hearings to be held by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee at a later stage. But what I want to record is the memory of the council. She has previously been out in the media and said things that she does not remember. After you have walked a little hard into her, she still remembers. So this is the medical situation, after all. So in the VG today, we are once again experiencing that the Council of State is out and does not remember. What we're talking about is, after all, the security of our soldiers, not least in Afghanistan. That is why I simply have to ask the Council of State: is it now more she does not remember the quotation in Afghanistan? Can we expect more to come out of the closet? I think it is quite disturbing, in fact, that we have a government council that remembers so little. So what's the next one? Can we expect more?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e517	I'll start with what's important in this case, and that's the security of our soldiers. Since I joined as Minister of Defence, I have been extremely concerned about the security of our soldiers, both at home and outside. I have been concerned that they should have the right equipment, the right training, the right preparation, and that they should be able to carry out their mission. This means, among other things: that you have to have a doctor – because that's what the representative is playing at. What has been a challenge for defence over several years has actually been getting a sufficient number of doctors, especially specialists. So this we've focused a lot on since I joined. It's been a challenge. I'm very glad that in the case of specialist services – especially for Meymaneh, which is the vulnerable point – it is now in place. We have predictability both surgeon and anaesthetic until 1 April, and we work intensively and actively every day to have a more predictable system after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e524	I was not looking to get a statement about the medical situation. As I said, we leave it to subsequent hearings. But I was looking for whether there is more The Greatness should know about Afghanistan, which the Council of State can now come upon, but which she clearly has not remembered in the past in connection with these medical reports on the situation in Afghanistan. So she doesn't remember. Then she goes back, and then she remembers a little bit anyway. I think this is worrying. It's, as I said, despite all the soldiers' safety we're talking about. It's very important things – vital things – and then I think it's a little scary that the Council of State still has to go back into memory and think about the reports she's received, maybe also about other things in Afghanistan that she doesn't remember. Is there anything more she doesn't remember?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e529	It's not as easy to refer to what you might not remember, as they're asked about here. I don't think my memory is much worse than anyone else's. With regard to the medical situation and the safety situation in Afghanistan, it is something that I very much focus on. But I am sure that if the representative Width was asked about a special matter he was informed about a year and a half ago, it is not certain that even the representative Width had managed to remember it. So, to be perfectly precise, and to let it be quite clear: From the first day I joined as the Council of State, I have been concerned with security. I've been busy with doctors. It's been a big challenge to get it done. That's why, like the representative Width, I'm very happy that we now have a foreseeable medical situation in the future, so that this can help and improve the security of our soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e536	There will be two follow-up questions – first Odd Einar Dørum.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e540	I stick to the tradition that what Storting knows, it knows Stortinget. And if you don't know anything about the Storting, you have rules of play for it. My question to the Council of State is based on what I see as the issue was also the issue of the representative Width, namely the security of Afghanistan. So my question isn't about the medical situation, it's been treated before, and it's not about the past, it's about the control and the constitution committee, it's about the material. Norway has upgraded old transport aeroplanes, which are protected to ensure their operational use. We know that Norway is going to use helicopters, and we know that some of our helicopters are well used. So my question to the Council of State is: is the government now thinking about whether to invest or invest more to ensure the purely material security of our soldiers operating in Afghanistan? I'm asking that, because it's not long since we had an urgent purchase in this room of new transport planes, because you thought it was important. And I consider security in Afghanistan to be very important to the soldiers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e549	I share the opinion of the representative of Dørum that the security of our soldiers is very important. That is why I am very pleased that there was a decision in Stortinget to purchase new transport aircraft. We see that as very important. The big challenge is that the first aircraft will not be delivered until the end of 2008, but it follows at least the plan that was also announced when these planes were purchased. So this is an investment that's made, not least in transport safety, in Afghanistan. In the case of helicopters, it is something that the Government has assessed and also gained agreement during consultations in the DUUK that there is an important measure in order to have better medical evacuation capacity. We're going to have up to three helicopters in Afghanistan. We are building facilities for these in Afghanistan. We're doing all of this to improve safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e556	Per Roar Bredvold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e559	I would like to continue with the safety of our Norwegian girls and boys in Afghanistan. In a question-time question just before the tragic fatal accident in which a Norwegian soldier was killed by a road bomb, I asked how quickly you could replace parts of the car park down there, especially replacing unexplored, worn vehicles with new armoured cars. I was then told that the defense has a project in progress to replace 110 cars, but because this was not a shelf product, it could not be implemented until the second half of 2008 – that is, in a year's time. The answer made me very frustrated. I took some phones, and in one hour I could have ordered 25 armored Toyota Landcruiser/Hilux, the same type of car in which the Norwegian soldier was killed, however it was unanswered. Nor should it be in delivery time. The cars could be delivered to Kabul International Airport in less than seven days. Other companies I was in contact with could also deliver, and I have written confirmation of this. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Why does the defense not go out and buy equipment that ensures the safety of our Norwegian girls and boys?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e570	In the ISAF operation in Afghanistan we have approx. 77 armoured vehicles. We also have a number of unanswered vehicles, and depending on the assignment to be performed, it is assessed whether to select an armoured vehicle or an unanswered vehicle. I just want to say that it's not like just a vehicle is armored, so they're per. definition secure. They may be safer in some cases, but there is no clear answer to it at all. In terms of replacement, we have a project going on, but unfortunately it takes time, by buying an Iveco vehicle that we already have 25 of. It takes time, because this isn't the shelf product. We are once again considering a rapid acquisition in order to obtain more vehicles, because it is clear that the vehicles in Afghanistan are being set up very quickly, so that we need a large vehicle fleet. We have this under constant review, and we'll see if we can get into the production lines of other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e577	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e580	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Just ahead of the UN's big meeting next week in Bali, and given that the Kyoto agreement is now beginning to run from the turn of the year, the question is simply: why does the government that promised on the road not come with conditions for the production of new renewable energy in Norway that are competitive with the conditions in our neighbouring countries or in the rest of Europe? Today, we have been told that the nation is not modest in collecting so-called green taxes. This year, the government will take $55 billion into so-called green taxes. Some of this goes back to supporting the production of new renewable energy. If we are to succeed in our own climate policy or international climate policy, we need to build a bridge between fossil and renewable societies. I assume that the Council of State is well aware that next year we will have a record increase in climate emissions in Norway. To meet this challenge, we see that the conditions for the production of new renewable energy in Norway are getting worse. The tax screw is driven in front of the lowest hanging fruit in the production of micro, mini or small power plants. We see that the best, largest and most robust forces in Norway choose to invest and invest abroad, not just Hammerfest Energie, Fred. Olsen and Statkraft, but also a number of entrepreneurs. Alf Bjørseth e.g. It is clear that he chooses Germany, because when he undertakes a major project on wind turbines, he shows that conditions in Germany are so much, much better than in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e591	Let me just first say that I'm happy for the commitment that I experience is in the Storting regarding renewable energy. The government has great ambitions for renewable energy. In the 61 points that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have put forward in the context of the climate agreement, I also record that renewable energy is high on the agenda. I look forward to the discussions that we are going to have on the climate agreement in total, including the discussions that will then take place on renewable energy. We are in the process of establishing our electricity support system, which has been treated in Stortinget. We're going to get it in place as soon as possible over the New Year. It's a new way of working with renewable energy. ESA is still asking some questions about the scheme. I had hoped that we would have the operation from 1 January. The signals from ESA are now that they may not be able to finish, but we will get the system in place as soon as possible. The electricity support system is important. Then I register, as the representative says, that we get big investments abroad in renewable energy that I would like to see that we had in Norway. That is why we are going to launch a full review of the arrangements we have, including those that are now in the electricity support system, with a view to ensuring that we will have a significant and far greater production of renewable energy in Norway for the future than we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e600	There was no particularly reassuring answer that was presented here today. I assume that the Council of State agrees with the heart that the worst and most expensive solution is to wait. Today's government is now running with its third year of government. In this sector, we have seen a political paralysis almost unparalleled, much characterized by very large words. One year ago, when he presented the Government’s plan for a renewable energy support scheme, the Precursors of the State said that this only fixed Norway’s leading position in the development of renewable energy. Åslaug Haga himself recently said to the Evening Post: ‘I get worried when I register that the large investments in renewable energy are taking place outside Norway’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e605	No matter how you turn it around, there is a historical commitment to renewable energy in Norway today. The bet is extensive. For 2008 alone, we are adding to a doubling of efforts through Enova. It is an essential instrument. Our renewal effort represents a clear breach of what was the situation before we took over. The electricity support system is also a completely new design. We had hoped that we could set up green certificates. We did not agree with the Swedes on the burden-sharing of green certificates. That is why we have chosen to invest in the electricity support system. It shall be raised and standing as quickly as possible over the New Year. I have good hope that the electricity support system and the big investment through Enova will deliver important results quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e612	For the sake of time, presentation and invited hearings, there will be one follow-up question – Torbjørn Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e616	When the Council of State joined, she went high on the track and promised to speed up the investment in renewable energy in Norway. We're going to have concrete results, and this quick, state council just said a little while ago. Now we see that several renewable energy projects are being flagged out by Norway to countries with a much better framework for renewable energy investment, for example. wind power. Among other things, Bellona believes that the Government’s commitment to renewable energy is ridiculously poor because one does not increase the rates of the aid scheme. The Norwegian industry and the national association of industrial enterprises are also disappointed. Then my question is: does the Council really see it now as realistic to achieve the target of 12 TWh renewable energy by 2010 and a whole of 30 TWh by 2016, when we see how slow it is to expand new renewable energy production within the framework conditions that the Government has so far laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e621	In fact, it is not right that the investment in renewable energy should slow down. Enova is far ahead of the goals set by the organisation in this field, and we are going to be very happy about that. In addition to the fact that Enova is already ahead of the objectives defined for them, we are virtually doubling the efforts in the field of renewable energy to next year. There is an amazing amount of exciting happening around Norway in this field. It's a formidable commitment, which we, for example, are doing. see now when we are about to put in place a separate bioenergy strategy, which we are going to have ready on 1 February. This incomprehensible pessimistic perspective that the opposition tends to present in terms of renewable energy is simply not correct. There's a lot of exciting happening, and we're going to do everything we can in the future to make it happen even faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e628	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e640	In the first half of 2008, Norway will be part of a Nordic effort force to be ready for the EU for possible deployment into international operations. Since this is the first time the Nordic intervention force is ready, I would like to take this opportunity to explain the status of Norwegian participation in an open debate. Norway participates here with Sweden, Finland, Estonia and Ireland. The intervention force will be one of two such forces in readiness in spring 2008. This preparedness is part of the EU response force concept established on 1 January 2007. So far, EU intervention forces have not been used in operations. The aim of the response forces is to enable the EU to deploy rapid and flexible military units for international crisis management. The tasks of the intervention forces are based on the EU’s overall security strategy and the so-called Petersberg tasks. This includes humanitarian and peacekeeping missions, crisis management and peace-building operations. The action forces shall be capable of acting independently and without after-supply for a period of 30 days at the time of secondment. Thereafter, the power shall be capable of remaining for a further 90 days in the area of operation in the case of after-supply. 120 days is the total length of the task to be carried out by the strength according to the concept. There is no indication that an effort force will necessarily operate alone. Well, it's likely to operate with a different strength, for example. a UN operation. We have seen in the past that the EU has contributed to strengthening UN operations during critical periods in order to temporarily strengthen the capacity of existing UN forces. This was the case with the EU operation in Congo in the autumn of 2006, which just contributed to the United Nations operation in the course of the elections in this war-torn African country. There is also a possibility that an effort force can enter as an initial strength, which can move out to a problem area at short notice – stabilise the situation and facilitate the conditions for a subsequent strength. Let me then turn to the Nordic intervention force's composition and leadership. As a leadership nation, Sweden will provide most of the strength, including management apparatus and support functions. In total, Sweden contributes more than 2000 people, including support functions and management. In addition, Estonia, Finland, Ireland and Norway contribute contributions ranging from 50 to 220 staff. The core of the force is a Swedish mechanized battalion of about 750 personnel, reinforced with necessary support functions. The Norwegian contribution is mainly transport control and sanitation capacity, as well as staff in the various management functions. The contribution also includes overall responsibility for strategic maritime transport. Costs related to strength training, i.e.: what is done to prepare the strength for preparedness and possible deployment are covered within the defence budget. At the same time, it will not be possible to pre-plan where and how the NBG could possibly be deployed. The insertion of Norwegian contributions as part of this strength will be non-predictable operations in budgetary terms. This is the same practice as for forces registered in the NATO Response Force. EU feedback has been positive in view of the preparations made under Swedish leadership and in relation to assessments of the overall capacity of the force. Not later than the beginning of this month, the entire intervention force carried out a comprehensive exercise called ‘Nordic Resolution’ in Sweden. The exercise involved the movement of parts of the force from South Sweden to the north and further transport into an operating area. This exercise lasted over 16 days and is to be considered as a final test of the strength’s status prior to the standby period. Why is it important for Norway to participate in a Nordic effort force? Improved European crisis management capacity is a strength for the international community, not least because the EU has a wide range of instruments. European defence cooperation has evolved in recent years. The EU has shown that, among other things: in Bosnia and Congo, the ability to make substantive military contributions for crisis management. Further development of this capacity, including: through the input forces, is positive. Response forces have also been developed specifically to support UN crisis management capabilities, with a particular focus on stabilisation and peace operations in Africa. Experience suggests that it often takes time to get a UN force in place. The government is working actively to strengthen its own ability to conduct complex peace operations and, like the UN leadership, see the establishment of the EU response groups as a useful complement, as support for a UN force or as an initial force before the UN can take over responsibility. The strength has also become a central part of Nordic security and defence cooperation. It is therefore also appropriate to further develop this cooperation and adapt it to the new needs. Our contribution is important in this context because it engages Norwegian defence in practical cooperation with our Nordic neighbouring country. This is in addition to the cooperation we already have in the framework of NATO's partner cooperation and operations. Overall, Norway's participation in the Nordic intervention force is pursuing important foreign and security policy objectives. It is through active participation that we have credibility and acceptance as partners in relations with the EU and the EU Member States. This is what participation appears to be an important element of an active European policy. Issues related to the deployment decision-making process were a central element of the discussions in the Stortingen on the Nordic intervention force. The agreement between the participating nations of 23 May 2005 states that the deployment of the Nordic intervention force can only be carried out in accordance with the principles of international law and the UN Charter. It is in line with the Government's assumption that Norwegian participation will only be relevant when an explicit UN mandate is in place. At the same time, it is important for me to stress that there is a national decision-making process in each country that will provide the basis for a strong effort. The deployment of Norwegian personnel will only be relevant following a national decision. Established practice applies here to decisions on contributions to international operations. There is therefore a strong emphasis on the design of consultation procedures with the EU and the participating countries of the Nordic intervention force to ensure that we can carry out the national decision-making process. As a leadership nation, Sweden has a special responsibility for briefing and consulting with the Norwegian authorities. Therefore, prior to any decision on deployment, we will consult closely with the Swedish leadership and other participating countries whenever possible the use of the intervention force becomes relevant. Norwegian authorities will also keep in touch with the EU in Brussels. Parallel clarifications will take place in EU countries prior to any decision by the Council of the European Union. I would like to stress that unanimity is required in the Council in order to implement an operation, but it is worth noting that we are at risk of being confronted with processes that will require very rapid decisions on deployment. It is a particular challenge for Norway as a non-EU member. It is therefore essential to provide an effective and thorough decision-making process for participating nations to be informed at the earliest opportunity of possible operations. We have set up parallel national discussions in all participating countries to ensure that national clarifications can take place before a decision on the use of the force is taken by the Council of the European Union. After a decision is taken in the Council of the European Union, the Government will depend on being able to take a very rapid decision on Norwegian participation. It includes the need for timely consultations with Stortinget. Exercises have been carried out in order to exercise decision-making processes between the five countries that constitute the response force. Participation has been both at political level and at the level of office. The focus was both on decision-making processes prior to a deployment of the strength and on the management of an operation. These exercises have provided us with useful information on possible issues related to the use of an effort force. For Norway, good national control is essential even during the course of the operation. We'll have officers both in the operating headquarters and in the force headquarters of the operating area. We do this to ensure relevant functions related to command and control. This mechanism ensures that the use of Norwegian forces is controlled in accordance with any national guidelines. We have a long experience that such a practice works well, among other things. from operations in Afghanistan and in the Balkans. Force headquarters of the intervention force, i.e. the management element that will be deployed together with the strength of an operation is now stationed at Enköping in Sweden. In the headquarters of Enköping several Norwegian officers have already worked in various staff functions over time. In the event of deployment of the intervention force, the force headquarters will establish itself in the area of responsibility of the force. At the level above, so-called operational level, the British Permanent Joint Headquarters in Northwood will manage the management function. From Northwood, a Swedish general, along with his Finnish deputy, will direct the efforts of the force during a possible deployment. The use of Northwood is based on a separate agreement with the UK authorities and implies that the UK contributes the necessary support. The Operation Team is staffed by personnel from participating countries, including Norwegians, as well as a small number of officers from other EU countries. Let me then move on to possible areas of action for the Nordic intervention force. It is currently difficult to identify specific areas that could be expected to be relevant for deployment. The strength may be deployed anywhere outside the territory of the EU, in accordance with the established concept of the EU response forces. However, it is clear that the EU’s focus is primarily on Africa, and preferably in operations aimed at supporting UN intervention. It is also in line with Norway’s main priorities. The EU's ongoing operations may provide a reference to the types of tasks and areas that may be involved. The Union is currently engaged in ten operations in Europe, Asia and Africa. Of these, only one is currently military, namely Operation Althea in Bosnia-Herzegovina, where Norway ends its participation from early 2008. In addition, the EU is committed to civil police and judicial action, including: in Afghanistan, the Congo and the Palestinian Territories. Norway is a contributor to the ongoing EU police operation in Afghanistan and has also signaled that we will contribute to the planned police operation in Kosovo. The EU is preparing a military operation in eastern Chad and in the northeastern part of the Central African Republic, i.e. in the vicinity of Darfur. The mission is to contribute to the security of the UN civilian operation under planning in this area, pending a UN multinational follow-up force. This force will consist of forces from mainly France, Ireland, Poland and Sweden. The deployment of the intervention force in this operation is so far not planned, but it cannot be excluded that the EU will request this. Norway has expressed support for the EU operation as an important contribution to improving the situation of refugees and the population of eastern Chad and the north-east of the Central African Republic. We also believe that it represents a strength for the stability of the region – it will be complementary to the combined UN/AU force in Darfur, where Norway, as is well known, has offered to participate with a substantial contribution. As I pointed out earlier, it is difficult to give clear indications as to whether the Nordic intervention force will apply. It's also hard to say where this will happen in the case. However, I would like to stress that during this period, we must be prepared for its application. I feel confident that our participation in the Nordic intervention force has contributed and will contribute significantly to an active Norwegian voice in the development of European defence and security policy, the Government's aim to support the UN and strengthened Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e702	Having regard to the second paragraph of Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure, the President will now propose opening a comment round so that one representative from each party can have the floor once for up to 5 minutes and the Council of State will have a closing post of up to 5 minutes. – No objection has been raised to this procedure – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e707	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for a thorough review of the status of the Nordic effort force, the Nordic Battle Group. The Labour Party welcomes the fact that, from the first half of 2008, we will be participating with Sweden, Finland, Estonia and Ireland in a Nordic effort force to be ready for the EU in cases where humanitarian and peacekeeping missions need to be deployed, such as crisis management and peace-building operations. I assume that when the strength is inserted, the costs will have to be additional. For a small country such as Norway, cooperation with other countries in the Nordic countries and in Europe will have many advantages, but at the same time provide strength for the mission, as several countries can join together. It is not difficult to see that an improved capacity for crisis management is a strength for the international community. Crisis management may be so scarce — from contributing to environmental disasters to more peace-building, spicy operations. In order to deal with such a wide range of tasks, a wide range of instruments are needed. It may be difficult to have such a broad preparedness for each country. This is precisely why Nordic and European cooperation is positive. With the positive development of European defence cooperation over the last three years, the EU will not least boast of such a wide range of instruments. In particular, the objective of the response forces to support the UN's crisis management capability, with a particular focus on stabilisation and peace operations in Africa, is, according to the Soria Moria Declaration, our aim is to step up Norwegian civil and military participation in the UN peacekeeping work, with particular emphasis on Africa. As the Council of State said, the establishment of EU intervention teams would be a ‘beneficial complement’ which could be in support of a UN force or an initial strength before the UN could assume responsibility. Participation in international operations shall be enshrined in the UN Charter and have a clear UN mandate, shall be in accordance with Government policy, and shall also be established in the Agreement between the participating nations. However, as was also stated in the statement, it is important that the Stortninget be consulted before decisions are taken. Still having a unanimous rise behind decisions to send Norwegian forces in international operations is very important. Norwegian soldiers must be sure they have our full support. In the past, the Progress Party has been opposed to sending soldiers to Sudan. I sincerely hope that the Advance Party will support our soldiers in the Nordic Battle Group if they are to leave. Our security is best ensured through good international cooperation and good interaction with our neighbouring countries. Our participation in the Nordic Battle Group contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e728	Thank you for the presentation. It was straightforward and transparent. Even if you don't have to agree with everything, I understood what was said. I also understand that before things start to escalate, the Council of State will come back to the Storting and explain details, because it is clear that this raises some interesting questions. In connection with the Signe Eye mentioned, I just have to say that the Progress Party has not changed its attitude to our particular participation in Darfur. And now when Chad also comes into the picture, as we have heard before, I have to say, to put it mildly, that at least the Progress Party is very skeptical of this whole operation – operations in general in Africa – for many reasons. I don't have to get into that right now, but we can do that at a later stage. What we are wondering about here is, if necessary, mandates. But it is clear that you have to come back to that – I think so. Then there's a question about which soldiers we're going to send, maybe. We have a lot of soldiers in foreign operations, and we need more. Where are we going to pick up all these soldiers that we're still talking about? We've also reported to NATO, as far as I know, 1,500 soldiers who should be reasonably ready for possible evacuation. Are these the same soldiers we're talking about now? I have the impression that we are still reporting soldiers, at least to some extent, which are essentially the same soldiers. There are also questions about the level of equipment these soldiers need. Has safety been taken into account – as we have talked about in connection with Afghanistan – transport capacity, etc.? Otherwise, I must say that the Progress Party is initially sceptical about UN-led military operations. The UN has no good history of leading military operations. It is the NATO that has and has had, and therefore the Progress Party supports itself in the first row to NATO in terms of military operations. But otherwise, it's interesting, and good, that we've started Nordic cooperation – what it's going to lead to. That way we might be able to set larger units, and we could complement each other with equipment, etc. in such operations. It's positive. So right in that field, it's interesting with Nordic cooperation. In other areas of Nordic cooperation on the military side, there are a lot of questions you can ask, and you can be skeptical about a lot of it. But I thank you, as I said, for the statement and expect the Council of State to come back to the Storting, which she actually announced, and that we will then receive more detailed information.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e743	I would also like to thank you for the statement that has been given. The participation in the Nordic effort force was one of the initiatives that the government of Bondevik took and got through in the Stortingen with quite a broad support. I think it is positive that the Council of State mentions this contribution in such a positive way as she did, not least I think it is interesting that she put such emphasis on our participation in the European context. It delights my heart a lot, and considering that she speaks on behalf of all three parties in the Government, I am even happier when I hear it. It was also among the current government parties that the doubts in this matter were present, but the fact that the Council of State speaks on behalf of all three parties suggests that we now have a broad consensus behind our participation at the European level on this issue. Otherwise, I perceived that the Council of State was more informed than she was asking for views on new realities. We've been through many of these things before, but I think it's important that there's as much openness as possible about that kind of question. Therefore, I think it is valuable that the statement was made, even if the Storting should not take a decision on new facts in the matter. The news score was well in where it could possibly be about putting in the strength, and I take note of that. There is no doubt that the conflict in this area in Africa is a challenge to the world community, and if the EU can make a reasonable contribution, it is absolutely positive. I'm not here to polemize against other posts in this debate, but I just want to say to the articles of the Progress Party that I think that many of the bridges the representative Width thinks he's going to cross, he's actually already crossed the connection to this concept itself. That's why it's probably what we're going to consider, when it gets that far, that's a lot more limited than what we got from the last speech. It is also important to stress that when Norway has agreed to participate in the Nordic force in a larger European context, it is clear that the year zero does not begin when the entirely specific operation had to come to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e754	I would like to thank the Council of State for coming to the Stortinget early and informing about this. I think it's good that we get a good deal as early as possible in the process. In the new relevant debate, there is a strong number of places, so I hope that the Council of State can then say how many times our forces are counted, and where they are counted. At the same time, we are in a situation where we are out of the UN – from there ten years ago with about. 1,500 blue helmets we try to do good elsewhere. If the representatives think about this the last time we had debated it in the previous enlargement period, we expressed scepticism in the SV about participating in the Nordic Battle Group under the EU. We're not in the EU, so why are we gonna sneak around and get a foot inside? Then we're not in the SDP anymore, but we're in the European Defence Agency, the EDA. I guess that's what the smallest state is up to, it's going to be a little bit everywhere. It is probably a long line, perhaps the longest from this pulpit with Jørgen Løvland, who in 1905 clearly said that we must not go with the ‘European Warrior States’ – it is the League of Nations, it is the United Nations that is our way. If we look at the content of what we are doing, the Council of State also says that one in ten of the EU's operations are military. Maybe there's something here, something basic about how future operations are going to be. They're going to be more civilian than military. I see a very positive development here. At the same time, we need to see how this will affect the EU-NATO relationship, the transatlantic relationship. What we do as a small country is we put eggs in several baskets, and, as I said before, it can turn out in the long run to be reasonable. We look at what they're going to do, it's very clear that there are humanitarian and peacekeeping missions, crisis management and peace-building operations. At least it's not pre-purchasing. It may be on the way to what the UN is working a lot on now, which is called R to P, Responsible to Protect – the responsibility under international law that lies with everyone to protect those who need it. There are also positive experiences from the NATO Response Force, NRF. They've been used only for civil purposes. We saw it most in Pakistan. NATO used its lifting power, i.e. air capacity. They flew food in, and they flew out of the earthquake zone. No one protested at NATO's presence there. We have the same debate in Afghanistan on the civilian trail. From the military, a greater emphasis is placed on SIMIC, of course, focusing more on humanitarian aid and less on military capabilities. So here I also see what you've been doing in Sweden, and what you're going to do. It's transport control, it's sanitation, it's staff personnel in the various leadership operations. It also gives me a good reminder that we might be on the right track here. Perhaps the future Norwegian operations that lie here are leading both in NATO and in the UN, precisely because we do not see ourselves going out with huge amounts of strength, battlefield capacity, but with special functions, where Norwegian soldiers have very good tipping skills and can contribute to the UN, can contribute to making the African Union, better, etc. etc. I see a lot of positive signals here, because they have so much of training and civil decisions in them. So if it's possible -- the representative Petersen was also in on it -- to say more about it: how likely is it that we're coming, for example. To the east of Chad, and to what extent, if any, are we commanded to do so? Because it's clear that if there's a great probability of that, maybe we should start thinking about those paths right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e773	In a short time, on 1 January 2008, we will open a new chapter in Norwegian military policy history. Norway joins with other countries in one of the EU military battlegroups. They can be deployed in total from rescue operations to peacekeeping operations and sharp military combat operations in crisis situations outside Europe – almost anywhere in the world. It was therefore absolutely appropriate that the Minister of Defence gave the Stortinget a statement on the status of the EU military combat teams and the planned Norwegian participation in them. I thank the Council of State for the presentation, which provided useful information. The EU has long been an economic giant, but has been almost a midget in terms of military intervention elsewhere in the world. From a historical perspective, this is probably just one of several initiatives that will emerge from the EU’s common foreign and security policy. But it gives the EU a new military capacity. When Norway – also with the support of the Christian People's Party – addressed the plans for Norwegian participation in one of the EU's planned military intervention groups, we were on the one hand concerned with being able to make a Norwegian contribution where we have similar interests and views. In many ways, we have a common security. We often see that in our globalized world. On the other hand, we were concerned to ensure ourselves against being dragged into military operations that we did not want to be involved in. Therefore, we placed great emphasis on reaching a cooperation agreement that clarified the framework conditions. We wanted to ensure that the decision to participate was taken nationally, and we wanted to ensure that Norway maintained full control over the use of Norwegian forces. It was achieved. In addition, we were committed to a composition of the countries of our battle group that would have as many like-minded partners as possible. In a multinational fighting group, it is important that attitudes and culture are closely linked. The fact that the main emphasis of the response group is a Swedish-mechanised infantry battalion of about 2000 men supplemented with smaller contributions from Finland and Norway and a small contribution from Estonia seems to have been taken into account. The fact that we are like-minded also affects how countries assess current missions. For example: an old Union power that France would like to have had the Nordic battalion of Chad – which we also heard the Minister of Defence briefed on was an opportunity – where we know that France has had strong interests and traditions, probably Swedish and Norwegian premises for the assessment would be quite similar. In the response group, Norway will contribute around 150 people, mostly to support functions such as transport and sanitation, i.e. a field hospital. Recently, there was a lack of medical coverage for the Norwegian military forces in Afghanistan. It makes it important for the Christian People's Party to get a precise answer from the Minister on one question: Can the Council of State ensure that the configuration has sufficient surgical capacity and that Norway's sanitary contribution will not impair the necessary sanitation capacity required by our troops in Afghanistan? Within the EU, we have seen over the years several security policy contradictions that have slowed down the EU’s military capacity building. A tension has taken place on the loyalty of NATO cooperation and the Atlantic dimension versus the desire for an EU military capacity of its own. We have shared the scepticism of many European NATO allies to build up a doubling capacity in the EU, when we already have it in NATO. It can create rivalry, and it can be unnecessarily expensive with double setup. It is costly and demanding to deploy necessary intelligence, command capability and not least the capacity of what is termed strategic lift in NATO English, lifting capacity to carry heavy military material and rapid reaction forces around the world. We do not yet know whether the Nordic intervention force will be sent out on mission to spring, but it will be ready. For the Christian People's Party, it is essential that we be safe in that case for the purpose of the mission, for the quality of the planning and implementation and for the safety of Norwegian personnel to be well maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e796	Let me first thank you for good information and a good report from the Minister. In addition to the active membership of the UN and NATO, the Norwegian authorities have in recent years stressed the importance of participating in the EU's common security and defence policy. The main steps in this direction have been cooperation with Sweden, Finland and Estonia in the establishment of a Nordic EU intervention force and the establishment of a cooperation mechanism with the European Defence Agency, EDA. Nordic cooperation on safety, preparedness and rescue issues is important. Cooperation and better coordination between the Nordic countries in these areas will provide us with better services, as well as saving on some budgets. In recent years, the Government has been actively focusing on Nordic cooperation in general and Nordic defence cooperation in particular. Everyone knows the agreements relating to the Swedish fighter candidate JAS Gripen, where the agreements imply that Norwegian authorities have access to information, and that Norwegian industry is given the opportunity to participate in the development of the aircraft. The agreements do not mean that we have decided for the next generation of fighter aircraft, but they mean that cooperation with Sweden in this area is lifted at a completely different level than before. We have also signed an agreement between Norway and Sweden on artillery cooperation. A high potential for material acquisition, logistics, training and operational gains has been identified and the agreement may lead to the establishment in a few years of a unified artillery system by Norway and Sweden. A security cooperation agreement has also been signed between Iceland and Norway. This Agreement shall entail, inter alia: Norwegian aircraft practice in Iceland, and our Icelandic friends can train at Norwegian Defence Schools. Our two countries have common interests in a number of areas, and closer cooperation could help to ensure stability and security in the North Atlantic. Swedish and Finnish soldiers, together with Danish and Norwegian, participate in the so-called ISAF force in Afghanistan. This stabilisation force is managed by NATO. So the earlier marked distinction between members and non-members of the alliance is erased. Where the Cold War logic previously prevented the Nordic countries from participating together under NATO's command, new opportunities for Nordic communities have now opened up in the field. In just six months' time, the Nordic Battlegroup will be ready as part of the new EU effort force. Norwegian soldiers may then be sent out in international missions together with colleagues from Sweden, Finland, Estonia and Ireland. Once again, we see that the sharp boundaries between members and non-members are removed when like-minded countries want to join forces. This year, a ten-year project is being rounded up in which the Nordic countries have contributed to the conversion and construction of an independent defence sector in the Baltic countries. With the accession of the Baltic countries as members of NATO and the EU, it is natural that cooperation should change character. I will not hesitate to call this Nordic “fathership support” to our neighbouring countries at the Baltic Sea for a political success story, and the good experience of Nordic-Baltic cooperation is now being passed on to new projects. In the new Balkan countries, Nordic countries contribute a wide range of measures to support these countries, including: assistance to exercise democratic control over military forces and retraining of redundant personnel. The operational unit that we now agree on, I perceive to you that its activity is based on international law. It shall be based on a clear UN mandate. The cancellation shall be consulted and the Government shall take a decision. In other words, a reassuring process. I feel that this is following the Nordic track, an active European policy, the NATO track and the UN track further in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e817	The left has been in favour of approving the concept presented by the Minister of Defence here earlier today. We recognize the concept. I hear co-workers almost expressing concern that the procedures should not be carried out. There's enough procedures here, my concern is that sometimes I wonder what it really is. After sitting in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union on behalf of the Stortingen, I have to say that there are debates on this fighting group and other similar groups. Then you hear – in addition to what we all agree on – that there must be clear constitutional lashings, anchoring in international law, etc. – that when something really happens, there are so many operational constraints that you almost sit and wonder what you are doing. That's the perspective I need to put in. It's coming in very seriously in Afghanistan. There's nothing I'm going to bring in today, but it's there. As the Minister of Defence now outlines this Norwegian effort, I see clearly that it can be useful in many practical situations. I'd like to bring in a perspective that someone's been up to, but that I want to reinforce. That is the perspective that lies in the fact that there are four EU members and one non-member, namely Norway. In the context of NATO, it is members of NATO and non-Nato. So in the north, to the north and the Baltic region, it is a broad, heavy anchoring. This Nordic track I think is a very important track. Others have been involved. It is important for defence policy and security policy, but it also has a different anchor. Now, when we set up the way we do here, I believe that we also contribute to something that in other contexts can be useful to us when we are concerned that there should be structures of different kinds that can act as stabilising, ensuring low voltage and meaning something for our northern regions. Norway needs friends, and the fact that we ourselves work with others, calls for friends in a situation where there is a need for it. Then I think it's important to think broadly. It's friends through the NATO track. There are friends through this practical trail towards the EU. There are friends in the Nordic track. Not least the perspectives we have had in the past today, with the head of defence and the defence minister's joint analysis of what can happen in the north, it is quite important that we are able to have friends in every way, including security policy. So geopolitics are not happening far away from Norway. Norway itself is part of geopolitics because of our geographical location, because of the enormous natural resources that are north of us. When we think about it that way, we see that we're dealing with others, not just a humanitarian mission, which is important, it's also a real policy in the sense that when we set up for others, we also have something we can do in the day we might need to have conversations. With regard to the northern regions, which have been a topic in the past, I have a heavy and deep concern. There's almost no operational NATO concept left to the north. We probably have the surveillance planes from Orland, and not much more. I say it this way because such operational capacities that matter in a situation are quite crucial. They are crucial for what is the Minister of Defence's point here today, namely that you can enter into a crisis operation. You can go in and make a humanitarian effort, and you can ultimately be a peacemaker. All the capacities may be relevant in any concept aimed at keeping low voltage, but ultimately also controlling – let's call it limited military situations. That's exactly what the Minister of Defense presents to us. The left-hand side sees that concept as very important. And we see it as very important that Norway is involved in it. With these words, I think it is good that the Minister of Defence makes these statements in this way. I think it's better with a statement too much than one too little – for the reason that I think we need to develop a collective consciousness that might be a little stronger than the one we've had. For my part, I'm never going to stop taking along those parts of this collective consciousness that are about geopolitics for Norway being also about our northern regions. Geopolitics for Norway cannot be something that takes place far away in the world alone. We also have to think about where we ourselves are located, it's pretty important that we understand ourselves in such a role. We're next to some of the world's richest deposits of oil and gas. There is much to be said about it, but the proximity to that type of huge natural resources is itself a major challenge for our country. Let me conclude by saying that the mission that I have received on behalf of the Storting, together with fellow magistrates, to draw this landscape in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western Union, we take that, and we have done that. And we have managed to express a debate in which, as I believe, we must do in all other international parliamentary contexts in which Norway participates. It's building networks. It's building alliances. It's making sure of friends, when we can also be friends with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e839	Let me first begin by agreeing with what Mr. Dørum said about having friends. It is important for Norway both that we can cooperate in the EU, that we can cooperate in NATO, that we can cooperate in the Nordic region, and that through our cooperation and through our dialogue with those with whom we work, we can make them look north – make them see that this is a strategic area that is important far beyond the borders of Norway. So I very much support the points of view that came out. I also note the broad support of the Storting for the government's policy in such an important matter. It is also true that this is a matter that we have taken over from the previous Storing and the previous government. So we're going to follow up on what we've gone into. The representative, Width, asks questions about mandates — but that is what needs to be determined by the operation — and also whether there are dedicated staff. The staff assigned to the Nordic intervention force have been trained and trained for a long time, and there are dedicated personnel. It's not a fictitious staff who's on a list, but people who know they're on standby. And that's to a large extent sanitary personnel. The representative of Sahl asked whether this was also the case of personnel who could have been used in Afghanistan. Yes, they could have been used in Afghanistan, but here a decision has been made by the Stortinget in the past to participate in Nordic intervention forces, as well as about the types of staff to participate in. At that time, sanitary staff were a significant part of that intervention force. Port command is one part, transport control another, and then there's staff personnel, as I said. There were also questions about how likely it is that we can get in and participate in Chad. It might be likely, it might be more likely than before, but it's very hard to predict about it, and I want to get back to this. As far as the representative Jacobsen was concerned, the EU has the same capacity as the United Nations to conduct integrated operations, because it has resources in many fields and can therefore contribute beyond the military. The action force concept is based on rapid and flexible deployment to deal with international crises, as I also said in the presentation. Therefore, the concept depends on the speed with which any deployment decision could be made. As I see it, there is a strong ambition for this intervention force to be able to be deployed if necessary. In that case, I will return to Stortinget in that context. It is important to conclude that there is a national decision-making process that will underpin the possible deployment of Norwegian forces in an EU-led operation. The government will therefore, of course, follow the established practice of decisions on contributions in international operations and consult the Storting in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-28.ana.ud2175e858	The debate on the presentation is closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Defence on the status of Norwegian participation in the Nordic intervention force be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The map of the day is then finished. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
