ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e38	Representatives of Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Vidar Bjørnstad, Lise Christoffersen, Karin S. Woldseth, Bjørn Jacobsen, Per-Kristian Foss, Øyvind Waksdal, Åge Starheim and Jorodd Asphjell, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the South Tribute County, Randi Sollie Denstad, has taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative Eirin Fallet from 23 April until further notice from the representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum on maternity leave from 23 April until 27 April On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representatives of the goods of Hedmark County of Tone Merete Sønsterud and Arnfinn Nergård are invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e104	Tone Merete Sønderud and Arnfinn Nergård are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e110	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Marit Nybakk. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Marit Nybakk are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e117	The representative, Odd Einar Dørum, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e120	I have the pleasure on behalf of the representative Gunnar Kvassheim and myself to propose increased research efforts at the Zeppelin Observatory in New Ålesund.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e125	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16:00, until the current map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e143	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group and three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e154	‘But the new social security system, and in particular the public pension system, is very expansionary. The assumption is a policy that generally leads to a strong economic expansion. At the same time, according to the pension scheme, each pension should be made better and better. We can't build such a system and then just say that the next generation is going to be so good at paying ever higher pensions to more and more older people." I will start today's debate with this quote. It was taken from the debate in Odelstinget on 9 and 10 June 1966 on the introduction of popular security and was from no one less than Trygve Bratteli. The debate at the time went over two days and the rapporteur had 60 minutes of speaking time. It was times! The case rapporteur, Halfdan Hegtun, said so much, among other things. in the debate: ‘ The public’s fear does not become a mild gift to anyone. [[...]] It is to be paid – as everything else – by ourselves, by our work and production. Every Norwegian citizen will be involved in the construction of the new scheme in everyday life.’ Trygve Bratteli was a wise man. Halfdan Hegtun was – and is – a wise man. The introduction of the population's population from 1967 was groundbreaking. A new epoch was in progress. When writing the history of the development of Norway as a welfare society, it is likely that on 1 January 1967 the most important date will be. Social security is a solidarity between groups and generations, where we set each other up at different times in life. Social security is the main element of the overall pension system in Norway. It should be in the future, too. Social security should provide economic and social protection for all citizens, but it requires that it is economically sustainable. Since 1967, Norwegian society has undergone major changes. In relation to today's debate and challenges for our old age pension system, I would like to highlight three developments in these 40 years of particular interest: We go to work later because we go further to school.We leave work earlier. We live longer and longer. This is challenging. The basis for our common well-being is work and the revenues that this gives us. The labour force is the country's most important resource. So we have to align ourselves so that the total value of work can increase over the years to come. Today, the theme is a new model of retirement and retirement pensions in the population. Or, in a slightly different way, now we're changing the age pension in the population so that one gets more left to work. Average life expectancy is expected to increase significantly by 2050. Then we can't continue to retire ever earlier. If we live longer, we also have to work longer. Those who put the population back in 1967 had perspectives and clear goals. We too, who are the elected 40 years later, must have that. It is those who are happy in the fear of the people and who are its defenders who must go first on the train and make sure that the people's peace is economically sustainable in 40 – or 50 years. The 2005 Stockholm Pensions Agreement provided the basis for the proposal under consideration today. The 2005 agreement outlined the broad lines for the new age pension model in the population population and has been a clear work order, first to the Bondevik II government and after the 2005 election to the Stoltenberg II government. Today, we are changing the model of old-age pension within the framework of the unique people's protection system. Let me stress, however, that there are a number of other issues that need to be considered if we are to succeed in making people work longer and in increasing total value creation. A better senior policy and action for a more inclusive working life is crucial here. However, other policy areas, for example, need to be involved. family policy and immigration policy. But today it's about retirement. I am very pleased and satisfied that a new broad pension settlement has been concluded in Stortinget. 21 March 2007 will be a new historic day, the day of the agreement. In relation to the starting point of the government parties, the reconciliation involves some changes to the model: There will be service provision for unremunerated care of up to six years per year. children.Annual income up to 7.1 times the basic amount of the population’s money, G, shall be pensionable – at the lower end of SEK 450,000. There will be service provision for those who serve military service for at least six months. In addition, a new tax-stimulated private pension saving scheme will be introduced from 2008. I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left for our success in the efforts to enter into a new pension settlement. Negotiations are giving and taking. That's why we all had to jeopardize ourselves to get this into port. Future generations can be happy about that. The broad consensus ensures long-term security and sustainability for current and future pensioners. With today's decision, from 2010, we will have a retirement pension model that includes all years of income. I'm deliberately using the wording that this is going to be a more "fair" system than today's system, sail if I tend to be careful about using the term "fair" when we discuss retirement. In the new system, a non-minimum pensioner becomes if you have had income — a manifest improvement in relation to today’s system. Let me also say that it is now possible to withdraw an old age pension from the age of 62. There will be a flexible system where a seaman chooses — between 62 and 70 years old — when he will start taking out an old age pension. And if one to one is 63 instead of 62, the pension is going to be higher every year. If you work one by one is 64, your pension is getting a little higher every year. In addition, one in the new system can work as much as one in addition to the pension, without the pension being curtailed. Today some complicated legislation on what you can earn in addition to pensions is gone. I had the pleasure of sitting with the Pension Commission from 2001 to 2004. The progress party member of the Commission, a conscientious and hardworking woman, was not on the majority model. Instead, the Progress Party presented its own model. Let me quote from the Advance Party's suggestion in the Pension Commission's vote: ‘This member therefore applies to a pension scheme with an equal pension benefit to all from the government. A benefit similar to the minimum present pension, or of such a size that it is possible to live up to it, should be granted to all citizens of retirement age.» This is in accordance with the programme of the Progress Party. Let me quote: ‘The party wishes a popular pension, which shall be the same for all in the long term.’ But what the Progress Party believes today is certainly not easy to get wise. In the setting they say: ‘These members will maintain the current system, with some adjustments’. Is that what the party meant in the Pension Commission we're going to believe, is that the party program, or is that what's coming out of today's setting? Whatever the answer to that question, we can state that the Progress Party does not want to address the challenges facing the current pension system. When you think about it, it may not be very surprising. Having a horizon of 40 or 50 years is said to be too much demanded by a populist party. This is a historic day. Now we're going to put in place the new system of earning and withdrawing retirement. It is one of the most important pieces of the new pension system to come into force from 2010. However, let me stress that there are large elements that remain before the new pension scheme is in place: non-pension public occupational pension and defined-age pension There will be many debates on pensions in the Grand Duchy over the last two and a half years remaining before the introduction of the new system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e259	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e262	The representative Myrli says in his post that we're going to get out of work later, we're leaving work earlier, and we're living longer. On 19 March, the representative Myrli had a chronicle in Dagbladet entitled “The Great Fight for Welfare”. In the chronicle he writes, among other things. in the case of AFP: «The contrast is large to the factory worker or home help for which the contract pension scheme was originally intended.» We also know that in recent times there has been a good deal of debate around the AFP in connection with the age pension reform that we are dealing with today. Will the Workers' Party continue the AFP in its current form? Or does the Workers' Party also realize that changes must be made to make the AFP, as Myrli writes in that chronicle, come back to its original level and apply to those who have such professions that they are considered to be labourers?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e272	I can confirm that the Workers' Party and the majority want to continue the contractual pension, the AFP. Those who have a long professional career, those who are workers in the labour market, who have been part of and built up the welfare society, must be able to leave the labour market in a dignified way. Many of these people have both 40 and 50 years of work. It was just to be lacking that they should not have ways of leaving the profession that are worthy. What a future contractual pension should look like is for the social partners to decide, together with the authorities, after the main settlement in 2008. There shall still be a contractual pension. How the details should be, I can't answer. No one can, because it's not clear yet. At least I'm sure they won't be exactly as they are today. But there should be a targeted arrangement for those who need it, and those who need to leave early, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e279	The pension reform was presented by the centre-right government and is now made concrete by the red-green government. I share the satisfaction of the case rapporteur that we have succeeded in reaching a broad settlement. In issues where predictability and long-termity are particularly important, there is a strength in Norwegian policy that we can find reconciliation across the blocksides. My question is also related to the AFP. Now maybe the representative took his mouth a little too full when he said in this regard that people have been working for 50 years. Child labour is probably not allowed in Norway. But there are many people who have a very long career, and the Right agrees that we should have an AFP scheme. However, I ask Myrli to confirm two facts. One is that the AFP scheme should be based on the same principles as the new pension scheme, namely to stimulate work. The second is that the AFP scheme is part of the pension system and that its concrete nature must also be anchored in the same broad majority of the Storting as the pension reform we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e286	I didn't think it would be surprising for Sanner that people have 50 years of working life. It should be borne in mind that a fixed-term pension was made for people who started to work at maybe 14 to 15 years of age and had no opportunity to lose anything but a disability pension if they were worn out when they were 65 to 66 years old. Those people often had 50 years or more in the workplace. Today, we have substantially fewer years in the world of work, at least most of them. Yes, I fully agree: the AFP of the future will be adapted to the new population. And the new population will stimulate work – one will get back to work. It's also going to have to be arranged for the AFP. However, how the model should look concretely and how many are to be covered by the new AFP scheme, no one can respond to it before the main settlement between the social partners in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e293	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The so-called alternate of Oslo, Karin Yrvin, has taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e301	Today is a dark day for the country. It is simply a solid blue day for both today's and future pensioners. The agreed agreement on a new age pension system between the government parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left is nothing more than a solid savings reform that deprives people of pensions. The underregulation of the basic amount from the time of Gro Harlem Brundtland continues. The flexible Best Year rule will be removed. This is only for the government to save money. There won't be any more retirement for the people of these grips. Statements from the conciliation partners in the media reveal the truth that the reform will not have consequences for today's pensioners, nor for those who lose their pensions in the coming years. This is directly wrong, and I think it is shameful that the political majority does not inform about the actual consequences of the new regime for the country's pensioners, both today's and the future. We have all heard from both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour and Inclusion that no one will get less, everyone will get more. I will not venture on the path of claiming that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and Minister of Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen are lying. But it's obvious that they have so much respect for the truth that they don't say it. When the Government's model adds up to 20 pst. lower pension costs for the state in 2050, looking forward to continuing today's model, I think most people understand that there will be less pensions for future pensioners. It is not appropriate for the Progress Party to change the pension scheme only in order to save money. The Progress Party believes it is important to form a simple and fair system. There is little doubt that there are many groups that will lose on the conversion to the new pension scheme. I have also registered with interest the agreement that is set out in the setting, and also the requirements of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left have promoted in connection with this settlement. It's interesting to note several things, and how little impact these parties have actually gained after a long winter's negotiations. The pension benefit was required to be 8 G. What was passed on was an increase of 0.1 G, i.e. SEK 6 289. After all, one is tempted to ask the question: Can this be seen as a handshake for those with long education? I don't think those with long education will feel that this is a handshake. I don't think they'll feel that this is what makes them get strengthened and compensated for by the new system. It also called for the reintroduction of a private pension saving scheme with a tax advantage, which would stimulate pension savings in line with previous private schemes, or better. The opposition's requirement was that this should come into force from 2007. The result was a new scheme from 2008 with a savings of NOK 15 000. - Not exactly something to cheer on! It is true that batches are free to propose a higher savings amount and to reintroduce previous annuity rules. I challenge the other parties to support the proposal for a representative to be discussed in Stortinget, Document No. 8:52, where you actually add up to a better individual pension saving scheme than what it's added up to here. Recruitment requirements have also been promoted for all those who have earned first-time service. But this was something that the government had already included in its big message. What was passed on was that everyone would get it after six months, not nine months, as suggested in the notification. However, the three batches – they will have to boast – have a clear impact on better performance rules for unremunerated care. Here we have a solution that is fully in line with what the Progress Party is proposing. But I think probably many of the members of the opposition parties and the elected representatives, and not least, are somewhat disappointed by the reconciliation of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been made on behalf of their voters, for there is little impact in it. The majority propose that the old-age pension paid be regulated annually by average price and salary growth, and the new rules will apply to all old-age pensioners as of 2010. This means that current and future pensioners who will receive pensions from 2010 onwards will have a worse growth than the current scheme suggests. For every year you are a pensioner, all old-age pensioners will reduce their purchasing power compared to the active ones. The proposal for a new indexation by pensioners also takes the following two steps, which, in the view of the Progress Party, is a clear deterioration for pensioners: Firstly, pensioners are deprived of the opportunity to negotiate with the State on the regulation of pension rights. Pensioners will have lower income development than the employees. The percentage gap will be larger for each year. The Progress Party does not want to give pensioners the feeling of being second-rate citizens. Therefore, the Progress Party will agree that pensioners should continue to have the right to promote their interests through negotiations with the State. The Progress Party believes that the pension settlement should continue to be a pay settlement and also promotes proposals in line with it. Secondly, perhaps the most important and the most negative approach taken in the new reform is the removal of the year-on-year rule. The year-end rule has – there is little doubt about – a strong social profile and is much more life-stage friendly than the year-on-year rule. Today we have hundreds of thousands of part-time jobs. The Best Year rule takes into account the exchange of full-time and part-time time. With the new rules, the pension will be reduced for life by only one year in part-time. Many of today's 641,000 active people in Norway who work part-time will lose large pension payments in the age pension agreement. Let me give you one concrete example: a person who works 20 years full-time and then 20 years in a 50 pst. position, could lose approx. 42 000 kroner a year in retirement with the new scheme. These aren't numbers that the Progress Party has invented itself, but that's calculated by Chief Economist Erik Orskaug in UNIO. So some might say that this won't be a problem, because more and more people will choose to work full time. Then I'd like to quote what Orskaug said to Nettavisen on November 13, 2006: ‘We can hope that more people will want to work full-time in the future, but large groups in the world of work will be more closely connected to the labour market for many years to come than full-time workers in all years. These will lose a great deal of weight on the new proposal for a common foreign and security policy.' The fact that the Progress Party will maintain the current pension system means that we would also keep the support of today's welfare society, namely the best-year rule. This would be an important contribution, among other things. to all those who work in the care professions and who have involuntary part-time work. This would lead to a far better outcome for those with long studies than is proposed in the new scheme. There is, of course, a paradox in many ways, and it is not enough to reconcile the need of the nation to invest in knowledge, that it is precisely those who need to be encouraged to acquire the knowledge that is now being penalised by the new pension system. There is also a good deal from the Government and the Minister that the minimum pension trap has now been abolished. It is possible that the minimum pension trap has been abolished, but my reverential claim is that the Workers' Party, the Center Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left establish a new poverty trap, precisely because the minimum pensioners are not protected for the life-time adjustment that is taking place in the new system. Today, a minimum pensioner has approx. NOK 113 000 to live for. In the proposal for a new old-age pension scheme, the majority say that you should have a guarantee pension of the current level — the size of the current level. If we look forward to 2050, and provided that those who have a guarantee pension, i.e. the minimum pensioners, have to reduce their pension by 20 pst, a future minimum pensioner will have about 91,000 dollars to live for. That is, no matter what definition you put on, you're going to be below the poverty line. In this way a new trap of poverty is created. It is only the Progress Party that is proposing concrete solutions in this case today to avoid this, precisely by proposing a guarantee pension of 2 G, i.e. at the lower end of NOK 126 000, and in addition proposing that it be protected against the negative consequences of the life-time adjustment. So you could say that the minimum pensioners of the future will not be the same kind of minimum pensioners as you have today. That's in and out of control. More and more, both women and men, are taking part in the labour market. Looking back historically, women were mostly at home in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s and took care of children and cared for their parents and parents-in-law, while men were out working. Many of these women are minimum pensioners today. Today, of course, the proportion of women in working life is much higher, and these will not be minimum pensioners. But who will be the new minimum pensioners? Well, they're all, the weakest in this society. They're the ones who somehow can't be part of their professional life. This applies to people who at an early age have a chronic disease that prevents them from participating in the labour market. This applies to people with disabilities who cannot go out to work, and this includes, among other things: relate to people with large disabilities who are unable to participate in the labour market. These are the ones that won't get a job in the future, because they don't have any labour income. As long as you are outside the labour market and do not have one penny of earnings, you will become a guarantee pensioner, as the Council of State also said at the press conference when the notification was made. I am proud that the Progress Party today is presenting concrete proposals that safeguard the pensioners' vested rights. The Progress Party already said in the spring of 2005, when the pension reform was being discussed and we did not get in agreement with our primary model in the Pension Commission – so it should not be a big surprise to the representative Myrli that the Progress Party today is making proposals under existing pension systems – that since the Progress Party had not received a majority in its view, nor had it been given enough attention in relation to the investigation, we would continue to work to maintain the current system, with some adjustments. That is what the Progress Party is proposing. We're proposing to keep today's system, but we're also proposing to remove any abbreviation between married and cohabiting pensioners, so that everyone gets 100 pst. basic pension regardless of marital status. We are introducing a guarantee pension that is far higher than today's minimum pension, a guarantee pension that is at a level that both the Association of Pensioners believes is right and that prevents future minimum pensioners from living below the poverty line. We're introducing a flexible withdrawal of retirement from 62 years, but we're keeping the year-old rule. In addition to keeping the Best Year rule, we're going to give students a better record than what it's put up to by the majority. We improve the performance basis for care work. We also introduce service provision for guardians. The model of the Progress Party, or proposals in this case, is well referenced in the vote. We believe that our proposals show that pensioners are being cared for in the future. Several have asked concrete questions as to whether there is such a need to make the big cuts as this one is put up to by the majority. Both Professor of Social Sciences Bjørgulf Clausen and pension counsellor Harald Engelstad say that there is very much doubt that no concrete evidence has been presented to suggest that you should or must make large savings in the future, but that you can still use today's model, which will be a much better model and a much fairer and simpler model than what the majority currently put up with. That is why today is unfortunately a black day for the country's pensioners. Today, the majority of people say good-bye to perhaps one of the greatest welfare policy reforms we have seen, that is, the people's fear introduced in 1967. There is no doubt a big blue day for both the future and today's pensioners, who will no doubt get less in retirement with the new system. At the same time, their pension payments will be subdued annually in such a way that they lose each year as pensioners in relation to the economically active. That injustice will distance the Progress Party from, and therefore I am delighted to take up the proposals that the Advance Party is promoting and that are referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e348	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e354	The party says today that they want to maintain today's system, with some adjustments. In 2005 the Progress Party also stated in the retirement position, but then it was understood that it was a short-term scheme and that the long-term objective was, in line with the party programme, an equal age pension for all. Some press releases may suggest that the party programme's formulations on equal pensions to all are no longer the policy of the Progress Party. So the question is simple and straightforward: is it a short-term and long-term goal, and is the long-term goal still equal to retirement for all – or is the party program abandoned? And finally, I really have to ask questions in connection with that I heard Eriksson talk about the issue of earnings for those who have involuntary part-time. Is Eriksson and the Progress Party aware of what is in the proposal in relation to earning for those who have involuntary part-time and unemployed? I ask the question in another way: which of the things that now change for those who work involuntary part-time or for those who are unemployed is the Progress Party against?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e363	There is little doubt that the best-year rule will be much better and provide a much higher pension than the annual rule, precisely because the average of the 20 best-years in any case will yield higher earnings than if you base all the years. That's why everyone will have a worse pension with the new system. In other words, if you're going to get a better pension, you have to work a lot longer. In fact, I also think that the majority parties should be honest enough and say, yes, you'll get your hourly salary reduced by $10, but you'll get better pay. To do that, you have to work longer. This must also be done with the new pension system, as opposed to today's system that maintains and maintains the best-year rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e370	There was no answer to any of my questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e375	The debate on pensions shows that the Progress Party continues – and I regret to say – to be marked by short-term thinking. The income of the pension fund is weakened by providing heavy tax packages to oil companies, by absorbing the pension fund through continuous expenditure increases, and by increasing pension expenditure today by promoting proposals that contribute to increased pension expenditure. According to a letter we received today from the Department, which has looked at the arrangement of the Progress Party, pension expenditure in 2050 would be DKK 6 billion higher than with the majority proposal. This creates uncertainty for future pensioners, facing the choice of reducing costs or increasing taxes. When the Progress Party acts in this way, my question is this: Is this because the Progress Party sees that the majority still guarantees a responsible line, and that therefore one can act that way, or is it simply because the Advance Party is not so much concerned about the long-term effects?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e384	Well, the Progress Party is concerned with the long-term effects. For this reason, the Progress Party has also submitted an overall proposal to the State budget every year which will lead to increased value creation in Norway. With increased value creation, you will also be able to continue and maintain the pension system we have today, with some adjustments. The exact same thing is also claimed from among others. Professor of Social Security, Bjørgulf Clausen. We can afford to maintain the current pension system because the value creation will continue to be much higher in the future. The Government's estimates have also contributed to a good deal of growth. The proposals of the Progress Party will lead to even higher growth in value creation, which will make our pension system sustainable for a long, long time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e391	In a situation where one abandons one's own programme and makes proposals that are an adjustment to what has been strongly opposed in the past, I understand that a very high vote needs to be put in place – in order to defend the proposals presented today by the Progress Party to the Storting, one must have a high vote and use force. The minimum pensioners are part of what the Progress Party has focused on and that there is every reason to look at. We know that there are lone minimum pensioners who are struggling. A lone minimum pensioner has approx. 35 pst. of the income of an ordinary employee. Lone minimum pensioners also have far less than married pensioners additional income. The Progress Party does not wish to target specific measures against single minimum pensioners but chooses to contribute to the reconciliation between single and married. Does the Progress Party see that social effects can be distorted in relation to those who are really poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e398	It is obvious that the representative Sundsbø has not read the statement, because the Progress Party proposes that all minimum pensioners should have a minimum pension equal to 2 G, i.e. at the lower end of NOK 126 000, while the majority, of whom Sundsbø is part, say that the minimum pensioners of the future, i.e. guarantee pensioners, should have a pension at the present level, while regulating it down in the future. That means that the Progress Party actually sees what Sundsbø is asking for, and therefore has proposed NOK 13 000 more a year in a strengthened pension for lone minimum pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e403	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e406	It is a strength that in Norwegian policy we can find solutions across block boundaries on issues where predictability and long-termity are crucial. Retirement is such a matter. The pension reform has been dealt with and presented in various phases of the reform work of two different governments, first by the civil government and now concretely by the red-green government, and it is based on two conciliations in the Grand Duchy. The need for pension reform is well documented. Nevertheless, we hear from some, and, ironically, from those who want to use even more of the pension fund, that there is no need for a pension reform because we have such a large pension fund. Let me just point to two relationships. One is that in Norway we have a growth in pension expenditure at the top of Europe, even after the pension reform, the pension share of gross domestic product up to 2050 will go from below 6 pst. to 12 pst. In other words, the pension expenditure as a share of the value creation will double during that period, and it puts us at the top of Europe. The second is that the pension liabilities already entered into by the country are much larger than the pension fund. Let me also add that it is not unusual for Norway to have a pension fund. What is peculiar to Norway is that while most other European countries have large private pension funds, in Norway we have a large state pension fund. Our challenge, therefore, is not to bottle up the State pension fund but to promote private savings so that we can achieve a better balance between government and private savings. This is important to secure pensions in the future. Since the beginning of the 1990s, the right has underlined the importance of bringing about a pension reform. The aim of a pension reform is to provide greater security for both current and future pensioners. Not all pensioners, either in the Western world, can feel confident that the pension is on their accounts every month. I believe that through a pension reform, we are helping to create greater security for the pension. The second important thing about pension reform is to avoid putting a cost bomb on future taxpayers. If you are not willing to implement a pension reform today, tomorrow’s politicians will face a choice between heavy expenditure reductions and strong tax increases. That's why it's important that we think in the long term. It is important that we continue to build up the pension fund, because it is not the case, as I have been told, that the pension fund will even cover all the pension obligations that the state has entered into today. Secondly, it is important that we now implement a reform that contributes to reducing the growth of pension expenditure. Equally important is the promotion of the working line, which is to make it more profitable to work longer. The basis of the pension reform is based on the proposals of the Pension Commission and on the proposal put forward by the Centre-Right Government and addressed in the spring of 2005. This foundation is also established after the concreteisation of the Red-Green Government and the agreement signed in Stortinget. I'm glad that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left have been united throughout this process. In some areas, we thought that there was a need for changes in the concreteisation that had been presented by the red-green government. But this is about adjustments to a proposal, because the very foundation of the pension reform is also in line with the proposal that we agreed to make. We are happy that we have an improved care score system. We would have liked to be able to raise the income tax rate in the pension scheme or introduce pension credits for students. We also worked to improve private pension schemes. I'm not going to hide that we reacted to the red-green government lowering the benefit ceiling in the pension. The recovery ceiling is important to make the public’s return relevant for all income groups. I'm a little surprised that the left-hand side and the social democrats don't see the importance of popular concern being relevant to all income groups. For some income groups, even when the profit ceiling is at 7.1 G, you will experience a rather severe decline in remuneration when you retire. This means that some income groups will invest in other forms of pension insurance, thereby reducing the relevance of the population’s return. We thought it was important to raise the revenue ceiling just in order for all income groups to feel that the people's interest is relevant to them. The other is linked to the long-term trainers. Lowering the revenue ceiling makes the long-term graduates get relatively worse. For this reason, the bourgeois parties were working hard either to raise the income ceiling or to raise the pension rate for students. This is also the case, as we stressed when this was put forward, that last round we thought it was more important to have a student's pension score than to get the marginal increase in the profit ceiling, but we had to note that the government parties were not willing to make such an exchange. So, some ask the question, when you have not been able to make the most of your primary requirements, how can you still support a pension reform? It is simply because the very foundation of the pension reform, the promotion of the working line and the reduction of expenditure growth are in line with the proposal we ourselves made. In one area, however, we can see that the Stortinget divides into two, and that is in the view of private savings. For the Right, it is fundamentally positive that people save private savings. Taking responsibility for one's own life and not just leaning back and trusting in government savings, and thinking long-term, is important to the Right. We also believe that many people will need to save in addition to the public pension. Not everyone can relate to a state A4 scheme, but they need a more flexible solution, maybe because you're going a little into and out of work, or maybe just because you're not at work. In addition, we believe it is important to achieve a better balance between government and private savings. What makes Norway a different country in terms of pensions in Europe is that where other countries have a high level of private savings, we have a high level of State savings in Norway. I'm glad we've had an impact on saving the third pillar of the pension scheme. Of course, we would have wanted even further progress, but at least that means that the third pillar stands there – if anything – until the 2009 elections, but it is our wish that we should gradually be able to strengthen that element of the future pension system. It's rare that I get as many and as strong reactions as I got when the government with a pen stroke failed its obligations in the private pension schemes – from disability pensioners who had saved in individual annuity, employees who used collective annuity, or the many who used IPA, private pension savings. I think it's important that the government parties also learn lessons from that case, because if there's something the government shouldn't do, it's breaking its obligations to individuals. But as I said, we've got this spice leg back in place. I am pleased that a new scheme will now be put in place that will apply from 2008. What will also be a discussion is the tax rules that relate to the new private pension scheme. On the right-hand side, we believe that there should be a symmetry of taxation, so that when you get 28 pst. less the money you pay, it should also be 28 pst. taxation of the money you take out. I also expect that we will have a discussion about both individual and collective annuity in the future. The right is happy that we have reached a settlement. It creates greater security for both current and future pensioners. It is important for the generation accounts. As politicians, we not only have a responsibility for our voters today, but we also have responsibility for those who do not have the right to vote, but who will subsequently assume responsibility for Norway. We want to have a balance in that generation account.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e442	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e445	There St.meld. No 5 was presented last autumn, right on the track and criticized and was dissatisfied with the fact that they had not earned any money for students. The right also stated that it was absolutely essential for them to have a system that provided them with long studies in order to enter into a settlement. On 31 January this year, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left promoted a pre-debate requirement in four points. Why wasn't earning for students one of these demands when it was so important to the Right rhetorical in the debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e451	It is a little special that that question is asked from the Progress Party! The Progress Party has nothing – absolutely nothing – to point out to the long-term graduates. A proposal for a pension reform that creates uncertainty for future pensioners and places a cost bomb on future taxpayers. So the Progress Party at all asks that question, I think it's a little ironic. That being said, in fact, in our demands to the Government we stated that we wanted to increase the rate of return, or, alternatively, the pension rate for students. And the representative Eriksson knows very well that the Right, Christian People's Party and Left insisted that we wanted student earnings up to the last, and that we also wanted it over 0.1 pst. increase in the revenue ceiling, but we had to note that the government parties were not willing to meet us there. But we believe, after all, that the system we've now set up is better than the alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e458	Let me quickly commend Right will to be on a broad pension settlement across position and opposition. At the same time, there is no doubt that the Right for the future has ambitions for closer cooperation with the Advance Party – it is widely known. Then I have a question for Sanner, and it's not to be ugly towards the Right, but it's because I'm sincerely interested in the answer. For I wonder what does the Right really think about the failure of the Progress Party to be on the team to ensure the security of future pensions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e465	I have expressed that both in a line to the Progress Party, in the reply to the line from the Progress Party and in my post, so I have no need to underline it. Apart from that, I would like to say that once we have entered into an agreement with other parties on pensions, we will of course stand by this agreement also after a government change in 2009. The right has always shown that we're a party to trust. We believe that it is important in this kind of welfare issue that today's and the future's pensioners can relate to something that is predictable and that is long-term. We're very happy that we've got it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e470	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e473	Pension is the foundation of the welfare state. It is the basis of social justice and living conditions, and it is the basis for those who cannot have income from a job on which they can support themselves. The retirement age in the population is kind of the foundation of the whole system on which all the other arrangements are based, and that's the foundation we're going to lay today. There's a broad settlement behind what's being presented today. Changes are needed because the present system is unfair in several areas. The SV's starting point from the Pension Commission was a different model that gave better dithering than the Pension Commission's model. It was because we wanted low pay to get a better pension than what was underlying in the Pension Commission's report. Therefore, SV did not participate in the 2005 conciliation. We had our own model. In the negotiations for a government platform on Soria Moria, SV accepted the framework for the conciliation. The government's proposal for a system is far better than the Pension Commission's proposal, especially because the pension of the low-wages has improved. For SV, the distribution profile of the pension system has been decisive. One of the reasons for that is what we know about living conditions, health and life expectancy. It's the famous gradient challenge that tells us that if you have good finances, you also live longer, and then you can, of course, take out more pensions in all systems. If you are low-paid or have really bad advice, you live shorter, and that's why you get less of the pension you earned. Therefore, it is incredibly important that the pension scheme takes good care of those who are low-paid and therefore does not have such a high level of retirement. So the government's proposal to the Storting was far better than that based on the Pension Commission's report. This is the main reason why SV is behind the proposal. It's been absolutely crucial. So it's also important to say that pension is a whole. People's religion is kind of the foundation. But it's going to be very important now to see how disability is going to be, and how the continuation of the AFP, OTP and occupational pension is going to be in the future. Some of what is new now, which is referred to in the Communication as a welfare reform, is that it is possible to retire early at the age of 62. There is no general new retirement age, but there should be an opportunity – there is not today – for those in a situation where they need to go away at that time but are not covered by the AFP scheme. They have no other option than disability benefit today. And it could be a very tight loop. So there's going to be a possibility with the new system, but it's clear that for those who have a poor record, this doesn't necessarily make sense in practice. The reason for the introduction of the AFP system was to give a decent leave to those who were worn out and who did not have the energy to stand at 67 years. I really need to say – because I am a little over the debate about this sometimes – that it is not unworthy of disability. There is a right that it should not follow shame, and there is nothing that anyone should envy those who need it. So I need to say that. But it takes time often to get dissatisfaction. It can be a demanding experience, and the process can be demeaning to some. This is, of course, one of the things that needs to be addressed in the NAV reform, but I need to stress that when the disability benefit is to be reviewed on the basis of the NOU that comes in May, it is important that we do not establish a system that pushes people into a very poor retirement pension after 62 years. It is extremely important that this system function fairly, that the possibility of unearthed retirement be maintained. One important thing in the new system is that all income should be counted. The progress party was up here and said that for those in half the position, the best rule of the year was the best. Yes, there may be examples showing that, but in the new system, this half position will count. So if you have an involuntary part-time job and are registered to NAV, you have a full-time pension. That means that there are a lot more of those who are in such a situation, who are going to be able to make a full profit. First of all, they're going to get half their earnings if they want half their salary, and they're going to be able to earn full profit from the new system. So it's like all systems reward those who can work more, they get higher pensions. It's going to be kind of rewarding those that are the freshest. I think we just have to realize that that's the way it is. But then there's the extra effort triggered by this, which makes value creation increase. That's what we're going to live on. And that's what we're going to pay not only the increased pensions with – because it comes; with all the arrangements we've put forward today, it does, because the system itself provides a better profit for more, and there are many more – but it's also how many more will need care and health care. It is very important for SV that we manage to ensure a good level of this. Now it's hard to predict economic prospects in the future. If you had compared the outlook in 1967 to what we have in 2007, I think we might have seen that it wasn't exactly what you said. We don't know what it's like in 2050 either. But what is important is to make sure that we do the funding of the increased welfare services that are coming. They come to the top of the pension expenditure. For SV it's very important. SV may not be the party that is most afraid to take ‘increased tax’ in its mouth. But there is a limit to how much tax can increase to finance both the large, increased expenditure on pensions and the needs we have for care services. Then it's incredibly important that we work intensively for an inclusive working life. If it is to pay off working, there must also be rules that make working life actually accept both the workforce who has passed the senioral age – I understand that I have gradually included myself in the sea – and those who have different health limitations. That's absolutely necessary, because this is a skill that depends on the system encouraging you to work. So it has to be possible. Then you can wonder if it is the pension system that will determine how people will live their lives, if you want to look into the pension system to see what's paying off. You want me to have a baby? Should I work full-time or part-time? Do you want me to take a long education? I think maybe that's not how it's going to happen. I think we'll make most of the choices regardless of retirement. But it is important that the pension system is such that it is possible to understand the consequences of the choices you make. I believe that at least at the end of the career it will be possible to get a reward for standing longer, meaning a lot. That's what we've seen in the wise companies that are now adding proper arrangements for seniors. They see that the AFP is very expensive, and then they find other solutions that make people choose to stand in the business longer. Those arrangements will mean a great deal for this to be successful, not only to meet the need for labour that we have in the future, but also for the individual. It's very important. For SV it has been extremely important that the agreement should not weaken the performance of those who had the least. We did that. I'm glad. Then I realize that some of them with long education are disappointed. You might understand that. But I want to add that most of them have good occupational pensions today, and most of them also have access to the AFP. In the future, I expect that several of them will have it too. But it's a little strange today to hear that the Progress Party makes itself a spokesman for them, because their system won't provide better earnings for the highly paid. To put it this way, the party of progress is also involved in saving. They also save a lot of money. One place they have to save when those who have the minimum pension get more. They're saving it at that end. Nothing bad about the Progress Party's fight for the minimum pensioners, but it is not possible to reconcile the proposal they have made today with claiming that they are also taking a fight for the highly-paid academics.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e510	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e513	Today we have approx. 641 000 part-time jobs in Norway. Most of those who work part-time today are women, approx. 400,000. We find many of them in care and care. It is also well known that many people in this category work part-time involuntarily. Karin Andersen said in his article that the new system rewards those who work a lot. That means that those who have a disability, or have forced part-time, end up with what is called a guarantee pension, and that in the future will be much lower than today's minimum pension. How can the EN and those who speak the case of people with disabilities address a pension model that discriminates against women and people with disabilities, and weakens their rights and future levels of pensions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e520	I do not think the Progress Party could have read the vote and the proposal. It is such that those who have an involuntary part-time job are registered with NAV and want more work, they should get their pension calculated as if they were in full-time employment. If you are completely unemployed, you should also get the pension calculated on the basis of the job you had before. In addition, of course, there are many steps that need to be taken to ensure that people do not go involuntarily part-time. It will also be the case in the new system that if you go on a voluntary part-time basis, you will earn everything you earn. You don't do that today. Part of the minimum pension trap that exists today is that there are many who have earned many pension points but still end up as minimum pensioners. So let's get rid of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e527	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e530	I am very pleased that we have succeeded in reaching a broad agreement on the future pension system. Today, the majority of this room ensures sustainability and predictability in public confidence. Although some people may have felt that they have gone a long way to reach agreement, I would point out that it is for the credit of all the settlement parties that we have now secured security for the pensions of future generations. It is always demanding to provide broad support to the population for welfare policy changes involving more than increased appropriations. The easiest thing for us would have been perhaps to postpone the whole matter, or not to take the burden of concluding a compromise. However, it would have been a betrayal of voters, who expect and deserve courageous politicians who also take responsibility for societal challenges that lie a few years ahead. Fortunately, no more is one political party in Norway that does not take this responsibility. The Progress Party has abandoned clear programme formulations on pensions and now wants to continue to a great extent today's popular reputation. This happens without the lot even caring about asking the ministry to assess the cost of the proposal. Such a procedure is both irresponsible and irresponsible and, unfortunately, must be explained with raw populism. Other parties have now generated these numbers. This shows that the total cost of the proposals of the Progress Party will be about 500 billion DKK higher over the period 2010-2059. That's big numbers. A pension reform is necessary for several reasons. In order to ensure continued high value creation in our country, it must be more profitable for individuals to work after the age of 62. We know, for example. that, in a few years' time, far more health and care workers will be needed in the care of the elderly than at present. The future pension system takes that into account. The reform is also justified by the fact that there is an increasing number of active people to bear the expenses of the population. While there were 3.9 persons in the labour force per year in 1967, This ratio is expected to decrease to 1.7 in 2050. The consideration of our children and grandchildren indicates that changes in the pension system are now being implemented. It's about solidarity with the next generations. In the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the pension agreement recognises the important value creation unpaid care work is for society. Nursing shall give entitlement to pension funds equivalent to the income of 4,5 G for up to six years, and the pension payment for those who are caring for the elderly, sick and disabled is strengthened accordingly. This reduces potential disadvantages experienced by some women in transition from a year-on-year rule to a year-on-year rule. Career interruptions such as: due to care for young children, the size of the pension will be slightly negative. This ensures greater equality between women and men's pension payments and will hopefully motivate more men to take on care. It is therefore important, not least from an equal opportunities perspective, to strengthen pension performance for care. In the Christian People's Party, we are also satisfied that the agreement involves a certain lifting of the profit ceiling. It's important for us to have a slightly greater correlation between income through life and paid retirement than what followed from the Government's original proposal. We are also pleased that we have agreed to improve pension performance for those who are earning protection. For us in the Christian People's Party it was not possible to support the proposal of the Government, as among others. means that all guardians transferred to the Home Office are denied the payment of a retirement pension for a service earned in the first place. In negotiations, all parties must give and take. We in the Christian People's Party would like to see that we had achieved more in terms of long-term education. We want to introduce service provision for studies, but it was not possible to include the government parties in this. Overall, however, we have got a good solution. In conclusion, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur, Sverre Myrli, for a clean procedure. I admit that there have been times when the opposition's negotiating delegation might think of greater and faster movements in the negotiations, but the tone has been consistently good, and we in the Christian People's Party look forward to further cooperation with the government parties, the Right and the Left on the follow-up to the pension settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e559	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e562	Clearly, the Christian People’s Party has had a major impact on one point in the agreement, namely, better rules for earning unremunerated care. Of course, the Progress Party is pleased that the agreement has reached a solution that is almost identical to the proposals of the Progress Party in this area. However, it is serious that the new scheme removes the year-on-year rule. Care and raising of children does not end when the child starts school. How can the Christian People's Party defend a pension scheme there, for example? parents with disabled children who feel that they need to work part-time to get their days together will be the retirement losses?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e569	The Christian People's Party is concerned with equality, and it's not that there are women with part-time who have been the winners in terms of the best-year rule. It is men of high education and high income who have worked for a very short time. An important premise for us to go into today's pension scheme has been to get an impact on care scores, and we hope that more men will participate in care work as well. The proposal today also includes the possibility of taking care of older people with disabilities and sick people, for whom the representative here was concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e576	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e579	Today's debate is much about needs and groups for which better solutions could be sought. There is a heavy process behind us: first the work of the Pension Commission, then the previous government's pension message and the Storting's treatment of it in 2005 and now the treatment of the grossing-up message from the red-green government. There may be a need to look up and look at the basis on which it has been decided in 2005. Then the settlement partners set up some basic pillars to ensure future popular security. The principle that work is to be paid and that there must be a link between work throughout life and retirement benefits is central. Furthermore, persons with low incomes through a long professional life shall not have a pension lower than current social security. Pension provision for unpaid care for children and for the care of the elderly, sick and disabled and for those under protection is also defined as prerequisites. The broad majority behind the position of the Labour and Social Committee is living up to these requirements. We also get back a tax-stimulated individual pension saving scheme, which is in addition to what has been introduced in the meantime: the compulsory occupational pension and its adjustments for self-employed workers. During its period of work, the Committee has also been given the opportunity to find out how other countries striving to provide their citizens with credible and viable pension schemes operate. Both in Denmark and in England, we have recorded the importance of reaching broad compromises to develop a pension system that can work over time. We've done the same thing, and we did it. It's not just here on the house we have reason to be satisfied with it. If people's fear is to be the main pillars of the welfare system that we require, people must be able to trust that the changes that are being made will work over time. It's been 40 years since the people's fear was established. There must be a similar perspective in the future on the main elements of the adjustments made by today’s decision. So in the Central Party we are happy to have been able to contribute to a pension reform, and we believe that we have maintained important values for ourselves, even though it will also be so that we could want some elements a little different. The pension agreement we're getting now gives us a better social profile than the Pension Commission's attitude. In particular, low-to-medium-income workers come out better. Thus, women will generally get out better than they do today. This has been important for the Center Party. It is as the representative Woie Duesund said in his reply to the reply from the Progress Party: it is not that women in low-paid jobs would earn the best-year rule. They serve the solution contained in this proposal. We have been criticized for setting the service ceiling too low. Not everyone has been willing to consider how they might think that the increase in the roof should be covered. Those who have promoted mitigation proposals have referred to measures directly affecting groups of lower and medium-income groups. The Council has been missing from the assumptions made in the 2005 pension agreement, where consideration for these groups is very concrete. We have not been able to support this on the part of the Centre Party, and we are pleased that one has now been able to reach an agreement that takes account of the 2005 pension agreement. The centre party has been concerned that the possibility of supplementary occupational pension must also be ensured by self-employed persons. Many in this group have large fluctuations in income through their professional career and can therefore remain at low service levels in the social security system. The fact that the Storting has previously extended the access of this group to pension saving in OTP-like schemes and has now in addition brought back tax-stimulated individual pension savings has led to self-employed better care than in the past. The centre party has been committed to putting in place good and fair solutions for pension provision for people who undertake unpaid care for children and caregivers. Child care services have now become good. Childcare and increased participation by both parents will probably reduce the number of persons using the full spectrum of that scheme. In the wholesale notification and in the settlement party agreement, it is underlined that the Government will come back to a more detailed assessment of giving retroactive effect to care provision. In this assessment, it is important that the proposals that are being promoted take on board not only the costs that will follow but also the value society should take on the efforts of a large group that is likely to have modest pension entitlements at the bottom. But we're going to get back to that. Pension provision in the care of the elderly, sick and disabled is also a very important part of the provision of care. This system is being continued in the new social security system. A working effort of 22 hours per person shall be documented. a week for at least six months. It'll be a part that doesn't come within this. We know that unpaid care for highly nurturing family members is far more extensive than what may be caught up in today's schemes. The effort made saves society for large costs, but causes problems to those who provide it, both in the loss of income and perhaps in the loss of employment opportunities in the long term. Therefore, it may be necessary to consider whether these limits are good enough as they are enshrined in today’s system. A change in popular security brings each individual gain by standing longer in work, but also guarantees the right to withdraw early retirement from 62 years of age. It's positive. However, the assumption that a pension cannot be taken out below the minimum pension limits the 62-year-olds. When we get the framework for future treatment AFP schemes, the limitations of retirement benefits for this group should also be looked at – whether they are fair and whether we are achieving the goal we are committed to. The attitude of the Labour and Social Committee shows that there will be a broad majority behind the decisions taken today. The Progress Party has chosen to stand alone, but it is interesting to note that they will vote in favour of proposals that are much closer to the model of revised popular security than their own programme. It's actually part of today's realities that we get underlined through this debate. The main differences between the majority and the Progress Party are the desire of the Progress Party to maintain the best-year rule and, by weakening the link between life-cycle income and earned pension rights, and that the Progress Party wishes to remove today's schemes that ensure a slightly higher income for single minimum-pensioners than married minimum-pensioners. I was in the middle of a line change. I see that the Progress Party here has not captured the situation that is actually in society. It is that there are lonely minimum pensioners who are the really poor. They're the ones who're struggling with low incomes. These are mostly lonely women. Now the Progress Party will give more to married minimum pensioners than they will to lonely minimum pensioners. It is right – for all things – that they both lift, but it thus has a twisting effect for those who are heaviest and who are the absolute losers in today's system. I think it is a pity, and there is reason to look at the reasons for that kind of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e605	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e608	At the Central Party national meeting, it was agreed that an investigation would be sought in relation to the living conditions of the minimum pensioners. I expect that the background to such an investigation is that there is a suspicion that very many minimum pensioners have a poor economy and a difficult everyday life, as the Progress Party has pointed out on several occasions. We can see in the media that more and more minimum pensioners can't afford a hot meal every day, can't afford to pick up prescribed medications at the pharmacy. At the same time, the majority now wants to reduce the minimum pension by 2050 to NOK 91000. It's $35,000 less for a lone minimum pensioner than the Advance Party adds. How can the Center Party defend such a system? Will the Central Party propose a higher minimum pension in the future, when will they propose it, and what level does the Central Party consider that the guarantee pension should be in place, in order to ensure a good and dignified economy for the minimum pensioners?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e613	Yes, it's true as it's said, the Centre Party is going to have a sharp look at how the income development of the minimum pensioners is going to be in the future. We have also, as I have stressed before today, recorded that there are lone minimum pensioners who are particularly important to have the search light on. In the retirement position, we agree that the guarantee pension should be regulated differently from the rest of the pension, so that we do not get any loss there. The representative points to the divisional number and the possible consequences. I think the Progress Party makes a mistake when they so unilaterally focus on one element in regulating the income situation of the minimum pensioners and not looking at the whole, not also looking at the measures we otherwise have over the state budget, which relates to housing support schemes, which relate to other conditions that will have a significant impact on the income situation they actually have. But it should be certain, the Progress Party should like to join us in having a critical look at the income situation of minimum pensioners in sum. As one might be aware, it was ten years ago that the Central Party went into the rush to correct this, by getting a raise in the special supplement of NOK 1000 per person. the month of the minimum pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e618	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e621	Today is a historic day. We treat what many have referred to as the main issue of this ageing period, the future pension model, which will apply from 2010 and, hopefully, for a long time to come. We conclude a long and important journey in many ways, which started with Jens Stoltenberg's first government setting up a pension commission, whose recommendations in NOU 2004:1 were followed up by the previous government through St.meld. No 12 for 2004-2005, Pension reform – security of pensions, which ended in a conciliation between the Left, Right, Christian People's Party, the Labour Party and the Centre Party in spring 2005, which we are discussing today. I'm proud of the thorough process we've been through. It is a victory for Norwegian democracy, everyone has been heard. Everyone may not be as satisfied, but there are no tires burning in the streets in protest at the decisions we are making today. It also says something about what a happy situation we're actually in. The profit model for popular security that we are adopting today is a good one. Most of the main elements are consistent with the primary positions of the Left, but there is no secret that we would like to see a model with a better performance profile for those with high education, either through a higher benefit cap or through pension credits for completed studies — or a combination of these elements. It is important to ensure the legitimacy of, and the emergence of, popular security in the future as well. Especially for women with a high level of education, it is a disadvantage. Long study time, some years at home with children, perhaps relatively high income, which is less likely to result in retirement, would have been a problem. The left is a little surprised that the government parties will no longer reach out to meet legitimate demands from that group, but we are, of course, in favour of the agreement we have concluded. In essential respects, it has, after all, become better than the starting point, through negotiations, first between us in the committee and later on at the second level. For the Left, it is also important to ensure a third pillar of the pension system, individual pension savings with tax benefits. The possibilities for this are, as is well known, closed by the government parties in the context of the budget for the current year, following a process that with respect to reporting was not particularly good. It is therefore good and right that, as a result of the negotiations, a new model for individual savings should be introduced from 2008. It is also important to stress that the Left, together with the Right and the Christian People's Party, is free to propose a higher savings amount and to propose a continuation of the scheme of individual and collective annuity, cf. the protocol entry into the agreement concluded on 21 March 2007 between the conciliators on the model for the generation of retirement pensions in social security. Therefore, on behalf of the Left, I already warn that we are going to propose a higher amount for pension savings – and it is still worth saving. It is true that private pension saving alone has no direct connection with the issue we are dealing with today, but it is crucial for the Left to get this in place in order to enter into an overall agreement on pensions as it appears today. The most important thing for the Left has been to get a popular voice that is robust over time, and the certainty that we have been responsible for such a big and important matter has been decisive for the Left's participation in the pension agreement. The alternative, with a long-term uncertainty, would have been much worse. The left believes that we need a system for the future that is predictable and that gives people the opportunity to know what they get in retirement. No one has been earned that the framework of the pension scheme is being played by changing governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e634	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e638	On several occasions, the Left has called for the introduction of what is known as "citizen pay". Already in the social security settlement last year, the Left proposed that the minimum pensioners should have a salary of 2 G. The same goes for the Progress Party. Unfortunately, the Left did not support such a proposal during the examination of the State budget. My question is: now that the Left has joined a new pension model, which makes it almost impossible to implement a civil salary or to raise the minimum pension up to the level required by the Left, does that mean that the Left has now thrown its party program overboard, or does it mean that the Left will continue to promote that proposal to increase the minimum pension of 2 G? When, then, will they come forward with that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e643	Like some other parties, the Left does not throw its application overboard. Connecting the minimum pension with a civil salary is well to go a little bit far, because the proposal for a civil salary that was promoted at an earlier date was up to 2 G. It's probably revised at a later date to 2.5 G. But there has never been a connection between minimum pension and salary. What has been said about the minimum pension, and we have a strong view of that, in line with the representative Sundsbø earlier stated when it came to the lone minimum pensioners, is that there should be a higher income ceiling for the minimum pensioners than it is at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e648	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e651	I would like to start by saying that, like many others, I am very pleased that today we are dealing with the setting of a message where the treatment takes place on the basis that we have a broad settlement. It's historic. It's important, and it's been important for the government to get it done. I am very pleased that this has been successful in negotiations in the Stortinget. Thus, the treatment is now taking place in a sort of case where this pension reform has taken place as a stag between different governments. It was the Stoltenberg I government that set up the Pension Commission. The first principle message was the Bondevik II government that presented to the Stortinget. It formed the basis for the 2005 pension agreement, which in turn formed the basis for the Stoltenberg II Government to present its big-time report, and we have again got a new deal in the Stortinget. This is a sign that we're going to be able to build the new popular peace in a broad settlement. It delights me, because it will create security and secure the framework around the pension system for the future. We need that. There is a lot I would have liked to say, but I would like to comment on some of the proposals of the party that has chosen not to participate in the conciliation, and which is claiming in the debate today that their proposal represents a much better pension system than that which it represents. I deeply disagree with that, and that is why I feel that this is the basis for going into the comments that the Progress Party is making today. The first is that the best-year rule is supposed to be much more fair and good than the annual rule. Let me use, for example, person A and person B. If we say that person A has had $300,000 of income for 40 years, equal income for 40 years, he has a life income that forms the basis of retirement, of $12 million. kr. If we compare it to person B, who has earned $50,000 a year for 20 years and then $4500,000 a year for 20 years, he has a life income of $10 million. So it's going to be $2 million. kr less in income during life than person A. Nevertheless, person B with such a system will receive a higher pension than person A. I think it is very unfair that a person who has worked smoothly and had a hard time for 40 years should have a lower pension because he has earned this income in a way different from that of person B. It is quite obvious that the best-year rule is primarily tailored to those in professional life who have a clear career development, who go from earning little in periods to earning very much in other periods. It is unfair that those who have income evenly throughout all years will receive a lower pension than those who have high incomes for some years. It's unfair that there's no connection between life income and retirement. Then it is said that the labour market is such that not everyone can work full every year. I agree. That is also why the agreement is based on the fact that you can become unemployed and then, of course, cannot work full time. Then you're free, but you're going to get unemployment benefits. Then there are those who want to work full-time, but who do not get full-time and thus have to work part-time. They're going to get pension service as if they're working full-time. Then there are those who are in the military and who are therefore not working. Therefore, they are required to receive post-employment benefits. Then there are those who have care tasks for children, the elderly, the disabled. They're going to earn a living for it. What, for such reasons, results in non-participation in the labour market, provides services. But those who say they don't choose to work now, they don't want to work, get less pension than those who work. I find that the Progress Party wants a system that is such that those who choose not to work will be able to get more in retirement than those who work. I'll never be a part of saying that is a good pension system, a fair pension system. Then the Progress Party says, "We're going to keep 40 years' earnings." This means that an industrial worker at Aker Kværner Verdal, such as as an apprentice, starting as an 18-year-old – there is nothing special about it – and working for 40 years, has full earnings when he is 58 years old. If he works for the next four years until he's 62, he gets zero earnings. That someone can describe it as a fair and good pension system, I'm not able to join. Equal income, which is characteristic of an industrial worker, and more than 40 years, which is quite common, gives zero earnings after 40 years. So the Progress Party here today says that disabled people and young people who have zero labour income will in the future become minimum pensioners. It's wrong, and it's quite conspicuous when the largest opposition party has to use as argumentation technique factual error, and has not even understood what it is that you disagree with. It is not the case today that young disability pensioners become the minimum pensioners, nor is it going to be the case in the future. We are now investigating how the future disability pension will lead to a transition from disability pension to old age pension, but there are no elements in the investigation that suggest that young people will become minimum pensioners in the future. So here you construct a policy that doesn't exist, and use it as a basis for expressing disagreement. The first point when discussing the future pension system is at least to understand what you agree with and what you disagree with. Then, fortunately, the Progress Party agrees with the adjustment of life expectancy. It is a fundamental feature of the future pension system that we have a system that takes into account the potential for life expectancy to rise. The alternative is that we need to have this kind of adjustment of pension reform looked at and often if the system does not take into account that life expectancy may rise. The partners make a living adjustment which means that when life expectancy increases by one year, we have to work eight months longer to get the same pension. The Progress Party's system means that when life expectancy increases by one year, we have to work one year longer to get the same pension. I think it's a very bad offer to people in Norway that when we're so lucky that our life expectancy rises by one year, we have to use that whole year to work to maintain the pension. I am absolutely sure that people will long prefer an agreement between the state and the individual who insists that when life expectancy increases by one year, we have to work eight months longer to get the same pension. The progress party system is also in this way a very, very bad system. Based on these reasoning, as I said, I am very happy that there is only one party that is not in the agreement. The agreement represents a good foundation for what becomes a good pension system for the future. So it's important for me to stress that a lot of work remains. We are now putting the foundation into place, but after that we are now going to design the bill, with which we will then return as soon as possible to the Stortinget – Odelstinget – with it. Then we're going to start negotiations with the social partners on the future AFP. We also need to look at how, if necessary, the flexible retirement pension of 62 years will apply to the private occupational pension scheme. And we need to look at, in negotiations with the social partners, how to adapt public service pensions, for example. Life expectancy adjustment, which is part of the compromise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e679	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e682	Let me first say that I find it interesting to register the rhetorical council of states, and that it is almost only the council that has understood. I have also recorded the debate that has taken place among trustees and employees at Aker Verdal, to which he refers, and it does not seem that they directly agree with the Council of State on the performance of the new pension scheme. The first thing I could imagine asking questions about is: does the Council of State dispute that the best-year rule is more life-stage-friendly than the annual rule? The second is that the current government has said that all poverty should be eliminated. With the new pension scheme, it can be felt that a guarantee pensioner, or one who has worked little for a few years, can receive a smaller age pension — not the minimum pension, because the guarantee pension is kept so low — and may risk becoming an old-age pensioner who has paid less than today’s minimum pensioner. How does it harmonize with combating poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e689	Once again, the Progress Party defends the current pension system, with a few adjustments. What is one of the main problems of the current pension scheme? Well, it's that a number of people, not least women, whom Robert Eriksson has often been involved in the debate, can work for years, pay back to the population, and when they start to have a pension, it turns out that they're still going to be the minimum pensioners. They get the same amount of pension as those who have worked zero days. In the future, those who become minimum pensioners are those who have not worked one day, have never born a child, have never had caring tasks, have never been in the military. They have to become minimum pensioners in many ways. But the problem today, with the system that Eriksson defends, is that people work for years in major positions and yet become minimum pensioners. That it should be a good system for people most, and especially women, is completely incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e696	I can't free myself to register that Martin Kolberg has obviously won out with his strategy of spending all the time at the Progress Party. I think we're all talking a little bit more about what we've got, because the only thing that's certain about the arrangement of the Progress Party is that it's never going to be realized, precisely because we've now made such a broad deal that stands above elections. I think we have good reason to be proud of the agreement that lies at the bottom. It will provide pension security for both current and future pensioners. However, my question is related to the elements that are not now in place, namely disability pension, AFP and also adaptation to the state's occupational pension. I ask the Council of State to confirm that, as far as the elements are concerned, it must be anchored in the same broad majority that has now entered into a pension settlement, precisely because these are elements that are part of our pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e703	I understand the point of Sanner's introduction to the question. But I believe that something that is important in this pension debate, not only is a anchoring in this room, but also a anchoring out in the population, an understanding that what we are doing, is both fair and good and necessary. That is why I think it is also necessary to address the fact that Norway's largest opposition party, for example. use completely incorrect factual evidence as the starting point for accepting the conciliators. I think we should make them aware of that and have a debate on it, because we also need a anchoring in the population. To the end, which is really the question, I want to say that much of what we are about to do is going to happen in negotiations with the social partners, and it is absolutely essential that those negotiations are done properly and properly. But parts of this obviously have to be dealt with here. What is important for the basis of the negotiations is, of course, to be anchored in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e710	The current AFP scheme is reserved for trade union organisations. Despite the fact that this scheme excludes workers who choose to be unorganised for various reasons, the country covers a significant part of the costs of the scheme. Many would agree that it is difficult to defend large government transfers to a pension scheme that is not accessible to all. We in the Christian People's Party have therefore arranged that even non-professionals can join the AFP system if there is an agreement on it at the individual company. How does the Council of State come forward with such a proposal, and to what extent will he involve the Storting in the forthcoming work on changes in contractual pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e715	First: I believe that there is a small error in what Woie Duesund says, for the basis for being covered by the AFP scheme is not that the individual must be professionally organized, but that the company is organised. So one can be unorganised on an organised enterprise and still be subject to the AFP scheme. In the big news, the government assumes that we will also have a contractual pension in the future, i.e. a supplement to the flexible old-age pension in social security that is to be agreed upon, part of a dialogue with social partners, where it is those who work in the organised working life that are covered by the scheme. With regard to the involvement of the Storting, this would have to be linked to the State’s contribution to the scheme. But in addition, it is important to stress that there is a contractual arrangement, so that it is the negotiation between the social partners that is crucial for the design of the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e725	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e728	Today we are dealing with a matter that is important to all of us. At the same time, we're going to decide what kind of society we want. In fact, a country's pension system tells a lot about how we treat the elderly and the weakest in society, and how much we value differences among people. The pension model has several aspects that I don't like, but I want to stick to the unvaluedness of the pension model and care. In recent years it has been discussed in several environments that it seems to go towards a colder and tougher society. On a visit to a health centre in my municipality, I was told about children down in the first class who were torn apart with mental problems, anxiety or depression. Those who had worked a long time at the health centre thought this was a brand new trend. Child protection reports an ever-increasing rise in new cases, and home services report that only the elderly are no longer in need of home care to a greater or lesser extent. And the nuclear family is under pressure. The government was of the opinion that reworking care points was no longer so important, now that full child care coverage was the goal. But caring for and raising children does not end when they are four years old. Fortunately, the agreement has taken this into account and expanded the offer somewhat. Not everyone agrees with the Government's view that the public can assume any responsibility in a better way than the family. Caring is one of the most important tasks of society, and care is carried out to the greatest extent by women. Not everyone has the power to participate fully in the labour market at the same time as they have care obligations. For many, having time with their children even after schooling will be important. Reduced working time may be necessary because of the working situation of one or both parents. In many professions, there is extensive travel or unfavorable shift work. For others, the challenge lies in a child with special needs, illness or disability. In such a situation, many parents choose to work reduced time for a few years. When the pension is calculated on the basis of the best 20 years, this has not resulted in a reduction in the pension rate for the individual. With the new model, where every year counts the same amount, you will be reduced every month as an old-age pensioner as a penalty for extra care. I also know several good adults who see that they have the economy to work reduced time a few years to help their old and sick parents. With the new pension, this will result in a concrete reduction in the payment on the day they leave the pension themselves. Today’s best-year rule has a much stronger social profile and is much more life-friendly than the annual rule. You can quickly experience 30 years of life as an old-age pensioner. Once you're 30 years old by 12 months, multiplied by reduced pensions because you take responsibility for your parents, a lot of people will feel that the price tag is getting too high. We may run the risk that even more people may choose public solutions for their disabled, mentally ill or addicted children, and we may risk considerably reducing the efforts of adult children towards their sick and old parents. Today, individuals carry out a significant amount of care for the caregiver and for large economic savings for society. If all this work is shifted to the public, each individual will experience a lower level of care, costs will increase considerably, and society will face significant challenges in terms of capacity. With government parties who have a fundamental reluctance to private initiative and a fundamental belief in the public as the only charity, this attitude does not surprise me. But I'm surprised that the Christian People's Party, which likes to be seen as the care party, is satisfied with a pension settlement that is so little caring. As I said in the beginning: the pension system will often reflect the society we want, and the new pension system unfortunately signals that the majority wants a colder society where care is to be punished financially and where the weakest become the losers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e759	Now, when the Stortinge treats the new popular fear, it's one of the biggest and most important issues we're going to deal with in this magnificence period. The decisions taken today by the Storting will be standing as important welfare posts for many decades. They will affect all future pensioners and their pensions. They will ensure a good, fair and sustainable popular reputation. I am particularly pleased that we have reached a broad agreement on popular security. This pension agreement will take the form of a changing political majority in the Grand Duchy, with six responsible parties standing behind. I will give tribute to the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which in a constructive way helped to get this settlement in place. The representative Sanner said earlier in a line change here in the hall that we have reason to be proud of what we've got. I agree with that, too. The changes that are now being made in our system of popular protection are actually rather small compared to the dramatic changes that many other countries in Europe have to implement in their pension schemes. In Norway we are exceptionally fortunate. We have State pension funds, which can help pay for future pensions. For the Workers' Party, it is very important that the public interest of the future should have a good distribution profile and be socially fair. That's it. Low and medium incomes will ensure a good retirement in old age. For us, it is also very important that we pay off working with the new pension scheme. And it will. All labour income will be future pensioners, including part-time and summer jobs. We have been concerned about the need to correct weaknesses and injustices in today's systems. And so will it. What has been called the minimum pension trap will now be abolished. This is good for many women who work part-time. It is also important to establish an early retirement scheme in the new social security system. Everyone will have the opportunity to leave at 62 years of age. You will receive a lower age pension from the population at 62 years of age than at 67 years of age – naturally, that's the way it must be. However, the advantage is that, in the future, you can combine pensions and income from work, so that, overall, you will be able to get very well out of the economy, while at the same time being allowed to contribute your work – albeit to a limited extent. It is also good for future pensioners that they know what kind of earning system and payment schemes will be in force in the future. Two important steps are to ensure that public health is also economically sustainable in the coming years. That's what we've called the year-on-year adjustment and the method of indexing, i.e. the annual adjustment of pensions. As in Norway, there are more pensioners per year. active, it is also necessary, for that reason, to make some changes in the level of popular protection. In the past, there were about four active persons per year. age pensioner. If not for too long, this relationship approaches one to two. It goes without saying that the pension system must then stimulate people to stand longer in the job. It is desirable that we increase our working years in number. We need people's work in our society. Because of the educational explosion we've had in the last decades, the youth comes out into the labour market later than was the case when the popular fear was adopted in 1966. For this reason too, we should encourage more people to take a longer time at work. It is only the Progress Party that, to say the least, its habit of believing stands outside this broad political compromise here in the Chamber today. It has already been affected, but it is a little remarkable how the Progress Party in such a heavy, serious and serious issue as the pension has adjusted its position along the way for several times in recent years. I have also wondered about what is being said in this Chamber today by the Progress Party in relation to the minimum pension traps, and whether those working part-time will get better or worse with the new system. I believe the Progress Party must look into what The Storting is actually going to adopt today. There are many aspects to the future. We're going to have a disability pension, a survivor's pension and an AFP. For the Workers' Party, it is important to have a continuation of the AFP system, which is to be adapted to the new public interest. I am glad that we also have a broad anchoring of it through the comparisons in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e785	Over quite a number of years, efforts have been made to make the Norwegian pension system sustainable. I think it's now 12 years since I delivered an investigation in my own party about the need for this, which includes. Part of the questions raised here was one of the issues. It's a slow and difficult process to do something about something that might have major consequences in the first place as we approach 2040 and 2050. A distinction I can see going through this hall is the distinction between the parties that are willing to say that we have to do something now to make sure that it gets better in the future, and those who wonder and believe that the problems we see today will not arise in the future as well. It is about being responsible for the evolution of future generations and also taking responsibility for the fact that the generation that is today, and the generations that are coming, does not take too much of the resources that are in our society. For the right, it has been the basis for us to think that we should have a pension reform. As long as there is no sustainable between generations, we must make it more sustainable between generations in the future. Within this framework, it is, of course, possible to create many different types of pension schemes that make it more sustainable. What we are doing today is adopting a reform that is actually based on the majority of today's system, but changing some of the different parts of the system so that it becomes a little less expenditure for future generations and economically active to pay for future generations of pensioners. But it's also important to say that the changes we're making today, of course, help those who choose different ways from being full-time work a whole life, from 20 years to 70 years, are going to get into a somewhat more difficult situation than today's pensioners. That's why we've been concerned that they're like, for example, takes long-term education or is responsible for care, and is given the opportunity to receive a good pension later. As far as care responsibilities are concerned, we have improved significantly in port. I would like to stress that it is not just for them with children, but we continue – contrary to what I understood a previous speaker said – the arrangements relating to those responsible for the elderly and the disabled. But for those with a long education, we're not satisfied with what we've achieved in this round. It's a problem, because in the future we'll have a society that requires more and longer education, and it's a wrong signal to give, in our opinion. But that's how we all give and take when we make compromises. Connecting six parties together in a compromise, which is to last over a lot of big shots, means that no one gets a full pot at what they want initially. But then it is important to say that there must be opportunities and air gaps in order to secure a good pension through own saving on the side of the public pension system that is. Therefore, it has been important for the three parties from the non-socialist side, who have cooperated with the government in the past, to state clearly that having tax incentives to save for their own pension is a necessary air gap for groups that, for various reasons, do not get well enough into this pension scheme. It is not to be paid through the public transmission system, but we are to have systems that stimulate the greatest possible success in old age. That means that you can compensate for choices by making more pensions on the side. If you choose to stay for years abroad, it means that you need to make a larger investment to save your own age. One of the important requirements we've had is that the three pillars of future pensions are adequate. Here we've come a little bit on the way by maintaining the system, but the right is going to fight for good savings arrangements for those who unlock savings for old age in the future. The main features of these savings and changes only give the desired effect we want, if at the same time we make sure that it also penetrates the main features when the parties are going to start negotiating for the AFP. I've become a little uncertain about what the Council of State really thinks about this. We are of the clear opinion that the main lines of this system should not be countered by a new AFP system. That's part of the agreement. It has been said in every conversation we have had, that it is at the bottom, and there has not been any disagreement about it. I assume that is still there by the Government, and that there will be no cooperation on an AFP scheme such as this. to prevent people from remaining longer in work, because that is one of the main reforms of this pension system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e798	A lot has already been said, but there is still a question that I would like to have a little more clarity on, and that concerns the position of the Progress Party in this case, which I think is quite strange. Securing future pensions is a challenge no batches can run from. At the time of the introduction of the old age pension in the population's security, there was a huge increase in welfare policy. Age pension is one of the most important welfare schemes we have. It ensures all an income in old age, including those who have not had their own income in the past. It redistributes income from those who have the most to those who have the least. This element is reinforced in the present equation. When the old age pension was introduced in its current form, it was built on the basis of the one-income family. It was a major step forward for many women, who received their own income at retirement age. The scheme was meant to be robust. But even if it was to be gradually built up, and everyone knew that the expenditure was going to increase as time went on, there was hardly anyone in 1967 who could predict the significant changes in the basic assumptions that were to happen even before the system was completed, and that has led to us no longer having a sustainable system. One thing was that the special supplement was introduced. It was a deliberate choice. The same thing was that the funding of the social security was left early. But more importantly, other key assumptions have changed dramatically. The fight for gender equality gave us self-earning working women. That change happened quickly. Gradually, we are also getting older, as a result of a successful welfare policy in many areas of society. Both parts are positive, but it has created some challenges that we have to deal with. The system is not economically sustainable if we see some decades ahead. It's itself a threat to future rights, which we have to do something about while we can still. Basically, it's not popular, but it would be a great failure sin just to let it scour and go to others can take over the problems. All Western countries face the same challenge. The Committee was on its way to study in January. In Denmark and the United Kingdom, we saw tendencies towards political reluctance. Changes have also been promoted, but in such a way that the heaviest consequences must be addressed by future politicians and future generations. Here we are braver. In a broad agreement, the parties here and now go together to do what is necessary – almost all, at least, all except the Advance Party, who did not even sign up for negotiations. There was no willingness whatsoever to contribute anything. It must be allowed to ask why. Of course, it could be because of the fact that the Progress Party has opinions about the pension that stands so far from all of us that a settlement that includes the Advance Party is completely unmistakable. And if we take a look at the show of the Progress Party, or just as much of the comments of the Advance Party in connection with the conciliation in the previous period, there's a lot of evidence to suggest that. For both the Pension Commission, in the treatment of St.meld. No 12 for 2004-2005 for the previous period and in the current period programme, the Progress Party has been clear and clear on the following: Flat population pension – minimum pension – for all. The rest can be obtained by agreement between the employer and the employee or by their own savings. Fortunately, such an unsocial system is none of the other parties that go in for it. But the wonder was great, at least with me, when I read the comments of the Advance Party in today's setting, because there are almost words for the transcription of the notes of the Advance Party from the previous period, but one significant section is omitted: Flat people's pension – in the middle of the program period. And the only thing left there is the verbal distance of the Advance Party from saving in future expenses. And when I say verbal, it's because when I read on, I see that the Progress Party is actually involved in the lifestyle adjustment, which is the biggest savings measure in the whole deal. And that the Progress Party is trying to camouflage this fact with some wording that they want to keep today's system with some minor adjustments, that's not right. The Progress Party is involved in the adjustment of life expectancy, and is also involved in some positive elements – they should also, of course, have – the flexible retirement age scheme from 62 years of age, without shortening the level of simultaneous labour income. But it doesn't stop. They are also part of the main savings measure; the living adjustment. So really, there should be a lot of room for the Progress Party to negotiate with the rest of the parties, because they have run from their own unsocial proposal on flat-rate pensions. And that's a good starting point. The AFP, in which the Progress Party will cut, is not the subject of this round. That's a good starting point. They therefore support the most important proposals for savings and should only, in fact, use marginally more than we do for pensions in the future. That's a good starting point. Yet, they could not agree on a deal! It simply tastes like populism, which, according to Aschehoug and Gyldendal’s Great Norwegian Encyclopedia, is a ‘designation of public freedom in politics’. The aim of policy-making is to produce results. So I kind of know the drawing. Here, the Progress Party thinks anything but future pensions. They're thinking about coming election campaigns. And I think that is critical of Norway's second largest political party. They should be with us and take responsibility with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e815	A secure and general pension system is a pillar of a good welfare society. When former Social Minister Egil Aarvik, of the Christian People's Party, presented in 1967 and adopted the bill for a popular fear for all, it was a milestone in the history of Norwegian society, and to the extent of Norwegian big business. Today, a new milestone is passed. The changes in the age structure of the population that have taken place, and will continue to occur, have led to the need for reform of the population's security. The basis for future pensions had to be secured. Today, a broad majority are united on the rules for earning pensions for the future. The same parties that were both visionary and responsible in the mid-1960s, when the building blocks of the current pension system were laid, are united in building the future pension. We agreed on the main principles of a new pension scheme when the Stortinget dealt with the previous government pension notification, in May 2005, and now we also have the government party SV in a broad agreement. The broad agreement creates political security for both today's and tomorrow's pensioners. The law is known. In any case, regardless of choice, both in 2009 and in subsequent elections, the performance rules for pensions will at least be maintained. This has a much greater security for the economy of retirement. It is an important handshake from Stortinget to the entire population. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are pleased that the agreement establishes that society pays unremunerated social responsibility through retirement. It was a necessary premise to be able to agree to a transition from the year-end rule to the year-end rule. That change in itself makes sense, on the basis of the principle that the pension system must stimulate work. However, people who have chosen to take unremunerated care responsibilities, and who have made an important effort also in a social perspective, would unluckyly come out of such a transformation without the changes in care provision. In the interest of fairness, an adjustment was made. The Christian People's Party is also pleased that through the conciliation, we have contributed to the political tranquillity of the principle that own savings for pensions can provide tax advantages. Social security, occupational pension schemes in employment and supplementary pension saving will be three pillars of the future pension system. The final agreement differs from what was the Christian People's Party and the primary wishes of the other two former government parties. However, we support the agreement, and we are pleased with it – not for the sake of current government parties, but for the sake of the pensioners. We have always said that we wanted a broad settlement, and we would help make it a reality. We will be recognisable and predictable, especially in a matter of such long-term leadership and consequences as this case has. That's why we're proud to have been contributors in this context. I record that there is another party in this room that does not seem to be predictability and recognizability to be particularly important, either when it comes to political choices that have consequences for decades to come. To completely change the position of the pension system in the last turn, to abandon a batch program and to abandon basic principles that the party has held in the Stortinget as late as less than two years ago – I will stick to parliamentary language in this room – is far beyond the limit of being serious. We are in no way in the measure of the future pension system. The economic basis for the reform is that the new rules actually stimulate people to go further. If we don't succeed, we're equidistant. In the opinion of my Christian People's Party and the Christian People's Party, it is absolutely necessary as a prerequisite that the rules for early retirement function in the same way as the rest of the pension scheme. We will maintain a state contribution to the AFP schemes, and we will have real opportunities to choose between or combine work and retirement in the end of the career. But it must always pay off to work. It is quite clear that the arrangement of today’s AFP scheme is not compatible with these principles and objectives. It shall continue to be the AFP after 2010 and the scheme shall remain favourable. But it must be different than today. It is essential that the Government and the social partners arrive at a common understanding of how this can be ensured in the context of the main tariff settlement of the following year. The government has provided concrete frameworks for further work on the adaptation of the AFP, in cooperation with social partners. The Christian People's Party fully supports these premises. I would like to remind all 87 representatives from the government parties that they too – through today’s decision – do so. We expect the Council of State to ensure that the settlement partners are involved in the further design of the AFP, so that we can ensure that our common principles are followed up in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e841	The President appreciates the fact that the representative is holding to a parliamentary language theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e844	So in this room, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e851	Several speakers before me have pointed out that the pension system that is being discussed today is a system for the future – a future that is more equal in terms of professional participation and careers than it is today, a future where you will live longer, and where there will be fewer active per cent. retired. Sverre Myrli quoted from the debate in this Chamber the time of the establishment of popular fear. Social security is ‘no mild gift’, it was said at the time, and is to be ‘paid’ with work. It's still like that. If we are to ensure the well-being of the future, we must ensure that more people work longer. So what do we want to do to get more people to work longer? We will provide a more inclusive working life. As the majority of the population did in 2005, when it introduced a labour-environment law in which the interests of workers were safeguarded, the government and the majority of the population, together with the rest of the population, have to take up the fight against social dumping and create a more inclusive working life, while pointing out that labour migration is both necessary and good for the country. We're going to launch a senior policy that takes care of older workers and their contributions to the world of work and the economy. We have addressed a big message about work and well-being, which is permeated by the fact that we want to open up the labour market and make it more inclusive, so that more people participate. We also need to make it profitable for people to take part in the work – make it profitable to work. The annual rule is a key element in this, that we remove the best-year rule, which the Council of State here has so rightly described as a system in which, above all, those who have hard careers are paid. We are now setting up a system that will provide security in terms of pensions and welfare. And we're going to create a system that's more fair. This is the broad consensus of all the parties involved in this agreement. But there's one party that knows better than everyone else. We warn all our children against foreign adults who lure with candy. In Bergen we call them "lockmen". They rarely have anything good in mind. The representatives of the Progress Party shall be the ‘louchmen’ of the policy. It's definitely in place to warn them, because they don't have anything good in mind. They stand here today and say that they will adjust today’s system – in such a way that the already weak relationship between work and retirement will be further weakened. At the same time, they present the majority’s proposals, i.e. the proposal of all parties other than their own, as the mere disaster for current and future pensioners – with some rather imaginative descriptions of a disability pension system that we have not yet completed. The Party of Progress is the opponent of the indexation. It will lead to pure poverty, we understand. This is despite the fact that we know that it will increase purchasing power – there is no disagreement about – perhaps not so much for those who enter wage negotiations and who contribute to increased production, but who are compensated for this by a stronger, increased purchasing power. The Progress Party does not say that they will regulate performance in line with wage developments. They say this should be a question of negotiation. So we don't know what the Progress Party really wants when it comes to this. What we know is that the Progress Party has promoted a different policy in its programmes in the past, as they say today that they will not promote again, because they will not have a majority in favour of it. Okay, what do they do on the day they get a majority? That's my question to the Advance Party – and my warning to the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e877	I would like to begin by quoting from a note that was sent out by the Group of the Advance Party as late as May 23, 2006, i.e. less than a year ago: ‘We are in favour of an equal pension for people with whom most people can live.’ So most people should be able to live up to the proposals of the Progress Party on Retirement. Who they are, those who are not the most people, they don't answer. I'm proud that I'm part of a broad majority of people in this room who today want to secure a pension that everyone can live with and off. The International Monetary Fund, the OECD and the EU have all pointed out that Norway is the country in Western Europe that is now the leader of a pension that can be economically managed in the future. But they indicate that there are some assumptions for this: The first is to deal with the rule of action not to use more than 4 pst. the return on the pension fund.The second is to have a governance of the national economy so that it does not become an uncontrolled price and interest rate increase.The third is to adopt a sustainable pension system in the future. The policy of the Progress Party is the answer to all that they say must not happen. That's why I'm proud that the majority today is conscious of their responsibility. Right-wing representative Jan Tore Sanner criticises the Council of State for spending too much time on the policy of the Progress Party. He even used up to 75 pst. of his speaking time to talk about it. Retorics is one thing, reality is something completely different. The only thing that remains in the policy of the Progress Party is the opinion of the then leader of the Progress Party, Carl I. Hagen, when he did not become the Grand President: ‘The fact that Bondevik and Right did not choose me as Grand President in 2001, when they had the chance, is quite incomprehensible. I assume that many of them now repent. It would make me responsible, and I would have been cut off from everything called populist play." The progress party is holding a tough course in this one case. Then we get others to continue our work for all the inhabitants of Norway. History will show that the grips we're doing today will increase the pension for everyone, including the minimum pensioners. In addition, we get a simpler and fairer pension system. I'm just going to do one example: if one prescribes the indexation of the pension and requires a salary increase of 1.5 pst. until 2050, a minimum pensioner will increase its purchasing power by almost 50 pst. The calculations for the Progress Party are not suspended. They want to saturation the thousands with two fish. I would therefore like to present today a gift to the representative of the Progress Party, Robert Eriksson – a calculator. I hope he appreciates the fact that these are large numbers. And then we'll see if they make the math go up in the future. Representative Rolf Terje Klungland referred representatives Robert Eriksson to a calculator.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e923	The President is overconfident that the representative of the Progress Party is very grateful for the gift. As far as the President understands, the representative has his birthday today. The President will take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate him on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e926	In this case, we are left with an example of how the Progress Party changes policy without further ado in heavy, important areas. In the game programme, which is valid for this period, it says that: ‘The party wishes a popular pension, which shall in the long term be equal to all’. In the setting they say they want to maintain the current system, but with some adjustments. Once again, the Progress Party uses oil as an argument to abandon a programmed policy that they have discovered people don't want: a policy that makes everyone the minimum pensioner and leaves responsibility for a good pension to the individual. It reminds me of what Albert Einstein said after giving his secretary a week's assignment to the students at the University of Basel, where he taught. The secretary looked at the problems and said, "But professor, these are the same problems they got last week." Take it easy, miss, said Einstein, I've changed the answers. This is what the Progress Party does when it discovers that the policies they have programmed are not entirely or entirely in line with reality, as local support for toll collection is an example. They're changing the answer. The representative Robert Eriksson did not answer Sverre Myrli's question. Does this mean that the Progress Party has changed its policy, or is the longer-term objective still a pension system of equal public interest for all? Asked in another way: Can most people trust the Party Party program, or can they not? The representative, Eriksson, said that there is no evidence that the pension needs to be changed, although pension expenditure is growing strongly and is to be borne by fewer people at work. Hasn't the Progress Party learned something from the climate debate, where they have said the same thing until the end? Now they have discovered that people are actually concerned about climate change, so now the Progress Party is beginning to recognise that the greenhouse effect is not about gardening. If by 2030 or 2040 it would turn out that the value creation is even higher than what underlies the majority's grip, I think our grandchildren will find many sensible purposes to spend the free money on, among other things. a large and demanding group of older people, namely us. If we don't do anything now, I think those of our grandchildren sitting in this room will have to take some pretty dramatic grip. That is when we can talk about a dark day for the country, because today we did not take the responsibility that is necessary. The representative Eriksson criticized the three opposition parties involved in the agreement, believing that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have been small and received very little again. But what is the Progress Party achieving? What ray of light are they able to bring into this for the dark day of the country and the pensioners? Nothing, nothing in the world. That's the result of standing outside. This practice of changing policies — or as it is also called: turning the cloak after the wind — can provide short-lived joy, but problems over time. Indeed, something that is fundamental in political work and that is necessary – one’s own credibility. Pension schemes are the heart of a welfare society where we want to take responsibility for ourselves and for each other. Therefore, it is so important that we prevent this heart muscle from being overworked in time. Although we are in the incredibly lucky situation that we have a strong growing pension fund as an auxiliary engine, we see that we have to do something with today's system if it's not going to be too hard to carry in a few decades, when there's a lot fewer in work and more in retirement. This is one important perspective we should not forget, but as many of those who criticize what we are now going to adopt ignore. The second important perspective on which we need to build the debate on our pension system is this: Pension is deferred pay. In this debate, too, the representatives of the Progress Party use the expression that we can afford to do this, whether in terms of increasing the minimum pension or the guarantee pension, or in terms of liberal arrangements for going off earlier than 67 years. But no one's giving us a pension; we're saving for our own pension. That's why it has to be the way we now build into the new system: if you want to leave early, it has to have consequences for your annual pension. This also clears up in a relationship that is becoming increasingly difficult to understand, that what you earn by working a little bit alongside early retirement is being curtailed. Many people feel that it doesn't pay to work a little bit, so we politicians with strength say that people have to work a little bit more. It feels like double communication, and it stands in the way of achieving another important objective of this reform, namely to give people greater freedom of choice and the opportunity to be a little in work, even if you have actually become a retired person.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e959	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e962	I think it's important that we keep talking about the pension as it actually is, that we earn the pension. We're not saving. It is those who work at any time, who are mainly responsible for the cost of pensions. That's the way it is today, and that's how it's going to be in the future. And that's one of the reasons why we're making the changes that we're now making. The progress party has been much discussed here today. One of the reasons I'm very critical of the Progress Party is that they express themselves as if they don't save in. They do. According to the calculations that have now come from the Government – and there are calculations made by the SSB – they are saving 20 billion dollars in terms of current population, i.e. 6 billion dollars less than the majority. It's a pretty powerful tightening that the Progress Party does, but like they don't. In addition to this, they here today claim that their proposals will contribute to more employment and value creation, contrary to the estimates made by the SSB, to the same calculations that the Ministry has sent to the Stortinget. It sounds as if they are selling a story that today’s care system for the elderly, sick and disabled should not be continued. They have to. It's in the message, and it's in the agreement. It's important to talk true about this. Then there have been some rounds here of long-term education. SV has in its programme a desire to provide service to students. But as I said in my main post, it was incredibly important for SV in the negotiations with the opposition that we did not weaken the pension for those who have the least. There were also clear indications in the 2005 proposal, which pointed to special income groups, as the Stortinget explicitly said, should have equal or better pensions than today. For SV, this group was as it was absolutely essential to ensure, if we were to continue into a debate. As something has been said about this today, we also need to say that then the choice was between spending much more money rather than weakening the pension for someone else. And for SV, it was not appropriate to weaken the pension for those who have the least pension. When it comes to those who have the least pension and will not be covered by a good compulsory occupational pension or by the AFP, I think we have to come back and discuss it over and over again, because there is no doubt that some of those who have the least pension have so little that they have difficulties in everyday life. There's a reality that we have to discuss over and over again, and it won't SV or I kind of sweep under the carpet and say not exist. And therefore – and precisely because of this – it was so important that the reconciliation did not weaken the pension for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e973	Let me first of all thank you for the great gift I received from the representative of Klungland. I promise it will be used well. I'm also convinced that if the calculator is right and it works, then probably the same numbers will come out there that have come up with the calculator we've been using. I want to comment on some things. It is not safe for me to comment on all the claims that have come against the Progress Party, but in the case of the representative, Sanner, who said that earning for students was important and a claim they made up to the bitter end, I think it is quite strange that the Right did not have it as one of the requirements that was sent over before the negotiations, at the end of January. It is not in the configuration. There are four points, and the attainment of students is not among the four points. The party of progress has done something for them with longer studies. We're proposing to keep the best year rule. The student organisations and the National Association of Students are in line with the Progress Party in this matter. They want exactly the same thing and say as early as October 4th, 2006 in the Student Paper Studvest that their primary desire is to keep the current Best Year Rule, which will definitely benefit students. It has been followed up by the Progress Party. So to Karin Andersen, who said in his post that there might be examples of those who have part-time positions that would have come out worse. Erik Orskaug, who is a senior economist in the Union, whom I expect has the possibility to calculate relatively fairly, regardless of which calculator he is using, has come to the conclusion that they are all, most of them about. 600,000 part-time jobs will come out worse. All with an income of between NOK 200000 and NOK 240 000 will lose on the proposal, according to Orskaug's calculations. In the case of State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, who says that the arrangement of the Progress Party makes it more minimal pensioners, that those who have earned little will become minimum pensioners with the Progress Party system, it is wrong. Obviously, the government has not read the setting here. The Progress Party is in favour of a phasing out of the retirement pension against the guarantee pension, in the same way that the majority does. The difference is that the arrangement of the Progress Party, with today's system, provides a better performance than the system proposed, while at the same time we do not want to regulate with the living adjustments for guarantee pensioners, and provides a guarantee pension that is far, far higher than the majority's scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e986	It is good that the Stortinget now implements a broad settlement in this important matter. I want to focus on two important, priority themes for the Center Party in the future within this conciliation. Pensions include: the safety of old age, it is a policy of distribution, and it is not least an incentive to work for those with good working capacity. First, I want to focus on the distribution policy and the lone minimum pensioners. While there were about 242,000 minimum pensioners in 1997, the figure in 2006 is 188 000, of which 90 are. Lone women. The purchasing power of these 90 psts. Lone women are about 35 pst. of the annual income of employees. There is a stable percentage after a significant jump in 1999. As we know, one doesn't live by percent, but one lives by dollars, and the difference in heads increases every year when the percentage is stable. At the Central Party’s national meeting, particular attention was paid to the lone minimum pensioners. It's a priority area for us. It is quite obvious that circumstances need to be improved through specific measures. This is an important distribution policy issue in the future when we know the everyday life of lone minimum pensioners. The second point is the AFP scheme. The government says in St.meld. No 5 to be discussed today: ‘The transition to an adapted AFP scheme is assessed in the light of the Government’s proposal for the phasing-in of the new age pension in the social security system. A proposal for a new AFP shall be made in good time before the main settlement in 2008.’» This is a follow-up to the letter from the Prime Minister to the payrollers of 31 March 2006. The AFP represents an annual mark-up to the old-age pension in the social security system. It is a financing where the state is also in and assisting. It is then central to the Central Party that we are working purposefully to ensure the purpose of the AFP and the state co-financing, which in its time was linked to workers who had had a particularly stressful professional participation and therefore needed special attention from the community when a person came at an age when it was difficult to stand in full employment. This focus needs to be continued in the proposal submitted by the Government in good time before the 2008 income statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1006	Also Christian People's Party would like to say a few words about private pension savings, but first a small remark to the representative of Klungland, who has announced that he is not re-electing the Stortinget. But after hearing his posts, I think he might have a good future as a pension counselor. If he has, it might be positive if he could also advise the population to perhaps look a little closer to private pension savings, which fortunately this agreement still provides the basis for providing advice. On the part of the Christian People's Party, it is important to say that we want a pension scheme based on three pillars that we believe is the best basis for a good upswing and trust in the population, namely a broad population-backs supplemented by occupational pension schemes and, finally, opportunities for incentives to save on their own pension alongside the mandatory schemes. Therefore, we are pleased that the government parties as part of this broad agreement have accepted the principle of private, or individual, pension saving within an annual contribution of NOK 15 000. The amount is low, but it is also possible to regulate. We have also noted the Committee's comments – we have noticed this very carefully – that there is a consensus that there should be a dialogue between the parties to the agreement on the design of the scheme and that the tax rules should be the same as those of the previous IPA scheme. Then I would also like to say that we primarily wanted from the Christian People's Party a continuation of the arrangements we had until 2006. I think it would have been good also in relation to the predictability the population should have in a matter as important as pensions. But this was not the case, and therefore we get to say quite satisfied with the starting point that now exists and that the three previous government parties also have the opportunity to change, cf. the agreement concluded between the parties. When this is said, I would nevertheless like to say that we are very pleased with the pension agreement that is now a reality. If the president allows hip hurrah, I'm a little uncertain, but the significance for the population of a predictable pension system cannot be exaggerated, and that's what we're now contributing to. Then the council itself has pointed out that it is in a way the foundation wall that is now laid. Many challenges remain. I might point out one in particular: how the design of the disability pension will work with the system we are now adopting, and not against. In that work, I wish both the Council of State and the Government good luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1021	As we approach Norway's national day, the President of course allows 'hipp hurrah' on a day like today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1024	In a line to André N. Skkelstad, Robert Eriksson used the term ‘to throw the party program overboard’. It might not have been quite a good idea to make such an expression today. I asked questions in my main post, I asked questions in reply to the spokesman of the Progressive Party, and a number of other speakers in today's debate have asked the simple question of the Progress Party: Is the programme formula applicable to 'a people's pension, which will in the long run be equal to everyone', still, or not? Robert Eriksson had 20 minutes of speaking time. He has been asked about it in the line change. He has later had a three-minute post. But he has still not answered the question that many have asked today. I want an answer to that, simply because I am interested in hearing what is the model of the Progress Party. I've been working on these questions for six years, also with the Progress Party based on their model, and I think it would be interesting to hear what is now the overall objectives of the Progress Party for a new pension scheme. It cannot be too much demanded by the second largest party in the country – which we want to take seriously. To save time – because I understand that it is used as an excuse – I ask a question that can be answered with yes or no: Still applies the following formulation of the Progress Party programme: ‘The party wishes a popular pension, which shall be the same for all in the long term.’ - Yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1038	I don't know if I should start by trying to answer that question. The pension reform invites you to look ahead and look forward to it. We are discussing a pension reform towards 2050. When we have a debate that really invites us to raise our eyes, I would have hoped that it would be a little different from the electoral promises of the Advance Party. With all due respect, I think it's getting a little small when there's a pension reform that's going to apply to a couple of generations in the future, that's on the agenda. Whenever I have to go into clinch with Mr. Eriksson, there are two reasons for that. The first is that he obviously needs to have a worryingly poor reading skills. It is not enough to read what is before the decimal point, when you read item 1 of our claim that was sent to the department on 31 January, you also have to read what is after the decimal point. It says that the Right Party and the Left view pension credits for students as a supplement or alternative, or in combination with raising the income ceiling. The second reason is that Eriksson and the Progress Party are so busy telling everyone to get more, that no one will get less – no one will lose on this, everyone will win with the Progress Party scheme. But then, obviously, we have not understood why we are implementing a pension reform. We are implementing a pension reform because it is necessary to mitigate the growth of pension expenditure. More incentives for work are needed. We will ensure security for pensions – not in 2006, but in 2030 and 2050. We're going to make sure we don't put a cost bomb under tomorrow's taxpayers. That is why we are implementing a pension reform. It is obvious that this is the very foundation of the generational or administrative thinking and the administrative responsibility that the Progress Party has not understood. When we see that pension expenditure as a share of value creation doubles over the next 40–50 years, when we know that in Norway we do have a state pension fund, but very weak private savings, when we know that we get an older population and fewer workers — yes, then it is necessary to implement this reform in order to ensure pension security. It is obvious that this very foundation underpins the pension reform, the Progress Party has not fully understood or, at least, has not fully embraced it. Then it's really a little pointless debate to discuss whether one group should get a little bit more or less with the wording of the Progress Party, because obviously you don't see the same need for long-term thinking and predictability as luckily the broad majority of the Storting does.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1051	The representative Robert Eriksson has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1055	I will try to answer what I did not get in the previous article. The Labour Party, the tradition faith, also the representative Lise Christoffersen, talks about the Advance Party and populism. If the Labour Party and the other parties in this Chamber had attended, they would have seen that the Progress Party has a long tradition of safeguarding the pensioners' vested rights through the treatment of social security schemes. It shouldn't be a big bomb that we're actually following this up in this treatment as well. Nor should it be a great surprise that we follow up on what we said in the treatment of the pension reform. Finally, Mr Sanner: this is precisely a big concession from the conciliators of the Progress Party who have always said that this reform is a solid savings reform, and it confirms the Sanner representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1064	It could have been very tempting to continue to ask questions to the representative Eriksson, but I will breathe deeply and not. I'm just going to make a few comments about the AFP scheme, and not least about the question asked by the representative Erna Solberg about the relationship with the AFP. As I said in my main post, we are now laying the foundation of the future pension system. But that doesn't mean we're done with it. Now we have the groundwork in place to gradually build on the future disability pension, to evaluate any adjustments to the private occupational pension schemes, to implement the adaptations of public service pension schemes and to start working to adapt the future AFP to the new baseline, to the new foundation of the overall pension system. As stated in the Communication, the Government will now invite social partners to a broad process of designing an adapted pension scheme, AFP. In this work, the Government will focus on the following: The AFP scheme will continue to contribute to a good early retirement scheme of 62 years. An adapted scheme shall support the objectives of a new pension scheme. The State shall continue its overall financial contribution to the AFP scheme. The AFP shall continue to ensure that those wishing to do so can leave at 62 years of age in a dignified manner. This is ensured by the continuation of the AFP in the form of an annual mark-up to the retirement pension in the population. The old-age pension from social security and the AFP shall be capable of being combined with labour income without any shortening of the pension. And finally, the transition to an adapted AFP scheme is assessed in the light of the Government’s proposal to phase out the new age pension in population protection, a proposal for a new AFP should be made in good time before the main settlement in 2008. I have no desire to say anything other than what is stated in the Storing Message and the intentions of the settlement that we have agreed on. There is no doubt that today’s AFP must be adapted to the reality that comes, as a result of today’s treatment, and as a result of the settlement made. The essential thing is that the motivation for work, which is now clearly established in what is adopted today, must be reflected in the future AFP.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1077	I disagree with Mr Sanner from the Right, who says that one should be at peace with the Progress Party in this debate. It is the Progress Party that stands for something quite different from what the majority here is doing, but I understand the intention. After all, it is the Progress Party that will ensure that the Right again, if it goes as Mr. Sanner hopes, will enter the government offices. Then I want to give an answer to what the representative Syversen from the Christian People's Party asked about, what was going on with the private pension scheme. Me and the Workers' Party are very busy getting into a pension scheme that is as similar as possible to everyone. Then we ask some fundamental questions about whether it should be so that the people who can afford to save on their own pension scheme get a partial privatization from the state, or whether it should be so that we have a pension scheme that is as fair as possible. It's a question that I think is a little bit principled, and that one should think about. Finally, I want to draw out a little bit of the story, as I see it, as far as the Progress Party is concerned. The lot was started as a lot that was against taxes and taxes. That was Anders Lange's party. So Carl I. took over Hagen, and it became a liberalist party, where one should have the least possible taxes and taxes and the least possible political governance. Over time, it has become a conservative party, one of which will have minimal changes, but will spend as much money as possible and have low taxes. Now I actually see it as the Progress Party is becoming a reactionary party, and I'm going to justify it with two things: When we made changes to the Working Environment Act when it was revised, the Progress Party voted against the changes. They wanted to keep the old work environment law, because then it was so great. So today, and in the attitude of today's debate, they're going to keep the pension scheme that's been, as far as possible, because now it's been so great. I am aware that the representative Eriksson of the Progress Party does not have more speaking time left, but there are enough new ones that are ready to take over. We're all curious whether they have the same answers in the same case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1090	A long debate is soon over, and we can conclude that we have not received an answer to the question that so many have asked the representative of the Progress Party: Is the wording of the party programme on equal pensions applicable to all, or not? In today's debate, Robert Eriksson has, as far as I can see, had 27 minutes of speaking time from this speaker's chair, including the line change. So the simple question that so many people have asked us has not been answered. The rest of us are proud of our party programmes. The rest of us love to talk about what's in the party program, and use every opportunity to talk about what's there. Why it is so difficult for the Progress Party to answer this question is incomprehensible to me. In fact, I think it is quite serious that when so many representatives from so many parties have asked the simple question of what is the policy of the Progress Party in this area, there is silence. I understand that we do not go further, but I would recommend and encourage the country's voters to ask the question to the Progress Party, this question that we co-represent obviously do not get answers to. The country's voters should ask the question: Can we trust what is in the Progress Party programme?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1099	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2696]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1115	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 2697]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1131	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Centre Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1140	The government is taking a number of steps to improve patient treatment, both by strengthening the hospital economy and by ensuring better organisation. The main steps are that the Government has decided to merge Health South and Health East to Health South-East and that an additional allocation of 800 million is proposed. to hospitals. For me as the case rapporteur, it has been important to ensure rapid progress in this matter in order to help health businesses make the most of the additional appropriations available in 2007. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for their constructive contribution to as early a discussion as practicable. I am also pleased that both the Government's decision to set up Health South-East and the proposal for additional hospital funding brings together a broad political majority in the Committee. At the same time, the setting contains a number of specific comments from the respective groupings. I would therefore primarily like to explain the views of the government parties on this matter. Ever since the start of the hospital reform, we have been aware that there have been challenges in the cooperation between hospitals in the Oslo area. The border between the two major regions has crossed the capital. The nearby hospitals thus belong to two different health regions. We then have great opportunities to better coordinate across the capital area. Better interaction is needed to ensure better treatment, better resource use and better professional quality, for example: between Ullevål and the Rikshospitalet-Radium Hospital. Because these hospitals are managed by each of their health regions, it has proved difficult to implement the necessary professional cooperation and joint enhancement of skills and capabilities, such as: in the case of cancer treatment. In order to ensure the best possible patient treatment in the future, there is a need for better coordination of professional and research environments, and we need to make better use of, among other things. personnel, areas and ICT. We know that today, patient records must be run in taxis between hospitals that are close to Oslo geographically, because the computer systems do not communicate with each other. Making use of ICT opportunities is a forward-looking approach to improving patient treatment, and it is essential to ensure that it is technically possible to exchange the necessary information between different computer systems. The need for better coordination and resource use between Health South and Health East, in the Oslo area in particular, was debated during the budget procedure of the Grand Duchy last autumn. The Government has now decided to merge Health South and Health East and to establish a new regional health company called Health South-East RHF by 1 July 2007 at the latest. The aggregation is based on equivalence between Health South and Health East. We're going to establish something new, based on the best of both regions. The size of workplaces in Hamar and Ski will be maintained. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Government Parties and the Progress Party and the Right, support the Government’s decision to establish Health South-East. Hospitals need to be organised in such a way as to optimise patient treatment and a pooling of resources that currently need to be used for purposes other than patient treatment, in order to strengthen patient treatment. The same majority support the Government's assumption that benefits to Health South-East can be achieved through efforts to improve coordination and resource use must be maintained in the region and benefit from patient care throughout the new region. Another important premise is that a combination, in addition to benefiting the metropolitan area, will also benefit patient provision throughout the new region and the other regions, because the parallel construction of equivalent capacity in several locations in the Oslo area draws specialist resources from the district and from the other regions. Better coordination in the metropolitan area can therefore provide better opportunities for the recruitment of health professionals and specialists elsewhere in the country, both inside and outside the new region. A pooling will also provide a basis for strengthening research. Overall, therefore, a comprehensive administrative superstructure and joint governance will provide a more robust basis for overall governance, for the benefit of patients. Health South-East becomes a large region, both in terms of employees and in terms of economics. But it is important to clarify that this is about establishing a new common regional superstructure. This does not mean dramatic for individual local hospitals and health businesses. Remedying the hospital economy is the most important budgetary issue in health policy. In the bill, the government is promoting proposals to strengthen hospitals by 800 million. kr in addition to approx. EUR 75 billion as allocated by the Stortinget in the 2007 budget. Of the 800 million, 50 million. DKK set aside for interaction projects between the specialist health service and the municipalities, and 50 million. kr intended to strengthen the work on drugs. The remaining 700 million are distributed between health regions, so that Health Middle Norway receives 275 million. SEK, Health Nord 225 million. SEK, Health West 100 million. kr and new Health South-East 100 mill. kr. The Labour Party, SV and the Centre Party agree with the Government that the economic situation of health businesses is very demanding in several regions and very serious in the two northernmost regions, Health Mid-Norway and Health Nord. We therefore support the proposal for additional appropriations to strengthen the economy of regional health businesses in such a way that we can continue to provide good and equivalent healthcare to the whole population. This will also contribute to strengthening the rural economy of the new region. At the same time, we see that Health Mid-Norway and Health Nord are now getting a larger share of the funds than a distribution according to the ordinary income system should provide. We understand this in the light of the very serious economic situation facing these two regional health businesses. Furthermore, we point out that the Ministry has set up a sample to assess the current distribution of income between regional health enterprises, and we are responding to the outcome of this assessment. It is important to stress that while we are still facing significant challenges in relation to the hospital economy, we have also achieved a great deal. The government has cleared up the increased pension costs, the investment funds are escalating by DKK 1 billion by 2010, additional resources have been allocated to correct distortions, and the basic funds have increased. The additional appropriations now invited to be adopted by the Stortinget constitute, together with the already adopted increase in the State budget, a significant increase for hospitals. New information from the Norwegian Patient Register shows that in 2006, there were 58 000 more stays in Norwegian hospitals than in the previous year – an increase of 4.3 pst. It concerns hospitalisations, day surgery and day care. Last year more than 1.4 million were registered. stay in public and private somatic hospitals. In addition, it was more than 3.5 million. Outpatient consultations in 2006 — an increase from 2005 of 2.7 pst. I would like to stress that the Government is warning several other measures to ensure better patient treatment and resource use, including increasing reporting and management requirements, improving the use of ICT and strengthening employee participation in migration processes. The activity-based funding system shall be reviewed with a view to linking the ISF refund to patient trajectory rather than to individual submissions. We have to make sure that it is the patients who need the most, who are given priority first, and we have to make sure that the funding system does not give incentives for patients to be discharged prematurely. Such a conversion of the ISF refund could help to avoid both unfortunate distortions in relation to who is being prioritised and to ensure better patient progression. In addition, a conversion could facilitate better control of expenditure. Of the additional allocation of 800 million. DKr 50 million. to specific interaction projects between specialist health services and municipalities, as a follow-up to work related to local hospitals. This is the case in the North of Health, in the Westfold, and in Health Fonna in the West of Health. In a healthcare service where people are to be at the centre, good interaction between levels of administration is essential for the overall provision of treatment, and therefore some pilot projects are important for the further development of such interaction. That's also going to be 50 million. additional appropriations for multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug abuse under the auspices of the specialist health service. As a result, appropriations for various forms of drug treatment have increased by around 210 million. since this government joined. In many cases, waiting time for evaluation and treatment is too long. There is therefore a need for an exceptional effort to strengthen the drug field, to have more treatment and to ensure new treatment according to the rules in force and to set deadlines. The government has also announced a treatment guarantee for young people under 23 years of age and a contingency plan for the drug field.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1193	We have ambitious objectives for health policy. Services must be of high quality. They shall be available within acceptable waiting time and distance and shall reach all, irrespective of their economic, social, age, gender and ethnic background. Norwegian healthcare is among the best in the world, and there is good reason to be proud of it. Never before have so many patients been treated, there have never been so many employees in Norwegian hospitals, and we have never given as much money as we do today. In 2006, more than 1.4 million were registered. stay in public and private somatic hospitals. There is an increase of 58 000 compared to 2005. So in addition, it was over 3.5 million. Outpatient consultations in 2006–390,000 more than it was in 2002. There has been a growth in health in the east of about 27 000, in health in the south around 22 000, in health in the west of 8 000, in health in the middle of Norway at 5,000 and in health in the north of 6 000. Private commercial hospitals had 10,000 fewer stays in 2006 than in 2005, i.e. a decrease of about 20 p.p. in relation to 2005. This decline is often offset by the increase in our public and private ideal hospitals. This is in line with the government's policy. Private commercial hospitals are an important complement to the public sector, but key welfare tasks are primarily to be addressed through the good use of public services and public resources. Free capacity in public hospitals shall be used in the best possible way, and the figures from last year show that there was a lot to go on in public hospitals. In 2005, there were about 1,200 more doctors and about 2,400 more specialists than in 2002. At the same time, we get more health services again per year. annual work resulting from increased efficiency. Despite strong growth in the demand for hospital services in recent years, waiting times within somatic areas have been reduced and have stabilised on average for around 70 days. In the period 2002-2007, operating appropriations for hospitals have actually increased by around DKK 8 billion. A lot works well at our hospitals. We get help for a lot of health problems, and we don't wait very long for help. Hospitals maintain a consistently high level of activity and good quality throughout the country. However, we are facing medical-technological changes that provide documented improved survival and treatment outcomes. These developments contribute, for example: to provide treatment to several older people, because the treatment is now more gentle. It helps to increase the quality of life for an increasing proportion of the population, and I will mention two examples. The incidence of myocardial infarction and cardiovascular spasm among men aged 40 to 74 years is, for example, reduced by 70 pst. in the last 35 years. Of course, the reasons for this positive development are more effective prevention measures, such as lifestyle changes, but also improvements in methods and how to treat them. New and more patient-friendly technology has, for example: enable blood flow to be restored in dense veins and perform curative procedures before the myocardial infarction has developed. There has been a doubling of the number of patients receiving this treatment, from about 5,000 patients in 2000 to almost 12000 in 2005. While age was previously emphasised, the methods are now so gentle that life-long treatment can be offered without open surgery, so that in practice there is no longer any age limit for the treatment of heart disease. Another example is the prevalence of obesity in Norway. It is increasing among children, young people and adults. We know that these are risk factors for a number of diseases and plagues. The most common diseases are diabetes 2, high blood pressure, heart attack, arthralgia, etc. In the past, there were few or no treatment options for this group. For example, a few years ago we operated. 20 patients a year, today we treat 1,000. This shows that there has been a relatively large increase in treatment provision for this patient group. The growing demand for health care and the ability to deal with more people in a better and more gentle way also give us some challenges. It is becoming increasingly important to prioritise correctly and to facilitate organisationally the best possible use of professional and financial resources. I have recently established a new National Council on Quality and Priority in Health. That's because we need a common knowledge and value base for prioritisation. 13 women and 13 men have been given the responsibility to make us more sure that wise choices are made when new treatment is to be introduced. The knowledge of patients about their own disease and life situation is a significant contribution to the overall competence of the healthcare system. That's why I've chosen to give this advice strong user representation. It is a clear signal that the Government is emphasising on maintaining the user perspective in all the work we are doing. The mandate of the Council covers the health service: children, young people, adults, the elderly, both primary health services, specialist health services, mental health, drug treatment and somatics. It also means that the Council has been given a very special responsibility to make groups that do not otherwise have such a high status in our healthcare. One of the main tasks of the Council will be to make recommendations on how patients should receive an equivalent offer. This means – and I would like to make it quite clear – that when agreement is reached on the introduction of new treatment methods and, for example, the introduction of new treatments. new expensive cancer medicines, people throughout the country shall have access to them. It shall not depend on the health region in which you live. Another important task for the Council is the interaction between specialist health services and municipalities. We know a lot that decisions at one level have consequences at another level. When e.g. Older people are posted from hospitals, and in some cases, perhaps early enough, we know that it has consequences for what primary health services have to do with in terms of offers, rehabilitation or other things. Setting up this council means that I want these kinds of issues to enter into ordinary priority processes. The Council shall contribute to a better basis for achieving the objective of equivalent, quality good and modern services for all, irrespective of background, economy, geography, age and gender. The merger of Health South and Health East is a matter that the Government has been working on for a long time. As we are well known, we also received transmission proposals from two opposition parties here in Stortinget on the same matter. As Stortinget is well known, major challenges have long been associated with specialist health services, especially in the capital area. There is a need for better coordination and coordination between Health South and Health East, in order to improve patient provision and much better use of resources. I'm glad that there's a lot of support for this merger, and that it's the best way to meet these challenges. We are now in the middle of the preparations for the establishment of Health South-East RHF and are working to wind up today's two regional health companies. Among other things, as you know, I have recently appointed the future board. The establishment of Health South-East is taking place within the corporate model, and all of this is an important step forward for Norwegian specialist healthcare, and above all for patients. The government assumes that everything should be in place by 1 July at the latest, but that's why we're trying to speed it up. When the government in February proposed additional appropriations to our hospitals, it was because we thought it was necessary – it is obvious. The reason why the proposal was put forward at that time was that the budgetary processes of regional health businesses for 2007 revealed more demanding challenges than the government was aware of when we presented our government budget in October last year. In two of the regions, Health Mid-Norway and Health Nord, the economic challenges have become so great that at the end of 2006, the two boards reported to me that they could not reach the 2007 Bigton performance requirement without having significant negative consequences for patient provision. On this basis, the Government chose to propose additional appropriations. I would like to stress that this is in close proximity to some desired situation. I believe that appropriations, as far as possible, should be given once a year, and that is in the ordinary treatment of the government budget for the coming year. I think there should be very strong reasons to deviate from this in the future. Nor is it a desired situation that we have proposed a different allocation of the additional appropriations than the allocation according to the ordinary income system should provide. It's not going to be a habit either. However, the distribution was absolutely necessary in order to maintain a decentralised and good professional offer for patients in the two northernmost regions, which face the greatest economic challenges. As announced in the proposal, I am now taking further action to improve the follow-up and control of regional health businesses. The Ministry has already had the first full review of economic developments so far in 2007 for all five regional health enterprises. My main impression is that many important steps have now been taken to improve the control and reporting system between the regional level and the individual health establishments locally. I also expect this to be reflected in the results achieved by health businesses. However, the first forecasts for 2007, based on the first two months of this year, show that health businesses are still facing very demanding tasks. The additional appropriations proposed are a lot of money at the beginning of a year. However, we need to be prepared to implement conversion measures in many health care establishments in order to meet the performance requirements of the Storing. After the drug reform, there has been a significant increase in referrals to drug treatment in the specialist healthcare service. I believe that waiting time for assessment and treatment in many cases is too long. That's one of the reasons why we're suggesting that we allocate 50 million. In addition to this year’s effort to reduce the number of drug addicts waiting and to ensure that more people receive treatment. The work on the drugs field is highly prioritised by this government. I want to come back to the Stortinget with a detailed account of the evaluation of the drug reform as soon as it is possible, and I will also shortly present an escalation plan for the drug field, where I am going to promote further action. Finally, local hospitals are a very important part of Norwegian healthcare. This is also confirmed by the working group that we set down in the autumn to perform the emergency functions of local hospitals. The working group pointed out that 50 to 70 p.m. of patients hospitalised acutely, can also be completed in local hospitals. There is a broad consensus that local hospitals represent a security of communities and that their advantage is broad competence, proximity and local knowledge. Local hospitals shall also provide services of high quality and the same quality requirements shall apply to small hospitals as to large hospitals. As is well known, the working group recommends some general principles, standards and measures to continue to ensure high quality in emergency functions, emergency medical treatment chains and in the local hospital function for others. I am now putting pressure on the work to get a positive development in the local hospitals. By proposing 50 million. In order to follow up proposals from the working group, we will try out new models and new projects to further improve local hospitals. These will be incentives for action across the country. I would also like to come back to Stortinget as soon as possible and explain how I can imagine that the proposals from the working group on local hospitals will be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1261	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1264	I want to ask a question to the Council of State, based on the statement she has made, but initially I have to say that I am a little surprised at the way health companies have acted in this matter. A month and a half ago, Health Mid-Norway decided to distribute this money. That is to say, a month and a half before the Grand Government as the granting authority now grants this money, decisions have been made on the board. I think it is a very strange way to have respect for the Storting and Storting's work as the granting authority, and it might have been tempting to ask if the Council of State will look a little at that matter, and on how to actually act. So to my question to the Council of State. The accounts are now beginning to be settled in regional health enterprises. In that situation, I ask the Council of State to explain a little bit about the actual situation of last year. Is the situation as expected, or can it, as messages indicate, that the situation is worse than we could expect?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1273	Firstly, in the case of decisions in Health Mid-Norway, it is, I am aware, not so that the funds are distributed. No decision has been taken on their internal use in the region. Of course, you have to wait for the money until the Storting has decided to do so. I think that is quite clear. In the case of the situation per person. Now, I can try to give you a little more detailed overview of that. At the end of February this year, the results of hospitals show a negative deviation from the budget of 179 million. kr. So the main picture is that Health North still has quite demanding challenges. In Health Mid-Norway we see a significant improvement. Not least now it is joyous that for the first time in many years there seems to be light in the tunnel also at St. Olav's Hospital, which has been the great headache in Health Mid-Norway for many years. Health West seems to be going very well. Not least, Health Bergen seems to be balancing. In the case of Health East, they report that they have demanding conversion measures, but they commit themselves to balancing in the current year. That's the main picture, very briefly told.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1280	18 January of this year, i.e. two months ago, the factions of the four opposition parties wrote letters to the Council of State asking the Council of State to come to the Stortinge to explain the situation of health businesses. I am uncertain whether this is to be understood as the statement, but we have not received any written reply, so I would like to know when we can expect to receive such an answer. The second question relates to the new way of keeping statistics, when it comes to the distinction between what is called private non-profit and private commercial hospitals. I'm a little interested in how that boundary line is drawn, according to which criteria, whether it's the organisational form of hospitals. To put it into concrete terms, what is e.g. The celebration clinic? Is it non-profit-making, or is it commercial, in the Council of State's statistics?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1287	Firstly, the Storting has received a written answer to the question raised by the opposition parties. We reported back in the proposition where we made suggestions about these 800 million. kr, where we also announced that the government would unite Health South and Health East. I believe that both of the two measures are measures to make the situation in our healthcare system in this part of the country, in the two regions now becoming one, and in the country otherwise significantly better than what was the starting point. So I don't keep any statistics on which hospitals are what, but to the specific question, I feel the need to say two things: one is that the increase that has been in the public hospitals has been significantly greater than what has been the decline in private and commercial. In the case of the Feiringklinik in particular, one of the hospitals we believe is called ‘private non-profit hospitals’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1294	I'm glad to have the Council of State's description of the local hospital, and that she says that the local hospital is important. I very much agree with that, but the fact is that we have something that is called critical mass, and if an institution, a local hospital in particular, gets so small that it comes under the critical mass, he will collapse. It's a fact that many of these local hospitals are already so small today that they're probably under the critical mass. So the council says she'll come back and follow up this local health report pretty quickly. But time goes by, and there's no time to lose, I think, so my question is the following: Will the government send out a clear message to healthcare professionals that everyone cut when it comes to local hospitals, now must be up until the follow-up to the local health report is laid on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1302	It is again important for me to stress that all local hospitals will pass. To the extent that there's still some debate about it, and that happens from time to time, it's wasted energy. I fully agree with the representative Ludvigsen that it is important that these hospitals have enough to do and sensible things to do. Then my reasoning is that it is necessary enough for everyone. It's just that we distribute the work in such a way that people are safe that they get the help they need, for example. that there are no too long distances for emergency services, even in the case of food supply, for which very many women are naturally concerned. That's why it's so important for the 50 million. kr that we have now proposed, and as it appears that we are getting a connection from Stortinget, so that we can try out different models to organise this in a better way. Then the changes that happen at the hospitals have to go their way, but I can assure the representative that the government intends to come back to Stortinget with how we will propose that we follow up the report of the working group in a timely and appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1309	I want to follow up on the previous lines, because they just went to the local hospitals. One thing is that we're saying that the local hospitals are going to pass. It's very good in the Soria Moria statement, and I think most of us actually want the local hospitals to pass. The issue is related to the hospital content, and it is just the report on what these local hospitals should contain that we are waiting for. We see that there is a process in regional health companies: they talk about summer-related food departments, and they talk about recruitment problems because they actually don't know what local hospitals are going to contain in the future, what they're going to do. It makes us afraid that the recruitment problems are going to get even bigger if we don't get on the track quite quickly and define what they're going to contain. I will challenge the Council of State: When can we expect to get that matter here? Just to stop all the debates and uncertainties about both recruitment and other things in hospitals, we need to put this in place so that we can secure local hospitals, which are so important to the local population.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1318	I propose to make some proposals for follow-up already in the revised national budget – it is not far away. What we can't do at that time, I'm going back to the state budget. I fully agree with the representative Nesvik that it is important to clarify a framework for what local hospitals should contain, whether there will be differences around the country. I'm assuming we're in complete agreement on that. In the case of recruitment, which is a significant problem single places in the country, I believe that some doctors in the future need to be more open to go out there patients are: from large hospitals to small hospitals, more outpatients to hospitals, etc. I am also concerned that we need to have a review of the tour instructions for doctors, to see if we can do anything there to ensure more medical work, for example. in part of our smallest local hospital. The government shall not spend more time than is absolutely necessary, to come back to what we think should be the follow-up to this in order to ensure the security we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1329	I thank the Council of State for the answer to my first question regarding the boundary line defined in the private hospital category, but will still ask that if in the future you intend to serve figures based on a sharp breakdown where the public hospitals merge with some private hospitals, unlike other private hospitals, you should make very clear what the criteria for this breakdown are. There are, for example: a whole range of ideal private hospitals if they are organised as whole share companies. So to the priority council that the Council of State has set up, which she commented on as a very interesting innovation. It took ten years for us to propose permanent advice in the second priority investigation, until the Council of State has now established it, and it is good that it has come into place. But the Council of State said this was primarily to ensure a similar offer across the country. The Administrative Managers of all five regional health establishments are now members of the Council, but the mandate of the Council has clarified that this does not oblige regional health undertakings to comply with the Council recommendations. How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1336	As the representative of Wage is familiar with, I have not been the Council of State for ten years. On the other hand, for many of those years, the Right has had the opportunity to appoint this new National Council, which this government now appoints very shortly after we took over. One of the reasons I've put in people who are responsible for the service is that they're going to go out and do the job. I've made it quite clear to regional health companies: they're going to lay a decision-making ground for us politicians to decide what we're going to decide about, and for them to make decisions about the professional, and then they're going to go home and do this job. It is one of the main differences on this Council versus the previous Council, which also consisted of excellent people, but had no responsibility in the service. I think that was also one of the reasons why we didn't get it into practice. Then I understand that there is a bit of a problem with the representative's salary that we have had an increase of a total of 58 000 stays in our public hospital in 2006 compared to 2005. It is a formidable increase in comparison with the small decline that it is after all in private, commercial hospitals. I would like to stress that private commercial hospitals are also a useful supplement, but this shows that there was a lot to go on in the public health service, which was not used well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1345	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1348	First of all, I'm actually going to do something that's probably a little unfamiliar, and it's that I'm going to brag by the Council of State, because she's promoted this proposal for supplementary appropriations, especially in the light of the debate we had here last autumn. I remember that debate very well, because the Progress Party proposed an increase of SEK 1.5 billion to the hospitals in the light of the reports we received on the economic situation, which we saw related to the tightening-up proposals and savings proposals that were then available and which would result in a reduced patient offer, put some departments at risk and led to redundancies in a number of hospitals in the country. I also very well remember one of the debates last fall where the Council of State stated the following: This government grants money to the hospitals only once a year. We'll do that in the budget. So it went over one month, and then there was a proposal for an additional 800 million. kr. Let's put what's been behind us, and now start looking forward. How, then, can we help to help patients get the help they need when they need it? I'm going to use an example of how things don't always work: on Friday I got a phone call from a heart patient in central Norway who had first been told that it would take several years before he could get help to correct the heart rate. He attributed Haukeland Hospital and was told from Haukeland that the free hospital choice was not valid in this situation, because they had enough to do in their own health region, so they couldn't accept him. He applied again for his nearest hospital, which is St. Olav's Hospital, and has now received an answer: 18 months waiting! This is a person who is very uncertain about his own future, because the heart rate goes up and down. This shows that we have a way to go. This also shows that hospitals face major challenges. We're going to take that on, because it's our job as big-time politicians to do it. The progress party suggests 700 million in this setting. kr in addition to what the Government proposes in its proposal. We believe that it might actually be a little bit small, given the feedback that the Council of State now came up with, that it might look even worse last year than what you knew about. Fortunately, some health businesses are doing better. It is quite obvious that many face major challenges, including: because in order to cover current expenditure, it is necessary to raise overdrafts. We know that's very expensive. We've also got a clarification about the write-off regime, so we're now going to get an 80 pst. of replacement value, not 100 pst., and we know that there are large planned expansions in the specialist health service. That is why we are promoting this proposal for an additional 700 million. kr in addition to the proposed amount. It is distributed according to the normal distribution criteria. The national Council of State now appointed by the Council of State, linked to knowledge and priorities, is an important advice. However, it is important that we allow the Council to operate in the best possible way, so that it can also take seriously the recommendations it makes. As the Council of State said in its statement, it will make recommendations, and then follow the usual processes in order to have these advice implemented, if necessary, in the political context. It is then important that we do not create more expectations than what is actually in this Council mandate, so that we know that this must go through the processes that are needed to achieve that non-discrimination. In today's situation, in some cases, the address of one's residence is decisive for what kind of help one gets or, unfortunately, does not receive. It can't actually be like that. With regard to the merger of Health South and Health East, I have previously given the Council of State the brunt of action. I will repeat that from this pulpit. We saw early in the process that the government colleagues were skeptical. You could be, because you have different approaches to this reform and the way it's done, so there's no criticism of them. But it is very good that we take the steps that are needed in terms of organisation, and seize it to get the most out of the resources that are at all times allocated to the health sector and to the specialist health service. I think it's very much positive to go through the aggregation done here. It's also important that we take on board that when we talk about the synergy we're going to get in place, this can take time. I don't think we're going to have the big expectations that we're getting some huge positive synergy that first year, maybe not the second year either, but this will evolve over time. At that time, it is very important that this major health region retain its resources, so that it can evolve as the Stortinget has said it will develop as it does. It is clear that what we saw in Health East and Health South in terms of the divider line – which can be called popular – in the capital, created major problems and an unsustainable situation, as we are actually a country with no more than 4.6 million inhabitants. I have said that in the Progress Party we see this as the first step on the way. I know that the Council of State deeply disagrees with me on whether this is going to be the first or the last step on the way, but we're now seeing what the future brings. The only thing we know about the future is that we don't know what it's going to be like, and that we're probably going to be wrong about some and each of us. But we'll see now! Furthermore, I think it is important that, as the Council of State also says, you go in with more control, just to have control of what's going on out there – especially within a part of what the Storting has also said that you have to grips with. I mention geriatri, and among other things specialist education just inside the geriatrics. Now what do we do to meet this challenge? We have now adopted in this House a message of care with a lot of good action, but then the question is, what do we do next to follow up these measures? Geriatry is going to be one of the really big challenges, where hospitals have to put in place departments of well-educated people. Furthermore, we see that we still have a big problem with corridor Asians. In my opinion, it's an entirely unsustainable situation that people in the world's best country to live in, as you say, have to lie in the corridors of hospitals. It's totally unacceptable. We also know that we will have a trend in which the number of older people over 80 years will increase significantly in the coming years, and that one of the places that will notice this is just a medical facility in hospitals. Then it is important that we have the plans clear, and that the hospitals are prepared for this, so that we ensure that this group gets what is going to happen. As far as psychiatry is concerned, unfortunately, we now also see that some departments are being proposed. They say you should take care of this internally in hospitals instead of having departments out in the population. Some examples we have on this, and that makes me a little bit worried, because the Storting has said that we should have a significant growth in psychiatry. There we're not going to have any decline, we're going to have a growth. That growth must be clear, and that growth must be large. Then it's important that we get plans in place for the cooperation arenas. In particular, we now see that there is a lack of significant interaction within psychiatry in order to be able to receive patients in the municipalities who can be posted from institutions. The same is true in the care of drug users. To put it straight out, it makes no sense that if you are going to detoxify a person first, the same person is to be told that it is going to be two months before he or she can come to treatment. Tell a heroin addict, I'll guarantee that this person has resumed his abuse fairly quickly. In other words, there must be a connection between the expectations that we create and the offer that is actually given out there. It is this house that is responsible for it, and it is the Council of State that is responsible for it every day. I hope these things fall into place, but I am afraid, unfortunately, that we will still see many proposals relating to savings, that some have to cancel people and go to the closure of departments and summer-related departments, because the funds we give are not sufficient. With regard to the number of patients treated, there is only a lack of an increase, because no government has ever had more money available. The question is, how are we going to use them, and how are we going to use them most effectively? It is also read in the text of the proposal which the Party of Advancement is promoting and which is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1382	The representative, Harald T. Nesvik, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1385	Let me also begin by commending the Council of State for the way in which she handled the issue of the merger between the health regions of East and South, on the basis of the transmission decision adopted in Stortinget just before Christmas. It happened very resolutely. Such cases must be implemented resolutely, and there is reason to recognise them. At the same time, let me express a never so little concern about the further follow-up to the case, because all experience shows that if you want to succeed in that kind of process, you need to maintain the dynamics and pace, so that there are no situations in the organisations concerned that create uncertainty about the implementation or, in the worst case, that lead to people applying away. I have some concerns about the implementation, but I hope that the Council of State is right when she says in her post that everything should be in place by 1 July. So a little comment on the little line exchange with the Council of State on the establishment of the new Council of Priorities. I didn't mean to criticize that it has been a long time. It is now the case in the Norwegian system that it usually takes ten years from a thought being launched until it is implemented. The exact same thing happened when the establishment of hospice wards in public hospitals was concerned. It also took ten years. So there might be some kind of legality in the Norwegian system. But what I asked about was really what I see as an excuse for a contradiction in the way the Council's mandate is defined, because, in my opinion, the mandate is a strange mix of something that can look like a decision-making body to ensure national coordination on the one hand, and which is a purely professional advisory body on the other. That is why I asked the Council of State specifically about what, at my discretion, is the most remarkable point of the mandate, namely that it has been found necessary to clarify in the mandate that the fact that the top management of all regional health companies is in the Council does not mean that the Council's recommendations bind regional health companies, i.e. health establishments will still be able to take completely different decisions on how to prioritise. I think the Council of State should try to explain what is the idea behind this way of formulating the mandate. So to what is the main point of what we are dealing with here, namely the proposal for supplementary appropriations. In the comments from the government parties in the setting, a very strong word is used, and the case-rapporteur repeated these words in his post. It is said that ‘the economic situation of health establishments is very demanding in several regions and very serious in the two northern regions’. This is a very powerful use of language. What is not stated in the remark from the Government Parties is whether this description applies before the administration of additional funds or even after the administration of additional funds. Is it so to understand that the proposed supplementary appropriations mean that they have given an adequate response to the drastic description, so that from now on there is no longer a serious situation, either in the north or in the other health establishments? It would be useful to clarify. With regard to the main part of the Council of State's contributions, which was an expansion of the production figures for 2006, which has now been given, there is also a small cross of thought, because when the Council of State boasts as far as unaffected by these figures, there is a question as to whether not a significant part of the explanation for these figures is that regional health enterprises have overdrawn their accounts and have spent money they should not have spent, and as the Council of State criticises them for having used them. The Council of State explicitly said that it is far from desirable to have a situation in which the Government must return to the Storting less than two months after the Storing has aged the budget. I remind you that as late as the last day before the Great Britain split up before Christmas, the Minister of Finance explicitly interpolated, who then represented the Government in the Chamber, to confirm that the assumptions underlying the health budget really held, and that the basis on which the Grand Duchy was invited to adopt the budget, namely that the balance sheet requirements would be met, were at hand. It was confirmed by the Government that it was standing by. Then came in February and found a solid crack, which showed that the Stortinge budget proposal in December was taken on a completely failing basis. I share the opinion of the Council of State that it is very little desirable that such a process become a repetition phenomenon. At the time when the Storting adopts the budget in December, the Storting should have sufficient knowledge – and it will come from the Government – to take a realistic budgetary decision for the coming year. With regard to the financial situation of health enterprises, it must be noted that the increase in the appropriations of health enterprises in Norway over the last five years has been quite staggering. During the last government period, i.e. the four years 2001–2005, there was an increase of SEK 4.5 billion, i.e. a real increase of more than 10 pst. in the appropriations of health establishments. The increase is still under this government, but we all still have a rather alarming feeling that we do not have safe ground under our feet as to whether the funds allocated to regional health businesses are really adequate, that is. really is that they meet the real need. The test on the condition is not primarily the number of outpatient consultations or the number of hospitalisations that have been carried out in one year. The real test of the condition is the waiting times. Output increases little if demand increases even more. The biggest need to know is whether there is a reasonable degree of consistency between the needs of users and what healthcare businesses are able to deliver. There are so far no figures that indicate that the waiting times are generally moving in the right direction. In some specific areas, we have knowledge that shows that they are moving in the wrong direction, that is. waiting times increase. Let me then point to the special point that relates to appropriations for drug treatment. It's a pleasure that the government is now proposing to allocate 50 million. NOK extra for this. That is the exact amount proposed by the Right in its proposal for the 2007 State Budget. We're glad we're now getting such an increase. However, this is not apparent from the proposition, nor from the committee setting, when the Storting can expect the planned escalating of the field advertised to be available. It should have existed by the end of 2006. That's why the majority of the committee, all the parties except the three government parties, put their finger on this in the vote, and said, ‘The majority of the Committee notes that the plan of escalation had been announced in the autumn of 2006 and that there is a pressing need to strengthen treatment provision in the light of increased referrals and waiting times for such treatment. [[...]] The majority assume that the Government will give higher priority to this work in the future.’ I would like to hear the State Council's comment on whether the Committee can count on the Government continuing to give higher priority to the work on the escalation plan for the drug field.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1409	It is no secret that SV did not want a solution with the aggregation of Health East and Health South, and I have no intention of pretending otherwise. But when that is said, we are very pleased that the merger is part of a total package of increased management and strengthening of hospitals' finances, the specific strengthening of care and local hospitals, the review of the funding system for hospitals with a view to seeing the whole patient cycle in the context, the creation of regional councils and trials to improve employee involvement and interaction between first- and second-line services. In the future, it will be important for SV to contribute to the optimum functioning of the new region and to avoid the dangers that many people have warned against. In this respect, it is important to stress that we must then be aware of problems and disadvantages that may arise, and that we must be responsive to patients, relatives and employees so that together we can contribute to the success of the new region. That is why I will immediately bring forward some of the problems that may arise and that we must be aware of. First, there can be a great distance, both actual and experienced, between the decision-makers and the administration on the one hand, and the residents, the patients, the relatives and the employees on the other. Patient and employee organisations have warned against this. So we need to listen extra carefully to their advice on how to avoid this happening. I would strongly like to call for real user involvement, openness, good processes, employee involvement and employee-initiated conversion. Other dangers we should be aware of are the risk of increased centralisation — internally in the region and between regions. We can experience staff migration and increased dissatisfaction or passivity from the other regions, because the scale of the imbalance can be perceived as too large. Increased red tape has been mentioned by some. As a western fold, I am also concerned about what will happen to psychiatry, which is directly subject to regional level and therefore better protected from the ‘taking’ of their budgets. I think it is important to recognise these possible disadvantages and dangers, so that we can actively meet them with countermeasures. The background to our handling of this matter is the major and growing problems in the capital area in terms of coordinating development projects and investments. This has been a big problem for a long time, and I hope we get a grip on this now. It is our hope that a combination of Health South and Health East will ensure better patient treatment through, among other things. better use of resources and, in addition, provide a basis for better recruitment of health professionals and specialists elsewhere in the country, both inside and outside the new region. We also hope that a merger will provide a basis for strengthening research. It is a prerequisite that the benefits of Health South-East RHF are achieved through efforts to improve coordination and resource use, maintained in the region and benefit from patient care throughout the new region. I want to say a little bit more about the funding system. SV is very pleased that the activity-based funding system is to be reviewed with a view to linking the ISF to patient pathways rather than to individual deployments. Such conversion could improve cost control, help to avoid unfortunate distortions and ensure better patient trajectories. The national audit has repeatedly highlighted weaknesses in today’s model, and many health companies are dissatisfied with how the model works. I believe that a system where the ISF refund is linked to patient progression will improve the problems many chroniclers experience in today's system and could facilitate better cooperation between levels. Therefore, SV is particularly pleased that this is one of the points of the total package that has now been put on the table as a result of the merger between Health South and Health East. We look forward to the results of the interaction projects to be tested in Westfold, Health West and Health North. In this connection, I would like to draw up the interaction project of the municipality of Rana, the so-called Health Park, on which I was briefed when I visited the municipality of Rana earlier this year. The Helgelands Hospital Mo in Rana and the municipality of Rana are behind the plans for this project. A pilot project for the Health Park has looked at how interaction and holistic thinking can contribute to optimal patient provision. Like many other places in the country, Rana also feels that pre-treated patients stay in the hospital because the municipality cannot give them a satisfactory offer. For the municipality, this means, among other things. that it has to pay daily pay to the hospital, and for the hospital, this means that the capacity to accept new patients who need treatment is getting worse – that is, a poor deal. For patients, of course, this is unsustainable and burdensome. The hospital and the hospital are in the wall, and on the third floor of the hospital, which has a direct connection to the hospital, is the thought, among other things. the establishment of rehabilitation facilities, facilities for ready-to-print patients, training places for planned surgery and short-term places. SINTEF Health also has faith in the project. I hope the department will see positive developments in this. I know that the department has received a preliminary briefing and request. Other interaction problems we face concern, for example: psychiatry – the situation in Bergen has been mentioned in today’s VG. This was probably also Nesvik inside, as far as I remember, and also problems that arose in the care of the russian, he was in the middle of it. I share his description 100 pst. It is this government's clear ambition to tackle the problems that arise from the fact that patients entering acute detoxification do not have a treatment offer standing clear. It's completely pointless and wasted in every way, and it creates a lot of unnecessary suffering, that ruspacers, who belong to that patient group with the highest morbidity and the highest mortality, after a detoxification, are released into the street again without having an offer. The offer may also consist of motivational clinics, which have been successfully tested, among other things. Here in Oslo. But that you have to have a good and close follow-up, there should be no doubt about it. I also think it is important to remember that for relatives of this group of patients there is an extreme strain when their loved one finally gets an offer of acute detoxification and then is sent out on the street again – they stay there and don't know if they fall right out into the drug environment again. Many people also experience an overdose. I would also like to highlight another field that I believe will be important in terms of the escalation plan, and it concerns prisons. 60 pst. prison inmates in Norway have extensive drug problems. Here we also see a lack of interaction between prison services on the one hand and drug treatment services and municipalities on the other. When people, after perhaps finally being free of sleep for a while, get out right out on the street without having an offer standing, that means that very many ports in new crime. It is pointless, and it also creates very much unnecessary suffering both for people who are exposed to crime, for relatives and for those who may have finally been motivated. In particular, I would like to highlight Stifinner in Oslo Prison as a very good example of a good interaction offer, where the care and criminal services go together to ensure an offer – no one is sent on the street, but on the contrary is prescribed a further treatment course after an end of settlement. I would also like to draw up another example of good interaction. I was in the state council's own home state on Thursday and Friday, and on Thursday I visited the Hernes Institute, which is an offer for work-oriented rehabilitation. I am a little concerned about the very future of these institutions now, and will ask the Council of State to look at this, and that the Ministry of Health and Welfare also assume responsibility in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, so that they do not fall between two chairs. It is in the clear interest of society that patients belonging to the large group of musculo-skeletal disorders receive a rapid offer, so that not many of them end up in long-term sickle messages and perhaps incapacitation. It is also formulated as a clear objective both by the Government and by the social partners. What I want to warn against is that you think too much in terms of action chains – patients don't live their lives in action chains – but we think of simultaneous and integrated action. What's so good about these rehabilitation institutions is that they get the opportunity to investigate patients by offering daily services, that patients can have time to find out if there's another type of race they're going to put on, and that they get a type of agent into the NAV system that's following them and making sure they don't get thrown away. Finally, I would like to warn against the desire of the Progress Party and the Right for a hospital directorate. In SV we find it strange that these two parties want a more top-notch and bureaucratic system, where important decisions are moved further away from those they concern. Some of the criticisms of health companies have been that the path has gone far from patients to decision-makers, but this will be worse if a hospital directorates are to run the whole country. The risk of centralisation will also increase with such a model, and it will be more difficult for people to know who is responsible for the decisions taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1435	In March this year, the evaluation of the hospital reform came. The evaluation was to see if the targets for reorganization of hospitals were successful. Painting included: increase accessibility, better prioritisation and efficiency. Targets were also set for user involvement, better working environment and participation in organisational processes. Increased activity and thus more treated patients have not been a goal for politicians. Nevertheless, this has happened, and according to the evaluation has come as a result of changing framework conditions. The fact that one has become a better priority appears to indicate that lower priority groups have experienced relatively greatest reductions in waiting time. It can be interpreted as aggravating priority practices. The evaluation of the hospital reform shows that care provision in municipalities has an impact on the length of hospitalisation. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Government has committed itself to projects to increase interaction between health care levels, among others. through the pilot project in Westfold, Health West and Health North. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has called for a mandatory retirement plan through the work on care messages in Stortinget, among others. to strengthen the provision of health and care in municipalities, so that they are more able to take care of outpatients from hospitals. The evaluation of the hospital reform shows that very many health care providers experience a small degree of co-destination. They also experience little involvement in conversion processes. Several of them joined their organizations expressed dissatisfaction with the merger of Health South and Health East. They did not feel that the health merger had been discussed with them. The merger of Health South and Health East involves a strong centralisation of Health Norway. The new health service will add 56 000, and more than half of the population will be part of this campaign. What consequences will this have for most people? The Christian People’s Party fears that it will affect the patients, especially the chroniclers and the long - term ill. Among others, the Joint Organisation of Disabilities — FFO — strongly sceptical about the merger and showed that the individual patient can feel very small in a very large healthcare establishment. The Christian People's Party is also surprised that the Center Party and SV have agreed to this merger and such concentration of both money and power. After what I've got with me, both the Center Party and SV are opponents of the health reform and want hospitals to go to the regions. Once again, it appears that the Labour Party has overrun the other political parties in the Government. Strengthening the drug field in order to get more people to treat and thus secure decent conditions for drug addicts is a very important matter for the Christian People's Party, and a total pledge of SEK 50 million is good. However, it is necessary to point out that the escalating plan for the rainforest has been expected for six months. It is mainly because of the drug addicts that it is disappointing that the government has not yet presented a escalation plan. The Christian People's Party is waiting patiently, but I also noticed the positive signal from the Council of State today that the plan will soon be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1455	First, to the representative Hareide, who is surprised that the Central Party is taking part in this. What surprises me is that the Christian People's Party, which was set up with the Minister of Health last time, did nothing to meet the problem that is in the Oslo area. Otherwise, the representative Hareide knows that the centre party thought there were other ways to solve this than necessarily to merge these two companies. But we accept that it's going to be like that, because we're in a government where we get a lot of good done, also in this field. But this proliferation proposition shows that there are major challenges to specialist health services. This applies, inter alia, to: financial management, interaction between the levels of service and the challenges associated with the rate of efficiency or the level of efficiency actually required by the annual budgets. Sometimes it may sound as if the specialist health service is under constant cutting, whereas the opposite is the case. More than SEK 2.2 billion in 2007 increase compared to 2006, plus this allocation that we are discussing today, says that the government is paying for the specialist health service and is getting good deals for everyone. When the deficit in 2006 according to the proposition was greater than assumed, it is not because money has been squandered. This is primarily due to an increase in hospitalization of as much as 4.3 pst. in relation to last year, and an increase in outpatient activities — more are being treated, which means that capacity is being exploited better, but that there is also a growth that is not initially foreseen in the budget. There are strong forces that want to centralise specialist health services and believe that good health services can only be ensured in the major hospitals. It is therefore encouraging to read the final report of the Local Hospital Committee, which concludes that if: ‘it is organised in such a way that local hospitals take advantage of their advantages, providing high-quality services. Local hospitals are therefore, as the working group sees it, preferred service providers by a majority of specialist health services, including emergency services’. For this reason, it was encouraging in winter to record proposals from local and regional health companies on cuts that had just hit local hospitals. Fortunately, many of these were not implemented, and it is positive to see that the Government's willingness to invest in the local hospitals also seems to reach those who are to administer this service. I repeat something that I have said many times before, that in terms of efficiency, it is primarily in the case of the major hospitals that any gain is to be recovered. So in the case of interaction between the local hospitals and the municipal health service: Here, the Stortinget will grant 50 million. kr for interaction projects, an area with a high potential for improvement. There are several good examples of good interaction between hospitals and municipalities, but no later than today the State Health Authority shows that in the case of disabled children, for example, interaction is poor in many places, with unclear lines of responsibility. It is therefore a very necessary task to engage in good interaction with clear lines of responsibility. The government is proposing an additional 40 million. DKK for multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug abuse and 10 million. kr for medically assisted rehabilitation. References are increasing and capacity needs to be increased. In the case of 700 million. kr not allocated according to the usual criteria, but where Health Nord and Health Mid-Norway have a higher share than Health West and Health South-East, it is simply explained that the economic situation of these two northernmost regional health establishments is more strenuous and more difficult than that of the other health establishments. This shall have nothing to say in relation to this with bias. I just want to remind you that there is a sample in the Council of State that looks at the whole funding of the specialist health service, and bias is one of the points that will also be included in that assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1475	I want to focus my article on the aggregation of Health South and Health East. Left is not part of the broad deal for the coup d'état referred to in its article. On the contrary, we believe that hospitals should be under direct ownership and control of the new county. As we heard from the representative Hareide and the Christian People's Party, they are not part of this broad deal either. And it's interesting when the representative, Thorkildsen, from this chair, says that neither SV is really part of the broad agreement, and I have understood – at least I have now read, black in white, I kept saying – that neither the Center Party is really for this merger. Then I must say that the broad negotiator after my vision is quite narrow. Health South-East will have about 56 000 added. By comparison, the merged StatoilHydro will have 31,000 employees, so Health South-East will be almost twice as large as the giant StatoilHydro. The existing five health care professionals have proved difficult to control, and such a health caregiver as we now get, at least after the Left's opinion, will be a very unmanageable, and I'll say almost uncontrollable giant. What everyone knows about organisational construction and, to say the least, both mergers and fissures, is that one should do such things – not least such a combination as we are talking about here, to a giant undertaking – will face big changes, and conversions require the participation of those added to be successful. I want to say that a 100 pst. the requirements for success are that they are added to feel that they are present and that they are de facto involved in the conversion processes. For a time it was an investigation by the Labour Inspectorate that came under the name «Good watch!» Of them, eight out of ten employees believed that they had little opportunities to participate in the conversion processes that had been so far before health care. The result will, of course, be that there is no improvement in the participation of a large giant enterprise. I think, on the contrary, that it's getting harder. I would like to mention another element in this context when it comes to health promotion reform. In my opinion, she has had many signs of illness. A disease sign of this reform is literally the sinister sick absence that is also increasing. I am quite surprised that the Council of State does not mention this important moment in its contribution today. It is a fact that healthy and motivated employees, not least in the health care sector, are crucial to providing a good and not least effective service. Rose measurement, as the Council of State often does when referring to the reform of health services, may shed some light on the situation, but in my view it is a bad way of getting better health services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1497	The combination of Health South and Health East RHF has been mentioned today by the Progress Party as a very good measure, not only because of the long-term savings potential but also because of a possible continuation, so that health businesses in Norway are replaced in total by a state hospital directorate. The health system in Norway today does not work well enough. There is too much bureaucracy, and a lot of laws, regulations and regulations make the situation unsustainable for many patients – also because of waiting. The health care system must be a freshness and hospitals must be a fresh home, but unfortunately it may look different today. Unfortunately, the waiting list guarantee is in good shape. The warranty is gone or is not working properly. That's the lists again. What about the lists? They don't work either. What is left of the waiting list guarantee? Yes, it's the wait. The patients are waiting. However, the government has realised that there are too few funds allocated to health businesses. But nevertheless, we are experiencing a distribution of imbalances in the budget. The Progress Party is concerned about the unforeseeableness of the Government related to the financing of the specialist health service in Norway. We have behind us a period of debate, closure and conversion of this part of the healthcare system, simply because of unforeseeable and inadequate funding. It is strongly necessary to strengthen state transfers in this area, as the Progress Party has also proposed. The government insists that the input-driven funding, the ISF, will continue to be held at 40 p.m. Despite the positive results we had in the years it was 60 pst. To the Minister’s report today on increasing numbers in terms of treated patients and more health professionals: Nor has Norway had so many inhabitants, so it would have been an advantage if we were given these figures in relative terms. The same applies to the increased appropriations. Nor have we ever had as much money to travel with as today, when we also know that there are exceedances. A relative representation of this would have been an advantage. The Progress Party has for a number of years highlighted the difficulties in making health businesses function properly. We now hope that in conjunction with the merger of Health South and Health East, we can see an approach to establishing a state hospital directorate, so that the health care system becomes a fresh home, and hospitals can become a fresh home.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1512	The two questions dealt with in St.prp. No 44, are both important — the economic situation and the new health region. Now I am sure that the Council of State will come back to some of the issues raised in the debate on the current economic situation, so I will choose to concentrate my contribution on the basic approach that lies in the discussion today and in the proposal of the Government, namely the new health region South-East. I believe what the representative of Nesvik says about synergy taking time is important, but at the same time, I believe that what the representative of Wage said about ensuring implementation is important in approaching this. In implementing this new health region, we must use what is termed ‘momentum’ in the organisational language. We need to use the momentum in this process to speed up the coordination measures that have long been called for in this region. If you don't manage to do these things at the same time, there is a risk that structures will be cemented – which has been in the difference between Health South and Health East – and that they will be brought into the new region. In the relationship between Ullevål Hospital and the Rikshospitale, 21 coordination projects, which have had difficulties in implementing due to two regimes, two economies and a lack of joint decision-making authority, have been launched before the South-East region itself. This applies to cancer treatment. It's about neurosurgery. These include heart and lung diseases, occupational medicine, skin diseases, plastic surgery, revmatology, eye diseases, ear, nose and throat diseases, etc. In all these areas, there are peak functions that you need to work with, and the professional community is busy bringing this up. It is also the case in large hospitals that, within specialities, professional environments with too little – too few patients – can be used to make you feel good enough. There may also be problems in financing the expensive equipment you need. It is clear that researchers who are connected to the clinical environments have an interest in larger units where more impulses and collaboration can be gained. So I think it's important to establish as many of the coordination processes as possible now as possible, in parallel with completing the structural process. I think coordination will provide better offers and less cows and enable us to avoid overcapacity in the future. As far as the latter is concerned, overcapacity, I believe that one must not just look at the situation – the so-called Berlin Wall – in Oslo, but one must look at overcapacity in the whole of the new South-East region. So we must not avoid dealing with the same problems across the region, given what is built up by specialities in the different environments. I also believe that this process – and I know you are doing it – needs to work on ICT development and get it in place at the same time, because what the Stortinge has discussed earlier in an interpellation debate is great opportunities to achieve better cooperation, better resource use and coordination through a common ICT system. It is clear that getting the patient information needed quickly into place in the different parts of the new health region is an urgent matter – the problem of ICT systems needs to be solved – between the major hospitals and between these two major health regions. There is also a great deal to be done in coordinating laboratory services. It is linked to telemedicine, the development of ICT, the carrying out of X-ray analyses, etc. in fewer places and thus obtain a large resource gain. I am also pleased that the Council of State has said that she will look at the recording areas now, start work on the recording areas while implementing the new health region, because it has been obvious that, for example, the recording area of the Rikshospitalet–Radium Hospital has been randomly complex and has not been properly reworked in terms of how it should now be located in the new region. The same applies to hospitals, such as: Aker hospitals. There are many big questions that I am pleased that we have the opportunity to address here in Stortingen today in connection with this basic grip for 55 pst. by the population of Norway, and I hope that we can now solve, while doing the great reorganization.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1531	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1534	It was the representative of Ludvigsen who made me take the floor again. I think the Left and the Ludvigs are fully aware of the central party's position in relation to the specialist health service, which is our primary position. We're in a government. We have made a government statement – the Soria Moria declaration. It clearly states that we are in charge of hospitals during the corporate reform that is now – just so it is completely settled. But there's no secret, and you don't have to make any number of it, either, that the Center Party has a different view. That's the same thing. But this government has actually got something into this area. We have increased the appropriations for health enterprises quite considerably, much more than in the previous period. The government, as mentioned earlier, has set up a local hospital committee that has issued a great report, which will receive some answers in the revised budget, as the Council of State has notified. We've got local and regional politicians into corporate governance, which we actually believe is an important step in this direction. A sample has been set up to look at the whole funding system for the specialist health service, and, in particular, important interaction-related measures have been put in place – today’s proposal has a budget of 50 million. kr to it. So this government is really doing something to get good interaction and to get a specialist health service that anyone anywhere in the country can benefit from, and that can be a good service provider and provide security for people around our vast country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1543	The debate today shows that the hospital reform has actually worked. We have not heard once in this debate that this is the other responsible. In fact, the Storting takes on the responsibility of the Stortinget. The Council of State assumes the responsibilities of the Council of State. Hospital reform has worked. One of the most important things about hospital reform was that it was a responsibility reform. That is what the debate actually shows today. Then, of course, the representative Schjärlaa – with an article here that looks out of bad conscience for what you may not have gotten – can try to show you what you've got. It's an honest thing, you're actually going to take that on. The same party was also against the hospital reform, so it's clear that you're trying to find other things that you can see the positive in. What makes me take the word, is first and foremost linked to, among other things, The representative No Marte Thorkildsen's comments on whether establishing a hospital directorate would move decisions even more away from the population. Then the representative has not considered that the whole point with the directorate and the way to reorganize it is that the ordering unit should be moved into the municipality. It should not be in the directorate; it actually gets closer to the patient. There is a physical distinction between today and today, when regional health enterprises mix the order and delivery units because they are both owned and ordered and are thus given the distribution of bias. I don't think, unfortunately, that the sum that we're giving today is going to stop many of the cuts that are going to happen because of the bad economy. I do not think, unfortunately, that some proposals relating to functional breakdowns, reorganisations and also redundancies will stop, because until that is the sum too small. Furthermore, there is every reason to believe — and fear — that waiting times will increase further. Third quarterly figures for 2006 showed an increase in waiting times and no decrease, so unfortunately we see signs that it can go that way. But we don't know yet, we'll have to wait and see and have some patience. But the Progress Party believes that the sum that is granted today is too small, and I think the Council of State must come back to the Stortinget on later occasions. It's going to be exciting to see what's going on in the revised national budget, precisely because I think they're not going to be able to solve the problems. Furthermore, when you refer to the large increase in patient treatment: yes, it has been an increase, fortunately. It should be lacking only when we see the means at your disposal. I think it was the representative's salary who was involved in the problem with a large deficit, and that the deficits are reprocessed as a result of us treating more patients. When you have to get control of this, and that money is to be saved, then the big question is, what happens?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1558	I can record the thread where the previous speaker released it. I asked in my main speech a question about the characteristics of the government parties in the committee position on the economic situation of health businesses, whether it is believed that that characteristic, i.e. ‘very demanding in more regions and very serious in the two northernmost regions’, will be past when the Stortinget has taken its decision to grant it today, or whether it will still have these significant challenges. I hope that the Council of State will comment on that issue when she gets the floor in a moment. I also hope that the Council of State will then comment on the question I asked her about understanding the tasks of the new permanent national priority Council. I actually asked for the word to comment on a few of the posts in the representative of Thorkildsen that I find remarkable. Firstly, it is not right that the Right has at any time proposed the creation of a new hospital directorate. I have to ask the representative to refer to sources for that. It is completely unknown to me that we have made such a proposal. On the other hand, from Stortinget we have dealt with the hospital reform in its time, and we have maintained that it would be a good principle to separate the order function from the delivery function, and I think that everything that has happened afterwards confirms that it was a correct and sensible position. But to what was most interesting in the contributions of the representative Thorkildsen, she made a strong appeal to the Council of State that the Council of State should take responsibility for a private rehabilitation institution — one of the many private rehabilitation institutions in that country. I think it is extremely gratifying that a representative of the government parties is now beginning to discover what we have discovered a long time ago, namely that reality out there is such that, in the short term, if we are to meet the growing need for habilitation and rehabilitation services, the most sensible thing is to exploit the expertise and capacity built up by many private organisations. If you do that, you'll be able to put in circulation the 600 million. kr, which came out of the sick pay dispute last year and which should have been in circulation for the longest time. You can actually get that full count for immediately, if you're willing to use them there, instead of letting it go the heavyweight, bureaucratic path.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1568	To the question of promoting budgets once a year: I think that is right. But when I got the overview from the different regional health companies around Christmas, i.e. almost at the turn of the year, I saw that the situation was so dramatic, especially in Health North and in Health Mid-Norway, that it would go beyond the patient offer to such an extent that I think almost no one could defend it. At least it was my assessment, and it was the government's assessment. Then we thought it was more important to try to sort it out. That's why we promoted this additional appropriation, so we took the steps we took in relation to Health South-East, and other things that several speakers have been involved in. But for the future, I just want to say, this government will usually have that we promote our budget once a year. There is no need for regional health businesses to try to plan for anything else. Then there must be a crisis somewhere in order for one to deviate from it. Then I would also say that although it is incredibly positive – and most positive, as opposed to what is written in newspapers and we hear about on radio and on TV – it is of course so that there are still challenges. The representative Nesvik mentioned one example that I do not know in detail, but there are clearly such examples. And of course, we have to try to do something about that. With regard to the question of the further follow-up of Health South-East – representatives from Bohemia, the Kjellaa and others have been concerned about why we believe this is a completely correct approach – I am absolutely sure that we will get better patient treatment and better use of resources, both professionally and economically. It will benefit patients, not only in this part of the country, but throughout the country. I just mean that the aggregation of Health South and Health East is basically a decentralization model, because that's the way we can also be with and strengthen the local hospitals, that we're doing some grips where it actually hurts at least, but where we see it is absolutely necessary. I think everyone's seen it, really from day one, when the Berlin Wall came in the middle of Oslo. Then I can just make sure that we are going to have a high pace in this matter – not just going to, we have it – and the Stortinget will see that we will also deliver very quickly in the further process, so that it is up and standing by 1 July, because it is crucial. I also want to say to representatives who have said something in relation to the employee organisations – I think it was the representative Hareide who mentioned it: they were informed in advance. They were included on advice. That some of them have a different opinion from what the Government stands for in this matter is correct. But that doesn't mean they haven't been in the processes that have actually been. I see that the time is running out, but with regard to the issue of the situation in the hospital sector, I believe that through the allocation I assume the Storting will join in during the day, we have taken off for the most dramatic cuts that it was up to if we hadn't done so. It is also quite right that there must still be some changes during this year, but there are changes that we believe are manageable within the system we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1581	The representative of the Skjærlaa thought it was unnecessary to make a big point that the Center Party disagreed in the merger of Health South and Health East. My point -- it wasn't a big point -- was just to point out what the Centre Party's vision is. Otherwise, I thought it was very honest for the Socialist Left to express its view from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1589	First, I would like to start with a complaint to the representative, Mr Inge Wohnung, who pointed out that the Right did not participate in this proposal. I'm sorry. I have got the wrong information. In return, I would like to apologize from the representative for his persistently expressing a huge surprise that SV distinguishes between commercial and non-profit actors in the field of health, even now. Actually, we've always done that. Our attitude is that the ideal non-profit organisations operating as a complement to the public should still have a good and large leeway – because we believe that they are an important supplement, also a corrective one, are unbureaucratic and have a long experience and speed within the healthcare system. This is true in the care of drug users, and it is true in the somatic area as well. As far as rehabilitation is concerned, these are institutions and organisations that have been offering very good deals for many years, and which we are now concerned about not getting as good and big a leeway as we think they should have. That's what I've been talking about. I think the representative for the payroll should notice it once and for all, and stop spreading uncertainty about whether SV wants such a development. Because we're actually doing that. To the representative Harald Tom Nesvik, I would like to say that the father of the order-executor model, as we have seen it evolve some places, is that it leads to the need for increased bureaucracy and administration at the expense of direct user-oriented and patient-oriented work. It's become more rigid in many places. There has been less flexibility and, in turn, there has been a growing need for coordination. And I think it's not for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1596	The representative of Inge Wohnung has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1599	Two things: I still hope that the Council of State will come back with an answer to my question regarding the Council of Priorities and the understanding of the mandate. So to the representative of Thorkildsen: I don't know if it's so easy to complain that you're surprised, but the institution that Thorkildsen himself used as an example is a reinspicken commercial institution – actually – that's not run by any non-profit, I'm familiar with. But it just illustrates what was my point in the exchange of lines with the Council of State, that this distinction between so-called ideal and so-called commercial is a purely fictional, ideologically based distinction, which is not feasible in the terrain. Then it must be allowed to express joy at the fact that the Socialist Left in reality is occupied by the users, even though in the world of ideology they still doubt a notional distinction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1606	On the issue of the new National Council on Wage: I believe that a very important prerequisite for making this work in practice in hospitals is that the top management of regional health companies is in this Council. That's why I also have so much faith that we can succeed this time, otherwise together with professionals and representatives of user organisations. They will give advice to me – to us – but the Council can, for example, also decide whether new professional guidance should be developed by introducing a new treatment method. In this case, the Directorate for Social Affairs and Health will be given a role in the preparation of the type of professional guidance, which professionals of course have to feel more strongly about. Then I would also like to comment on the escalating plan for the drug field, which has been discussed by several people. I can just assure the Storting that it's right around the corner. It's not very long until it comes. I'm as impatient as several of the speakers here have been in relation to that we have to do even more for some of the weakest among us. In addition to spending the money that is now, hopefully, granted, in a sensible way, more concrete measures, because it is unworthy when people who obviously have major drug problems do not get the help they need, do not get the detoxification they need, and do not get the treatment or after-care that many people also need. In the case of waiting times, many of which have also been the subject of the debate, they have now stabilised in about 70 days. There is a variation between health regions – we have to take this very seriously – but waiting times have become more similar in different health regions. So it's going to go forward. And significantly more people now receive treatment than they did a very short time ago. I also believe, with regard to the question from the representative Hareide, that the hospital reform has been essentially very successful, although, of course, there are things that should be further improved. Ventetida has fallen, and the quality has increased by our centralization, not in the sense that everything is done in Oslo, but that fewer hospitals are now performing e.g. cancer operations. This means that more people live longer, survival has increased, and quality of life has increased. So we have a long way to go, and we're going to try to get even better in those areas where we're not quite in the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1617	The representative Rune J. Skjæla has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1620	No pay talked about company form, etc. when he spoke about commercial/non-commercial institutions. That's completely wrong. You can actually have an AS driven by ideals, where you don't collect dividends, but you plough any profit into the business – without taking it as a profit. This is, of course, something that regional health companies must ensure when concluding agreements with non-public hospitals. Haraldsplatz Diakonale Hospital in Bergen is owned by Bergen Diakonisse home. It's an ideal hospital. The hospital is organized as an AS, but they don't pay any dividends – it's in the statutes that you shouldn't. But Bergen Surgical Hospital at Nesttun, with which the regional health company has also concluded agreements, is not organised that way. It's an AS where you can take dividends. There are many examples, for example: The Sleep Clinic of Twinnereim, where one has collected millions of public health bills in dividends. I hope Inge Wohnning understands this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1625	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 2697]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1638	The size goes to voting in case No. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1646	During the debate Robert Eriksson put forward nine proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e1772	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2007 shall be amended as follows: Cape VerdeCronsExpenditure:732Regional health companies71Aids to Health East RHF, may be transferred, increased by 273 600 000 from NOK 18 610 280 000 to NOK 18 883 88000072Aids to Health South RHF, may be transferred, increased by 149 100 000 from NOK 10 372 101000 to NOK 10 521 201 00073Aids to Health West RHF, may be transferred, increased by 236 700000 from NOK 9 691 889 000 to NOK 9 9 9 928 589 00074Aids to Health Middle Norway RHF, may be transferred, increased by 374 300000 from NOK 7 012 605000 to NOK 7 386 90500075Aids to Health North RHF, may be transferred, increased by 312 300 000 from NOK 6 119 485000 to NOK 6 431 785000’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-23.ana.ud324e2194	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
