ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e41	The representative, Kenneth Svendsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e44	I am pleased to make suggestions on behalf of Robert Eriksson, Gjermund Hagesetter and myself that employees over 67 years of age are paid full-earned pension regardless of how much they have in labour income.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e49	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e63	The annual reports refer to the year 2005, which is referred to as the ‘2005 Year of Personal Protection’, among others. having regard to the fact that 25 years have elapsed since the establishment of the personal and data protection legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e70	In 2005, extensive studies were carried out on the knowledge and attitudes of the population and businesses to privacy. The survey shows that the population has particular confidence in the processing of personal data by public bodies. This is in isolation positive. Both the public and private sectors must aim at a high level of confidence in the proper processing of personal data in the future. It is, as I said, positive that the population has great confidence in the processing of personal data, but if we look at the degree of compliance with the law, there is reason to ask questions about those who process the personal data has made this trust worthwhile. It appears that there may be a misunderstanding between the level of confidence of the population and the level of compliance with the data protection law, both in public and private actors. Although the population survey shows that employees and employers largely agree on what is acceptable on-the-job monitoring, it is important for the Government to provide a clearer regulation of legislation and regulations in this area. The use and commercialisation of online services with the possibility of charging for services over the network leads to a need to identify the payer. This is an important and predictable development of digital services, but it also confronts us with important challenges in the area of privacy. Among other things, identity theft seems to be an increasing problem. This may be due to the fact that it is becoming increasingly common to have to provide personal data by, among other things. purchases of services. In the extension of the increasing use of personal data in the purchase of services, anonymous alternatives also disappear. The Committee has pointed out in its opinion the objections of the Data Protection Authority to fully automated toll stations where no anonymous alternatives exist. It is difficult to see that there are well-founded and pressing reasons which speak of exemption from the right to anonymous movement in relation to toll stations. There is a need for a broad, cross-sectoral debate on the possibility of anonymous activity and the Committee supports an analysis of various measures to ensure anonymous solutions, as proposed by the Government in St.meld. No 17 for 2006–2007, An information society for all. The government has announced that a parallel to this work will put in place other necessary measures, including: focus on the right to be anonymous and the development of solutions that ensure such an right to anonymity, where appropriate and identification is not necessary. The government will also have measures to stimulate the use and exploitation of technologies in other ways that strengthen privacy, including: using so-called privacy-promoting technologies. Government alerts in St.meld. No 17 that it will set up a data protection commission. The Data Protection Commission shall address the vulnerable situation of privacy in relation to technological developments and make proposals to strengthen the position of privacy. Of course, there is reason to pay tribute to Lars Sponheim and Odd Einar Dørum for the initiative of a Data Protection Commission through a proposal for a representative. It is also important that we now have a government that takes privacy issues seriously and that is liberal enough to listen to good suggestions from others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e86	First, congratulations on the day, especially on all the girls! Annual reports are not the usual invitation to the most exciting political debates. Typically, annual reports are used to confirm their own political excellence or to blame the pastors. The number of supervision in recent years has increased inversely with deregulation and depoliticisation. It started already at the end of the 1970s and speeded into the 1980s and 1990s. It is obvious that even the most thoughtful liberals do not believe in Adam Smith’s ‘hidden hand’. There is a need for an open hand that can control and fix where the hidden hand does not work. In contrast to some other supervision, the Data Protection Authority is not a direct result of the deregulation process, but as much as a consequence of globalisation and not least of the new technologies, which have opened up completely new ways of recording, collecting and storing data and information. Data protection was 25 years old in 2005. There's a reason to give praise for the way they marked the anniversary. The From Trust to Control book is a reason for reading; it is a book to get wise. The book should be mandatory reading for all those who are concerned with human rights, privacy and democracy. Every day through camera surveillance and electronic tracks, we are exposed to a system where Storebror sees you. Many of us experience this as unpleasant. It's uncomfortable because it's perceived as a threat to our integrity and the private sphere. The Committee was in the United States last week. I do not know how many times during a day we were checked and inspected. I don't know how many times in a day we had to identify ourselves to confirm who we were. Control and camera surveillance have increased sharply in the last five to six years, including in our society. I also record that the majority of Norwegian people accept increased camera surveillance. The reason is the fight against crime and the fear of terror. It is a crossroads of thought that the terrible situation we had in the United States on 11 September 2001 was not prevented despite the extensive monitoring and control that was in front of us. This development is frightening, and it is unpleasant for several reasons. It is unpleasant because we are all perceived as potential terrorists, and it is a threat to democracy. It's uncomfortable because some of us experience this as a threat to our integrity, and it's boring on our private sphere. Liberal democracy requires respect for privacy. If we don't have a private sphere, we don't have an area where we can try to shape our own opinions and opinions. Privacy is the very lifeblood of democracy. One of the most obvious features of totalitarian society is the invasion of the private sphere. The totalitarian societies we know from our own close history did not have the same sophisticated ways of controlling, checking and indicating what today's technology opens up. It is all the more daunting to think about what can happen if democratic control is weakened and all information and collected data comes into the hands of people who have other goals for social development. My point of this statement is to stress that there is a limit to the use of undemocratic instruments, instruments belonging to other types of society by democracy in the defence of democracy. If we cross that line, the road is open to totalitarian society. I don't know where that boundary goes, and where we stand in relation to that boundary today, but it's important that we keep having a debate and are concerned about this to see where the border goes, and discuss and are awake and ringing about democracy. We must also keep the debate on privacy, democracy and human rights alive. That's why I think it's good that we get a data protection commission that's going to help keep the debate alive and keep the debate going. But it is primarily our task as politicians to keep the debate on privacy, human rights and democracy alive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e112	Strong privacy has been an important issue for the Left for many years. Privacy is an important part of individual freedom, and without a conscious privacy policy, we can end up in a totally monitored society. I am therefore pleased that an overall committee records that an increased requirement to provide personal data in more and more cases leads to the disappearance of anonymous alternatives. An overall committee cannot see that there are well-founded and pressing reasons which speak to derogate from the right to anonymous movement. We in the Left are also pleased that the Committee believes that there is a need for a wide-ranging debate on the right to anonymous movement. I want to address a particular topic that also has to do with anonymity, and that's data storage. I am promoting today a proposal relating to the EU Data Storage Directive. This Directive could have a major impact on the fundamental right to anonymous communication. The left is concerned that any implementation of this Directive will interfere with both privacy and freedom of expression. The Data Storage Directive was adopted on 15 March last year. This Directive requires telephone and Internet providers to store traffic and location data for at least six months and a maximum of two years. When privacy is set up for other benefits, it usually turns out that privacy needs to give up. In the vast majority of cases where privacy is being pushed, one has good intentions. This also applies to the Data Storage Directive. The aim of the Directive is to combat crime and terrorism. Work on the directive started after the cruel bombings in Madrid and London. The left realizes that it is more difficult to be privacy-friendly in practice than in theory. We also realise that privacy sometimes has to give way to the fight against terrorism and organised crime. However, we believe that the Data Storage Directive goes far too far in interfering with the freedom of ordinary citizens. In this context, I would like to suggest that, in implementing the Data Storage Directive, the Government must ensure that the information is not stored for more than six months. With this I take up my own proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e127	The representative Vera Lightcloth has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e130	Sixteen years ago, a larger data protection survey was carried out. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration was behind it, and it was the Transport Economic Institute that carried out the investigation. It showed that very few of us are thinking in particular about collecting information about us, or we actually don't care about it. There is great confidence that the processing of personal data in public bodies and private enterprises is actually going on in a proper way. At the same time, there is little understanding that each individual must take an active responsibility when it comes to taking care of his own and others' privacy. It may not be so strange. It is difficult for individuals to see the risks involved in collecting and misusing personal data. The privacy investigation demonstrated that most of us need to become more aware of, and get better knowledge about, electronic tracks and privacy. People simply need more help to take responsibility for their own privacy and show respect for others. This is why the Government has increased the budget of the Data Protection Agency by 2 million. to communication measures to increase awareness and disseminate knowledge of privacy, rights and obligations. When the Data Protection Authority received these funds, I gave a signal that I expected them to give priority to the work directed at children and young people. In cooperation with the Directorate-General for Education and the Council of Technology, the Data Protection Authority has developed its own website on «dubedeur.no». The campaign I was with and launched on 29 January this year. It's targeted at 15-16-year-olds, so the motto is you decide. Material was sent to all youth schools and secondary schools in the country, and 60,000 brochures, posters were printed – the campaign site is established, films are made, etc. Already after one month, the data protection system is empty, so it has to print up new material. The school feedback is that there is a great need for information about the theme. The bullets did their homework not only to the target group we had fed it into, but actually to the entire youth ball and all the classes in the secondary school. Some schools have ordered up to 20 sets of classes. It says something about an enormous need to get campaigns in this area. The material takes on serious privacy issues, but does so in a humorous way, so that young people can recognise themselves in the issues. Not least, young people themselves have been involved in designing the material. We made a draft, and then we had a partnership with a 10th grade at a youth school at Lillestrøm, which was involved and actively helped to get the language right, that we got the right copies. Because it's not useful to come up with a top-down brochure from the country in this area. It must take place in order for the young people themselves to be involved and take an active responsibility for their own privacy. On the other hand, the investigation showed that the companies themselves are too poor to pay attention to their responsibility for privacy, so they were 2 million. kr would go both to children and young people, mainly, and to a campaign directed against the enterprises. This has also been developed now by the Data Protection Authority, comprehensive guidance material on internal control and information security in the enterprises, which is now available on the website of the Data Protection Authority, as well as on some active information campaigns. The efforts to create more data protection have also been intensified throughout 2006. This has been a significant increase in the number of deaths compared to the 19 mentioned in the Storing Message. As of 26 February this year, a total of 64 privacy laws have been adopted. Several of these represent several activities, so that the number of enterprises with privacy laws is significantly higher. There is every reason to praise the Data Protection Authority also for this strong commitment in the area that has produced results. The privacy investigation showed that people who have been subjected to privacy measures are more sceptical than others about how privacy is protected. Cases of so-called identity stealers underline the seriousness of this. The debate that has taken place in the media over the last few weeks shows that even information that is required may fall on others if the security or restraints of those with the information are not good enough. The thing is, I think I've been a thinker for a lot of people and I'm a good example of the fact that just storing personal data can be a threat to privacy, especially given that it's increasingly possible to identify people in connection with different payment solutions. For this reason, it is important to have a debate on privacy challenges, including: the right to remain anonymous, to which several of the representatives have been subject in their contributions. Where, for various reasons, information should or must be stored, it will be important to take a closer look at the different types of access restrictions or the logging of those who have been inside and viewed the information. This and several other important privacy challenges are mentioned in St.meld. No 17, An information society for all, which was also referred to by the case leader. As you know, I am in the process of creating a commission, including: with a background in a suggestion from the Left here in Stortingen last year. One of my favorites for the Commission is to help raise awareness about the challenges of privacy and to make a holistic assessment of privacy challenges, especially in the light of technological developments. The work of the Commission will provide us with a good basis for considering concrete proposals on how to protect privacy, whether it is a question of using new technologies or how the current instrument can be used even more effectively. So finally, just two words about the proposal from the Left, which is presented in the Chamber today. There is no doubt that the Data Storage Directive presents us with challenges. The intention of the proposal is very important that we carry with us in the assessment of the directive. The government is running the current work. I just want to say that we take these signals and this hold of the directive – which one might disagree with or disagree with – with us in the work that the Government is now doing with the finalisation of, and then we get back to the Storting in our own way and report it back.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e156	From the Right-hand side, I would just like to stress that we are attending to the work of the Privacy Commission. This is an important field, and it won't be less important in the future. In this way I am very much in agreement with much of what Rolf Reikvam said in his post. When I asked for the floor, it is because the Left has put forward a proposal here in the Chamber today. With reference to the Council of State's response, we think it would be right to come back to Stortingen with this after a treatment in the Government – and in a major context – and we would recommend the Left to turn this proposal into a transmission proposal. If we are to vote on it today, we will have to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e163	It's for the Left's proposal. I think this is a good proposal. Let me say that in that way that I agree with the intention, and I also agree with the wording of the proposal for my own part. But the situation now — this case is being dealt with in the Ministry of Justice — would make it wise to turn this into a transmission proposal. I sincerely hope that the Left will do so, for it would be terribly stupid, both from my point of view and obviously also from the point of view of others, if this were to be voted down here in the hall. If, on the basis of what has been said and which will hopefully be said during the debate, it becomes a transmission proposal, which we send to the ministry, it should be a fairly clear signal to the ministry as to how they should deal with this directive. So my appeal to the Left is that they make this proposal a transmission proposal. As I said, I very much agree with the intention – what is in the proposal. It follows as a natural consequence of what I said in my main post.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e172	I would first like to stress that I fully agree with what SV's main speaker, Rolf Reikvam, has said, but I have some additional comments. After all, we live in a time when privacy has scarcely been in a worse condition. I think that was quite well illustrated some time ago when former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik was going to Ålesund – I think it was – with the plane to launch his book “A Life of Stress”. He was stopped in the check and was seized by a bottle of shaving foam, which is said to be bombing. I think that someone has experienced it in part absurdly every once in a while when we go through checks at airports, where everyone and everyone now appears as possible attackers who need to be inspected, so that you soon begin to sense that the various guards are wearing rubber gloves to also check the body's cavity. It is clear that when you compare what is about to happen at airports before flying, and that we can go on board the Danish boat, which I hope we will still be able to do, and take with us what we might want in the quantities we want – for that matter also the most intricate weapons, and explosives, if you want to – are part of the security measures we face today, pure absurdities in a time marked by a kind of collective paranoia. We must dare to take a debate on it, so that the security measures are proportionate to the danger we are actually facing, or are in the process of creating an impression that God and everyone are being subjected to. Because at some level, linked to the resource use we're facing, this has to reach an outer limit. It may not be such that one quarter of Norwegian employees are ultimately employed by Securitas or other security companies. If you talk to Norwegian pilots, they point out that some of these security measures work against their purpose. They may help to make it more unsafe, and not more safe, to fly, simply because the communication to be between employees of the airlines no longer goes normally and with open doors, if anything unexpected happens. I believe that the Data Protection Agency as a body has a key role to play by pointing out some aspects of social development that are extremely unfortunate. That is why we need to give the Data Protection Authority the possibility of a greater impact on their objections than they have today. Now it's like using this one day to present the annual report and pointing out that it's important to the Data Protection Agency, on which we use the 364 other days of the year to do exactly the opposite of the remarks the Data Protection Authority had to have on warnings about what kind of society we're going to go into. Much of this is determined beyond the borders of the country in such a way that we have little we should have said. It is important that we have national leadership that makes it a balance between the measures being implemented and what actually makes sense from the real danger we have to face.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e185	The left wants us to vote on this proposal today. We fear that the directive will be implemented without one thinking carefully through the privacy implications. The Left therefore wants the Storting to give a clear signal that the scope of the directive must be as small as possible. We have therefore proposed that the minimum retention period of the Directive be the maximum legal storage period in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e191	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2207]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e207	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e216	The Committee has examined a proposal from the Progress Party on enhanced requirements for auditor independence in the municipal sector. The Progress Party wishes to incorporate municipal audit into the statutory act. I expect the rapporteurs in the debate to explain their views. The majority in the committee, the government parties together with the Christian People's Party, do not agree with the proposal. All parties agree that auditors should be highly qualified persons for whom strict requirements must be met, both in the private, state and municipal sectors. The government audit mission includes, in addition to the accounting audit, administrative audit to determine whether the operation is cost-effective and to determine the level of achievement of the target. The majority of the committee, the government parties together with the Christian People's Party, cannot see that today's requirements for audit and auditors in private companies are higher than in the public sector. I believe that this could be a basis for claiming that the requirements are actually stricter, as the public sector audit mission, in addition to accounting audits, also includes administrative audit. The provisions of the municipal law on auditing are largely in line with the corresponding provisions of the statutory act, with the exception of one point: employment. The statutory auditor shall require that the statutory auditor cannot be employed by the statutory auditor. Today, local government is free to decide whether the municipalities should have their own audit, participate in an inter-municipal audit cooperation or enter into agreements with an external auditor. This practice will end with the Progress Party. A few municipalities have auditors employed in the municipality. For the vast majority of municipalities, the audit of own audit units is carried out in inter-municipal cooperation. I believe that this can be seen as having great confidence in the functioning of the audit system. The municipal law contains provisions which impose strict requirements on the independence of the auditor. The independence requirement is linked to all audit work carried out for the municipality and relates to the actual independence of the auditor and to conditions that may impair the confidence of the environment in the conduct of the audit. If the statutory provisions on independence of auditors are to apply to municipal audit, this would mean that an auditor cannot be employed in a municipality or in an audit firm in which the municipality is a partner. In practice, the proposal of the Progress Party will mean that there will be an obligation for the outsourcing of the audit in municipalities and county municipalities. Municipally owned audit firms will not be able to participate in such competition. This would be unfortunate in relation to the competence built up in municipally owned audit firms. In 2003, changes were made to the provisions of the municipal law on auditing. The changes led, inter alia, to: to open up the competition for the launch of municipal audits. Few municipalities have so far chosen to launch the audit. I think it is right to look at the experience of how the municipal audit system works after it was opened up to competition, before an assessor reviews changes in the legislation. The main argument that the Progress Party will introduce reinforced requirements is that they do not want municipalities to have their own auditors. The background is, among other things, recent evidence of corruption, including: The scandal in Bærum. I would like to underline the importance of a high ethical standard for the reputation of municipalities. One case of corruption is one case too much. Nevertheless, a nuanced debate is needed. Corruption is to be combated, but I do not think we are doing it through the proposal for the Progress Party, which we are dealing with today. I would like to remind you that there have been scandals in private companies too – despite the fact that according to the Progress Party, they have a stricter code to deal with. We have experienced tax fraud, tricking with VAT and crimes with hired black labour. Unfortunately, this has been part of the reality of the construction industry. So it's not the law that's wrong; it's the follow-up to the law that hasn't been enough. Finally, I would like to recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e242	Today, we have a proposal from the representatives of Per-Willy Amundsen, Åge Starheim and Ib Thomsen on strengthened requirements for the independence of auditors in the municipal sector. The Working Party agrees with the proposers that auditors should be highly qualified persons for whom strict requirements must be met, as is the case in the private, state and municipal sectors. The government audit mission includes, in addition to the accounting audit, administrative audit to determine whether operations are cost-effective. I cannot see the proposal as different from the fact that the obvious intention of the Progress Party is to privatise the audit and force the municipalities to privatise their municipal owned audit firms. We are strongly opposed to this in the Labour Party. Substantial changes were made to the provisions of the municipal law on revision in 2003. The amendments entered into force on 1 July 2004. The main change involved opening up the competitive opening of municipal audits. Few municipalities have so far chosen to launch the audit. This indicates that municipalities have great confidence in the proper functioning of the audit system. I would also like to remind you that there are strict requirements for the independence of auditors in the provisions of the municipal law. The proposal will mean that an auditor cannot be employed in a municipality or in an audit firm in which the municipality is a partner. This will in practice mean that there will be an obligation for the outsourcing of audits in municipalities and county municipalities. The fact that municipally owned audit firms will not be able to participate in such competition will prevent the best possible use of the competences built up in municipally owned companies. The Labour Party agrees with the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs that it is right to gain experience in the functioning of the municipal audit system after it has been opened up to competition, before considering changes in the legislation. On this basis, the majority have concluded that the proposal should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e261	The savings banks had former auditors who were employed in the company the audited, but this was changed about 20 years ago because an independent and neutral audit of the savings banks was to be carried out. At that time a NOU – NOW 1986:5 – was written where it said: ‘The appointment of an auditor may mean that the auditor becomes dependent on the institution. It is therefore important to select an auditor.’» Already 20 years ago, this problem was raised here in Stortinget. Political and business decisions are rarely better than the decision-making basis on which they are based. Even an excellent leader or politician could make crazy decisions if the facts are not right. The role of auditors in society is to ensure that the information we have is as good as possible. It should apply in both the private, state and municipal sectors. In the proposal, there are more areas than the independence of the auditor that make it appropriate to find a solution within the framework of the law on auditors. The Progress Party sees the need for private and municipal sector auditing to be in line with the same accounting auditing standards and for administrative auditing standards to be set in the same way. It may seem that today's audit works badly, not least because the audit is too close to politicians. It is the many corruption cases that have led the Progress Party to go in favour of a change in the audit in the municipalities, so that people further away from the municipalities are to monitor the municipal bodies. In Bærum, the county tax office discovered the case, not the municipal audit. The Progress Party believes that internal control is not working well enough in many municipalities. Although the auditor can experience himself as independent and tell us about things that should be examined in more detail, it is not certain that the people responsible in the municipality take the notification seriously. The idea is to lift the audit up and out of the individual municipality. I think the time is ripe, given the matter – and other matters – that have been mentioned in the media lately, which shows that the internal audit does not meet the objectives of the municipalities. I think Stortinget must consider new arrangements. The size has meant that all private companies should have an independent auditor in order to avoid any interaction between the company and the audit. But it surprises me that the government parties do not have the same assessment in terms of municipalities to avoid a mix-up and some unfortunate situations. Kosmo in the Riksrevision is not at all opposed to taking over the audit for the municipalities. It has to be seen that there may be some challenges with such a mix – with a municipal audit for closeness in small municipalities. It is difficult in some municipalities, although the audit is organised in a regional cooperation, when your salary is paid by the person you are reviewing. None of the reviewers should have an influence on priorities. Auditors are persons with a high level of competence who are subject to strict requirements. In general, the requirements for audit and auditors of private companies are higher than those of the public sector. In isolation, this should mean that public sector audit requirements should be stricter than private sector audit requirements because Community funds are managed. Minister of Local and Regional Affairs Haga confirmed in an answer to written questions from me that according to what the Ministry had an overview of per cent. October 2006, only 20 Norwegian municipalities have opted for an external audit of accounts. The Minister of Local and Regional Affairs also confirms that the Ministry does not have an overview of how much Norwegian municipalities spend each year on auditing or the extent to which Norwegian municipalities use external administrative audit. The proposers regard cooperation between several municipalities as a step in the right direction, but believe that the distinction between the order and the execution role should be clearer. It's amazing that the majority is not more solution-oriented to avoid the many issues of corruption and corruption that we see in Kommune-Norway at these times. There is something the Progress Party regrets very much.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e292	The President expects the representative to address his proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e295	Yes
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e300	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal to which it refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e303	I think the proposers here address a significant issue that is absolutely necessary to ask questions about: if today's legislation relating to the independence of the municipal audit is strong enough. It is a guiding principle in the private sector that the auditor should not have a job with the company for which he is auditing. Yes, you go even further than that – you also demand that the audit firm should not be entrusted with any other tasks for this company. It was an intensification that came after the major scandals in the United States: although the auditor was outside the private company, the dependence on the company had become too great, by selling other types of assignments to the company. This was thereby inculcated. There is reason to ask questions – as the proposers do – about today’s legislation, which fully facilitates the ability of municipal sector auditors to be employed in the municipality, thus having both audit assignments and other tasks for the municipality. We believe that there is an absolute need for a review of the law to ensure greater independence between the municipal audit and the municipalities being audited. Today, however, we are not prepared to go directly in favour of the proposals of the Progress Party, because the proposal also has a number of other consequences. Among other things, it explicitly states in the proposal that municipalities should be made subject to accounting obligations under the Accounting Act, which would have significant consequences with regard to depreciation rules. The major challenges we have faced in the health sector in this regard give a small picture of how big a challenge we would have if we were to carry this out overnight in the municipal sector. That's why the Right with the Left here promotes a separate proposal, which I'm a little surprised that other parties, too, can not participate in supporting. I think there is reason to recognise the issue of the Progress Party in this area – and not just, as the Labour Party's representative here did, try to find hidden motives such as privatisation behind the proposals of the Progress Party. I do not perceive in any way that this is the reason of the Progress Party, but that they are concerned about the dependence that today's municipal audit has on the municipalities. This is also the reason why the Right cannot be included in the majority comment stating that ‘you cannot see that the current requirements for audit and auditors in private companies are higher than in the public sector’. It must be clear that they are – with the requirements of private sector independence in relation to the public sector. It should then be said that the public sector has in addition the control selection system, an additional mechanism that strengthens confidence in audit and control in the public sector – in addition to the audit requirements. However, in our view, it is not sufficient to establish that today’s public sector system is reassuring and that there is no need for a review, precisely to ensure greater independence for — and therefore greater trust in — the audit. As the representative of the Progress Party said, it is essential for a sector in which a user of Community funds can have confidence that these resources are properly used. We've recently seen too many examples of today's system not working. Therefore, I am surprised that the majority so cashy chooses to reject this issue, instead of acknowledging that the Progress Party here actually addresses a significant question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e322	The President assumes that the representative Bent Höie will make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e325	I'm addressing proposal No. 2, from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e333	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e336	It's time for recycled progress party proposals – we've got some of them lately. We can approach this matter in two ways. We can approach in principle and say that in principle we take a distance. We do not like the fact that the auditor is employed in a municipality that he should also review. It could be the principle approach. Initially, I have a great sense of principle to approach this in this way. Then you can choose the pragmatic approach, as the Progress Party does. It is a purely pragmatic approach in which they present the law of auditors as the ideal. Ib Thomsen says today's audit works badly, it doesn't work well enough in many municipalities, etc. Then he frames up the pragmatic approach. But this isn't the actual ratio. We have a few examples – we should regret them, and we think they are unfortunate – where the audit obviously has not worked well enough. The examples we have are the municipalities of Oslo and Bærum, where the audit probably – I say probably – has not done a good enough job. But if we take care of the private sector – the ideal of the Progress Party – with auditors under the law on auditors, it is not a good example for the municipalities. There's somewhere where there's been corruption, and where the audit hasn't worked, it's in the private sector. They obviously didn't manage to do their job there, because that's where you've had the big corruption issues, the big losses, etc. The ideal for the Progress Party is therefore the statutory auditor and the private sector, which obviously does not work – and which obviously works worse than is the case for the municipal sector. And then you can keep discussing the principle. And we're going to do that -- we're going to take that debate all the time. Is it a lucky situation that the municipalities employ? What is happening now is that most municipalities establish intermunicipal audit firms. The municipalities are the owners of these companies, so you can get a mix that's unfortunate. But there's nothing about today's system that indicates that it's not working well for municipal audit. So there are a few exceptions, a few examples, but compared to what happens in the private sector, today's system works great. On the basis of a pragmatic approach, I conclude that the system is working well – there is no need to support the recycled proposal of the Progress Party. That's why we reject it. On a principle basis, we can continue to discuss it – and possibly make a decision on a purely principleal basis. But I do not think there is any basis for changing today's system either, precisely because the municipalities set up intercommunal companies to be responsible for the audit. I have faith that this system works – everything indicates that we all have reason to believe in this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e355	The intention of the Progress Party’s proposal on enhanced requirements for auditor independence is good. Although the local authorities can experience themselves as independent and say something that needs to be examined, it is not obvious that the local authorities are taking the point seriously. Unfortunately, we have fresh examples of this, both in small and large municipalities and in intercommunal companies. But how we should do this in practice is not given with the proposals of the Progress Party. Firstly, it is important that the municipalities themselves are responsible for their own operations. It is in everyone's interest that the municipalities use their own housing in the best possible way. In particular, it concerns citizens – taxpayers. However, audit and control of the administration is not – and should not be – the only control of the activities of the municipality. The elected local government body, as well as the Presidency, and not least the control committee, have a very important task here. Therefore, we should also look at the conditions of the control committees, consider strengthening their ability to exercise effective control and take initiatives for consultations and reviews. We have delegated a responsibility and a trust, and then we also have to delegate the responsibility to solve the problem. Changes were made to the provisions of the municipal law on revision in 2003. The changes led, inter alia, to: to open up the competition for the launch of municipal audits. Few municipalities have so far chosen to launch the audit. For the vast majority of municipalities, the audit of their own audit units is carried out in inter-municipal cooperation, while a few municipalities still employ auditors in the municipality. The left agrees that it is right to gain experience in the functioning of the municipal audit system after it has been opened up to competition before considering new regulatory changes. A central question at the proposal of the Progress Party is the capacity of audit firms when one in practice omits all those who have been employed in the municipal audit. If the option is actually to transfer the task to the Riksrevision, the Left is very skeptical to it. In addition to the fact that it will hardly reveal any more mishaps, it would seem very centralizing to further remove responsibility from the elected and local administrations. Transparency International Norway wants to take the audit from the municipalities. Their option is to establish a national municipal audit. This is an interesting proposal that it might be worth discussing further. But I would remind you that this is actually possible already with today's legislation if all the municipalities gather on such a proposal. Such a proposal will certainly create debate in the municipalities – a debate worth it in itself. Local self-government also means that you look at how a person controls himself, and that is a good debate for local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e370	The government has great faith in the municipalities. We think they are important – as the democratic arena, as a service provider and as a community developer. That is exactly why we are so concerned that everyone must have confidence in the municipalities. It is sad that we have had some unfortunate incidents in the municipal sector in those days. That's also why I have set up my own ethics committee, and I have carried out a full review of the law and legislation that has to do with ethical behaviour. Municipalities and county councils today have three alternative ways of resolving the audit obligation: by recruiting auditors/revisors in the municipality, through inter-municipal cooperation or with other – read private – auditor. This is in line with the principle of municipal maritime governance, and it was established when it was opened up in 2003 for municipalities to launch the audit. Access to the competitive environment implies an option. It was a premise for this amendment that the municipalities should be able to choose to keep also the old, day-old, employee-accounting scheme. Most municipalities currently have an intercommunal audit scheme. As has been mentioned here, the municipal law provisions on audit are largely in line with the corresponding provisions of the statutory audit act, with the exception of one point – employment. The statutory auditor shall require that the statutory auditor cannot be employed by the statutory auditor or by an audit entity owned by the statutory auditor. The introduction of the statutory independence requirement would mean that municipalities could not have auditors employed in the municipality or be audited by inter-municipal audit entities owned by them. An effect of the proposal in Document No 8:13 is that this freedom of choice is gone. In reality, it means the establishment of a system of compulsory contingencies. The audit scheme selected by over 90 pst. by the municipalities, would then have to be terminated. I think it is wise to await the ongoing research and evaluation of the system of competitive review. As of today, I see no reason for today's practice to change, but we shall keep an eye on these matters in the future. I will not rule out that it may be necessary to consider issues related to the role and independence of the auditor at a later stage. It must be taken into account that non-employment conditions have a significant impact on independence. Employment does not automatically involve a sub-scheme or dependency relationship. The important thing is that the person to be audited cannot influence the choice of the auditor, the auditor’s framework conditions and the content and reporting of the audit. An auditor employed in the municipality is not subordinate to the head of administration, if he receives a salary from the municipality. The auditor acts on behalf of the local authority and the control committee. Nor is it obvious that a municipal auditor would be less critical of one of the municipality’s activities than a private auditor, who has been commissioned as a market actor. Summary: I think it is important to gain experience in how the audit system we now have works, before any changes in the legislation are assessed. If it turns out that the municipal audit system we have today does not give enough independence, I will certainly come back to the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e392	I perceive that the Government and the majority parties do not see the seriousness and the challenges the municipalities have, so I have some questions for the Council of State. Why does the Council of State not want to impose equally stringent requirements on independence in municipalities, and may it also see whether there are different ways of doing this task at this time? The second question I have is that Kosmo believes that the Riksrevision should take over all the audit for the municipalities, i.e. that it should take place at a state level. What does the Council of State think is the motive for that? Is it because this ensures independence in the audit of the municipalities, or because the Riksrevision has free capacity to deal with these things?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e401	I do not think there is any doubt that my post revealed that the government is taking questions relating to the independence of the auditors very seriously. This is part of the big complex that connects with how we're going to avoid scandals of the kind we've seen in Oslo and Bærum lately. We put a lot of effort into reviewing laws and regulations and all aspects of ethical behaviour. When we don't want to go into the proposal that lies here today, I've explained it carefully in my article. It is a matter of simply not believing that the proposal put forward here by the Progress Party contributes to our achievement of our objectives. But now we're going to follow up, and if things happen, if we're going to get information or if we're going to come up with research that indicates that this is something that needs to be done, we're going to evaluate it at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e408	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 2207]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e430	First something about the background because I'm taking up this field. I do it because the thinking – and the way of working – that lies in what I come back to is an important part of what we can call civil society, the idea of volunteering, community thinking, in Norwegian society. I myself have met it through various phases of my life: as an employee in the Church's Bymition, in meeting very vulnerable groups, where I learned early that meeting people with respect and the fact that people retain respect and dignity and in addition have a chance to share it with each other, gives strength, and later in the work started by the then Social Ministry, where, in close dialogue with the voluntary organization life in Norway, what is called the Voluntary Cooperation Body developed, and where Norwegian authorities showed great insight and understanding by realizing that voluntary action in Norway is something that lives a life of its own, and where the authorities' task is to understand it, to support it, but not try to control it or control it. The then political regime understood well – it was a workers' party government. Later, other governments have also stated that this is a joint heritage that we have in Norway. Now when I take up the self-help subject, it's on such a general background. As I perceive self-help, it is about trying to achieve a greater degree of influence and control over one's own life through a joint effort with others in similar situations to that one's own, as I've already had. And at the focal point of self-help that exists, it is based on the fact that experience-based self-help knowledge can be a driving force for a new national health understanding. This self-help understanding is based on the following thinking: a fundamental belief that all people have life resources, and that self-awareness in interaction with others makes it possible to use their own forces. Let me give you some examples. One of the examples I think is familiar with the general public debate. Psychologist Heidi Tuft published a book about his life and his fight against cancer a few years ago. She refrained from treatment, but in the book she told about how by mobilizing psychic forces she really managed to create something in her life that we others just had to read about, listen to, think about, and look to. Later on, I have had the pleasure of meeting a young woman who has simply made it a project to wander around the world and spread joy, saying that one should represent “vere power” – that is, find a kind of close contact with what is inside one’s self, and take it out in such a way that one in itself and together with others promises a situation that can otherwise be perceived as very difficult and vulnerable. In other words, self-help is in a way to grasp your own opportunities, find your own resources and take responsibility for your life and direct it in the direction you want. Self-help is to initiate a process in which a person turns from being passive to an active participant in his own life. When someone, like me, has experience from encounters with vulnerable people, and people who have worked with people in a needed situation, there is at least one thing you learn: there are very powerful forces in people if you show respect. An experienced nurse said to me 20 years ago, "Dørum, it's a lot easier to lift people who think there's something about them than to lift them that there's nothing to do with. The lady had broad experience, she had lifted many, and knew what she was talking about. I had to think a lot about it, and later I had to give the person very correctly. It was 20 years ago at the Ammerud home, a hospital run by the Church's City Mission in Oslo. It was a meeting with professionals who had security in their professional role. But more importantly, they had grown beyond the professional role, so that in many contexts they actually appeared to be related, because there were no relatives. It's not something you learn at school, it's something you can bring with you because you, together with your colleagues, develop it as an ethical awareness of your job. If we take self-help into contact with the Norwegian health reality, self-help can contribute to the development and new knowledge of the experience-based and the professional knowledge. It simply gives us the cancers we have in life, a chance, as well as all the professional knowledge that a health auxiliaries carry. I have gathered some quotations from people who have lived with self-help. One of them says: Talking to someone who has knowledge of the same thing as yourself, is recognition and makes sense. Another says: To meet other people who are in a situation almost equal to one's own, can approach the magical. Or, it all of a sudden tells about the amazing forces that occur in a human being when you get this recognition into your life. In the case of Self-Help Norway, we know it in practice as self-help groups in areas such as the mental health field, where we got what is called the Anxiety Ring — people who have a relationship with anxiety, anxiety as part of their own lives — we have had the interest group for women with eating disorders, we have met the self-help in somatic health, with the Association for Breast Cancer Surgeons, the Rygg Association, the National Association for Traffic Damage, etc. Always is mastering, handling and mental health access to everything. The point is not to heal, the point is to develop the life forces that all people carry. Self-help is therefore about enhanced mastering and quality of life. Now, if you look at the development of the self-help field, at least as I have experienced it through this period of 15-16 years, I think it has evolved from looking at self-help as a group of the sick, to dealing with a particular way of thinking – just a certain way of approaching challenges in life. The need that has led us to have a national plan has made the self-help field visible and driven it forward in close cooperation with our public authorities, both in the department and in the directorate. The national plan also describes the self-help field through its history. The node Self-help that exists helps to gain insight into how people in civil society can benefit from self-help, and it helps to focus on local and regional units and self-organised businesses that interact on the basis of participatory democratic principles. Self-help Norway is working on this in a very concrete way that I am not going to go into now, but that I have chosen to sketch in this way. As regards the relationship of authorities to the self-help field, it has been expressed and anchored in a series of large-scale documents for quite many years. Now I haven't brought all the numbers for the different years, but we had a big message in its time called «Don't let the grass grow again between neighbors» – that's many years ago. Then, of course, we have the Stairs for Mental Health. These two don't describe the self-help field directly, but they bring out the experience-based knowledge and the necessity of mastering, and what you call “empowerment” on March 8th, that is, that you bring out the cancers in your own life and that way you say, yes, but I am something, I stand for something and I'm worth something. St.meld. No 16 for 2002–03, the first national self-help plan to be presented and presented. Here we also see that self-help has evolved from being a tab of the will to be part of our society's understanding of public health work. That's why I see that healthcare can benefit from self-help in a number of ways. I'll mention them very briefly: first of all, as an ideology that reinforces the fact that users are worth something. Secondly, as an integral part of many treatment services and training activities. Thirdly, as an aid to health professionals, that you can see something in a day-to-day way where you can get tired and tired, cf. my little example from the Ammerudhome. And fourthly, as part of the interaction between primary health services and non-governmental organisations. Let me take a big side run. I've just been to India and met people at a school in a big city, where it almost shines on everyone that they're proud of what they're doing – everyone's proud. You hear a nine-year-old girl standing looking at you, saying I'm going to be a lot better than what you've ever been. Yes, March 8, no matter what the perspective – you see what you're dealing with. You go home and think that there's much you can learn by walking around the world, among other things. by discovering its own sources and roots. In terms of self-help as a way of thinking and working in relation to the professional, we know from experience with the country's volunteer centres that professionals – psychologists, psychiatric nurses – can use this in different ways, and developing this is so important. I'm going to finish this interview by referring to a book that came a few years ago, by a VG journalist named Jon Magnus. The book was called "The Way of Karlswagna" and is a love story about his wife who dies of cancer. It's his description of how to meet a health care system that on the one hand is almost hopeless, and on the other hand is absolutely wonderful. You see, it happens wonderfully when people are influenced by the ideology I've been trying to talk about in this interview. I'm going to go straight up the interpellation to create a dialogue from me, at the speed I have, to a government council and a department that I know is committed to the matter, and to ask questions about how we can benefit from this and move on together.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e470	The representative Dørum has put an important, but not often discussed, theme on the agenda in Stortinget. I think that's good. I fully agree with the representative that maritime aid activities are a very important part of the prevention work in the field of mental health. In a society where more and more people have mental distress and problems in mastering life, it is important to promote this kind of public health work. In Norway, as the representative has explained, we have undertaken systematic work to promote maritime aid, including: through a national maritime aid plan. And in the Mental Health Plan, more action is being taken to strengthen this field. Medical aid as a method is, as has been said, a way of raising your own resources and changing the situation of life in a positive direction, despite the fact that life can be experienced both difficult and difficult. Medical assistance can strengthen the ability to master one’s own life, improve the quality of life and improve people’s ability to participate in society. Medical care is also an important tool to promote user involvement, as I see it. Measuring, participation and user involvement are also important objectives of the escalation plan. Support has therefore also been provided for maritime relief activities to strengthen the mental health of the population. When Stortinget dealt with the public health report, St.meld. No 16 for 2002-2003 The Recommendation for a healthier Norway decided to draw up a national plan for maritime aid. Several non-governmental organisations participated in this work, and the plan was presented in October 2004. This plan would contribute to the systematisation and dissemination of experiences and knowledge on maritime aid, it would contribute to more research and knowledge development and to the establishment of new maritime aid groups. The Public Health Communication has just used the Anxiety Ring definition of marine aid, which is expressed as follows: ‘Self-help is to seize your own opportunities, find your own resources, take responsibility for your life and direct it in the direction you want. Self-help is to initiate a process, from passive recipient to active participant in their own lives.’ Medical care is a method that can be used by individuals who want to address their own problems and create a change in their lives. It is based on the fact that all people have resources and forces in them to change a difficult life situation. But it's important to say that it's not about getting together or coping with everything. Rather, the person with a problem or disease also has knowledge and drive to change the situation. Like the representative Dørum, I have great faith that change often occurs in the meeting with others. It is also essential for maritime aid as a method. Just because the meeting with others is so important, most of the work is done in groups. Here, people who struggle with something in their lives can practice trying and failing in a safe environment. I believe that this work is of great value when we know that so many people meet the wall, through all the demands, expectations and performance pressures that we are subjected to differently. The social assistance groups are not run by professionals but by so-called starters. The opinion is that marine aid should not be a relief for the ancillary public service but a supplement to professional assistance. Medical work is about mastering e.g. mental health, not concerning the treatment of disease. I see that some of the maritime aid groups that have come to date have often been based on themes characterised by women's experience, for example. nursing care groups for women with eating disorders, for traumatised women and for people with anxiety problems. But men also have a lot to pick up by participating in social work. For example, there have been many men in some of the first naval groups that were established, e.g. Anonymous Alcoholics and Anonymous Narcomans. That's why it's more right to say that naval work is primarily about being human and taking active control of your own life. I want to bring forward some interesting experiences from the Angry Ring, which Dørum also had in mind, which is one of Norway's largest maritime aid organisations. An evaluation of those who participated in the 1990s showed that participants had been given increased motivation to work with their problems, strengthened their sense of sea and increased transparency about their own problems. This, in turn, led to better social inclusion and less social isolation. The findings fit well with what is described in both Norwegian and international literature in the field. In other words, it benefits! The National Maritime Aid Plan contains four main points: to establish a national focal point research and knowledge development to set up a grant scheme for local actions to conduct nationalconferences and an international conference The main measure in the national self-help plan has been the establishment of a national navigability hub. It was known to open in the spring of 2006 in Oslo. This national focal point has different tasks. It shall include, inter alia: be the coordinator of a network of different groups and maritime assistance organisations. The node shall provide information, train starters, provide advice and guidance and help to establish new groups in different areas. There are also online solutions to stimulate maritime relief activities. In Norway, so far, no research has been carried out on marine aid, but what has been done shows that there is a need for a national focal point that can disseminate knowledge about the groups and the method. In a recent meeting with the manager of the node Self-help Norway, Solbjørg Talseth, I got one of them. informed that training is now to be provided for all employees in the learning and mastering centres of health establishments. I think that's great! These centres are well established in the corporate structure we have. I believe that the course for employees at these centres is a great measure and an example of how the voluntary and public sector can achieve more by pulling the load together. The aim of this is for us to launch more maritime aid groups across the country. There is a need to strengthen research and knowledge development in this area. Here we are, for the time being, in the preparatory phase. I see it as very important that more research is done in this area. Research shall also contribute to elucidating and documenting challenges and opportunities in the field of maritime aid. I stress that research activities will be launched in this area during this year. In order to stimulate increased maritime aid activity in the field of mental health, a separate grant scheme has also been established. There has been a great deal of interest in and many applications for this scheme. We have received applications from city councils, municipalities, educational institutions, learning and mastering centres, user organisations and other non-governmental organisations. The ADHD Association has received grants for naval assistance for its members, the Community Foundation for Sexual Abuse, which is an umbrella organisation for 16 centres against incest and assault, has received funds, Mental Health in More and Romesdal has set up naval assistance groups for young people who are struggling, and naval assistance groups for relatives of people with mental disorders are also to be set up, to mention some examples from the rich flora of what is going on in the field of servitude. The first national conference was held in December 2004 and was launched as a maritime aid network. Since then, annual conferences have served as an important meeting place, with a broad audience. As far as I know, Norway alone is about having a national plan for maritime aid. Several Nordic countries have made contact with us and with the focal point Self-help Norway to get advice and ideas for their own planning work. But we also have a lot to pick up from other countries anyway. I think, among other things: on research results and experience-based knowledge in this field. In 2005, an international conference was organised in Norway to disseminate maritime aid knowledge and to use international networks in this area. The representative, Dørum, asks how I will follow up on the work on maritime health after 2008, when the Roadmap for mental health expires. Firstly, I would like to say that the Government is proposing to return to the Budget for 2008 with an overall explanation of how to follow up the mental health field when the escalation plan expires. That's where we'll also give a review of the topic that we're talking about here. I can't foreshadow promises of follow-up in individual areas, but I hope what I've said is that I'm very concerned about strengthening this field. We know it takes time to rework structures for naval aid work and build skills. This applies both to the auxiliary and to the voluntary sector. I believe this is an important contribution. I would also like to say on a day like this, the International Women's Day, that it is not appropriate to suspend or lay down a job that affects so many women – including men, it is important, but it affects to the greatest extent a great number of women. That's why the node Self-help Norway is something we're going to evaluate, but I'm going to say right away, we're not going to put it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e526	It's probably a coincidence, but a straightforward coincidence, that the interpellation came up today. Interpellation and the Council of State answers are about how to be conscious of the forces of one's own life and use it positively. I thank the Council of State for an answer that I think was both thorough and marked by great willingness to search for insight and use it. I always think it's nice to be able to say that, and then I think it should be part of the political culture that we can say that, when that's the way it is. I understand that the Council of State cannot forge any administrative processes, but at least I perceive the deep understanding and understanding of this field by the Council of State. When I take the word again, it's just to emphasize that the more we professionalize society, the more we can risk that old-fashioned, simple experience of meeting people as they are, doesn't always get on the road. I have personal experiences from my own life where those who helped me most often were the ones who had the shortest education. Often people with a little longer education were so keen that it happened that you had to help them a little, and one does. But it's not like this is in general. You hit smart people everywhere, a little independent of both title, rank and background. But I think the whole self-help stitch that we have in common in this interpellation, in a society characterized by education, is about giving something on the road that can't normally be put between the permes of a book, but that might be described as living experience, and the systematizing of living experience in such a way that it's for joy and benefit. That's what the state council has been up to, the national focal point is doing. I also agree with the Council of State that this has been very important for many women, who have gained their natural self-confidence with this, but I also agree without further ado that this will apply to men in very many situations. When, for example: Regarding the work I've been through in other parts of my life, fighting the completely meaningless situation in which men beat because they find no other way to react emotionally, you know that there are ways to approach this that can make you wiser and better. My appeal to the Council of State is, in essence, that she includes what is in her response to me, and sees how the awareness and insight of this can in some way be preserved in the many educations of health professionals we have, so that in these professional educations you get more than what I got. Because in its time I was trained to be a socionomist who would keep a professional distance, but at the same time be empathetic. Everyone realizes that it's relatively hesitant. But fortunately, I met some wise teachers on the way, who knew how to be people against people, and at the same time become wiser. That's what it's important to cheer up. It's got to be my comment to the Council of State. I expect that point to be passed on to all those who are going to train those who are going to be the helpers of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e535	I feel that the representative Dørum and I, on behalf of the Government, are fully in agreement with this case, and how important it is to be able to use this method, using these people in various maritime aid groups around the country. In fact, we humans are seamen who are really the best experts at what's going on, and then sometimes it needs professionals who are trained for it. But I also fully agree with Dørum that education is no guarantee of giving the best help. Of course, it's crucial to give the professional help, but basically it's about being people and how to meet people, meet people with respect. As I said, I had a meeting with Solbjørg Talseth – as I know Dørum – the head of the association Self-Help Norway. I'll visit them during the spring to get more involved in what they're doing. I am also concerned that we are now getting research started in this field. I'm going to give the follow-up to naval aid work a separate report in connection with the state budget for next year, in order to report back on what we have done after this debate and on the way forward. I think that here there are really an incredible number of possibilities, which really cost very little, but which give a great deal of counting, and which can give people, despite difficult life situations and diseases, a much better life in their difficult situation. So I can just confirm that I'm going to follow this carefully sail, and I'm going to report back to Stortinget. And I feel that we have common goals about this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e544	I want to start by giving a big tribute to the representative Dørum for putting this debate on the agenda. This is a topic that we haven't discussed too much in Stortinget, and I have to report it with shame, but it's a field that has enormous potential and that's very important. Actually, every day, we should ask ourselves what we as representatives have done to facilitate helping people to move from a client role, a victim role, or a patient role – to become head of their own lives. In other words, in good Norwegian «empowerment», or maritime aid. Too often, people are made poor, often in the best interests. Sometimes it's just about power and distance between ordinary people and professionals. Unfortunately, in society we often tend to focus on the shortcomings and problems of individuals and groups, and many people also experience that the resources they have are not being seen or taken seriously by the auxiliaries. It has to end. Lise Aasmundstad, director of the Rehab pilot — her founding project in drug treatment — has said that a dose of heroin is placed at one end of Hardangervidda and an abstinent heroinist at the other end, so the heroinist will start going before she has thought about it for two seconds. This, says Aasmundstad, testifies to great courage, enormous willpower and a lot of resources. This has to be translated into positive energy. The node Self-help Norway talks about ‘From curing to coping’, or from curing to mastering, I think we can translate it with. They are committed to promoting understanding of the principles of self-help, which they define as ‘a basic belief that all people have life resources, and that awareness of themselves in interaction with others makes it possible to use their own powers’. These are amazing words, and I am concerned that we have to do this in practice. Because if we can translate what these words mean, in practical action, I think we can achieve small revolutions. On the website self-help.no I can read an article by a specialist in clinical psychology Gjermund Tveito, who says: "I have a basic belief that people can figure out their lives, and I view self-help as an important cultural contribution. The empowerment movement is a counterweight to the field of expertise and the synthetic life where all that has to do with emotion is unwanted and disruptive. I believe the health care system today needs this counterweight." I think we should notice this insight. In order to promote the maritime aid idea and the empowerment movement, we politicians need to ask for, support and talk about maritime aid. It must be part of plans and strategies, and we must ensure that the national self-help plan developed by the Social and Health Directorate is disseminated. Social assistance is a lot about the view of people. In addition, as Tveito describes, democracy is about being at the same level as equivalent people. The node Self-help Norway says: ‘Experience-based self-help knowledge must be a driving force for a new national health understanding.’ They want experience-based knowledge to be used in conjunction with professional knowledge, among others. as part of capacity-building actions. As far as the Roadmap for mental health is concerned, the aim is to contribute to the most normal life, well-being, improved quality of life and participation in society. This shall be achieved through independence, independence and mastery, and the focus shall be on prevention. Medical care is an important part of the country’s preventive mental health work, and the focal point is an important part of health promotion and prevention. Norway is the first country in Europe to have a national stake in this field, and we have received a lot of attention. Both research and experience make the need for a national focal point visible. This is in order to gather, process and analyse people’s own experiences from different auxiliaries arenas, to disseminate knowledge on participants’ experiences in maritime assistance and to develop knowledge and understanding of the benefits of different auxiliaries for participants. The node shall develop a living environment of competence, where different actors can gain and contribute knowledge. The work is already well under way, and according to the maritime hub, the progress is actually greater than the employees have the opportunity to meet. Medical care is also a very important part of user participation, which the Government is concerned with ensuring and developing. And I believe that the Council's response to the interpellant is bearing witness to the fact that this area will receive both her attention and support in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e580	Help needs to be provided to people in difficult situations. At the same time, they need to be able to use their own resources and help themselves and other people in the same situation. St. pp. No 63 for 1997-1998, The Roadmap for Mental Health, has provided leadership for today’s work on mental health, and the obliging plan was a commitment to provide people with mental health problems — and the sector elsewhere — with a lifting that was absolutely necessary. The aim of the escalation plan was to strengthen all stages in the response chain. The goal was to create a comprehensive and coherent treatment network, where the user perspective was to remain in focus. The Bondevik I government specified that the user perspective was central to government policy, and gave the following definition: ‘User participation is based on respect for the individual and is in our society a good thing in itself [[...]] Human experience and knowledge must be recognised and used by those who are set to help. In St.meld. No 16 for 2002-2003 Response to a healthier Norway, the public health report, was self-help described as a field of action. A national self-help plan was proposed there. The aim of the plan was to promote self-help methods as a tool for prevention. Through participation in self-help groups, many people experience that life’s problems do not develop into stressful mental problems. The Communication defined self-help as addressing own opportunities, and self-help can improve the ability of individuals to express their problem and thus provide a basis for mastering and better quality of life. Contributing to a self-help group can help to strengthen the ability to benefit from professional assistance. Meeting others who have the same experience can be experienced as a liberation by too many. Many challenges in life are related to blame or shame, and in many areas we lack transparency. The individual who experiences something difficult may think that he or she is the only one who has experienced a similar event or feeling. Often it turns out that there are more in the same situation. Furthermore, many have learned to deal with and get out of difficult events or to deal with difficult feelings, and sharing experiences and solution strategies with others can be fruitful. The establishment of the Self-help node Norway was part of the national self-help plan, as an information and dissemination channel. I will give tribute to the interpellant, who is concerned with the continuation of this important work done in self-help in Norway. Mental health is central to public health and closely correlates with concepts such as mastering, adaptability and quality of life. It's about the individual's resources in everyday life, resistance to mental and physical stress, which we all experience, and our ability to master our own lives. I perceive that the government is concerned with public health, and further investment will be important in a public health perspective. Governments quoted in their article the definition of self-help by the Scaring Ring: ‘Self-help is to seize your own opportunities, find your own resources, take responsibility for your life, and even direct it in the direction you want. Self-help is to initiate a process, from passive recipient to active participant in their own lives’. What is important is that the anxiety ring defines anxiety not just as a problem, but as a resource – or in another way: a normal reaction to something that is difficult or wrong. Norwegian Self-Help Forum says: Whoever has a problem also has knowledge. That is well said, and it may be appropriate with the words «It knows best how the shoe presses it». Recognition of the importance of individual experience must continue to be enshrined in mental health protection in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e614	Let me do some slightly general considerations after a few years of political seagoing service. I have been – and I am – a strong supporter of the educational revolution we have had in Norway, including the professionals we have received. But of course I haven't been able not to notice how in many ways we have trained ourselves away from close contact with the close things. That is, it happens that you become theoretically wise, and that's good, that's necessary. I'm a strong supporter of it. But it happens that you're on the road because of the grip that's not good enough, not getting close enough to the people you're going to help. Let me use an example that tells you something about self-help. In a completely different role in my life, I met as a trusted Norwegian citizen, as a government council, a tired, drug addicted couple. They had walked all over the Norwegian auxiliaries. I sat and listened to them with my good friend and worked with Rita Sletner. It struck me that they had basically met socionomists, child protection educators, nurses or doctors. After a while they just looked at me and said that either they were ignorant, rude or arrogant. Then I asked if they had met someone who at any time hadn't been like that. Then they said, mostly policemen, because they almost never went out to be anything other than what they were. It strikes me that any professional here in life who is perceived as never going out to be anything other than what you are, has achieved something very well. It means that in your life you've managed to integrate your practical, necessary theoretical knowledge with your normal humanity in such a way that when you're here, you're here in a completely right way. You're not trying to express anything other than that, and we understand that very well. I think the power of self-help is exactly what the others in this interpellation debate have been about, showing people, no matter how they are exposed – and the representative Thorkildsen had a brilliant example of it – that we see that they are something. Although the dress theme may not invite you to believe it, we still show the understanding that we understand that there are some forces. Meeting people in such circumstances, and many other circumstances – I drew up an example from a nursing home in Oslo – I think it's about life forces that it's difficult and tough to get political, because it doesn't look like the cutting table. That's why I'm very happy that we can have the Interpellation Institute in Stortinget, that we can have this open conversation that we have here. It's important, I think, to tell the Council of State when she commits herself as strongly as she does, because it doesn't give immediate mention. But I think it's important for our whole society and maybe to be able to say the day that you've ended up with politics, that you've made a small contribution to making the world a little better than it was before you started. I think the thinking behind self-help is pretty important thinking in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e629	I think it's been a good debate, and there's no doubt that it also seems like there's a very broad political consensus that this is an area where it's important to continue working on to give more opportunities to both participate in abstinence groups and in other ways get the opportunity to master your own life in an even better way, despite difficult life situations. I can only assure the representative Dørum that I am going to try to contribute on the basis of the job I now have, in a good way in this area that – there I agree with Dørum – will not be paying off tomorrow or the day after tomorrow and perhaps not in any year either. But anyway, we're going to have a big focus on that, too, from the government side. I thank Dørum for this interpellation debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e636	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e642	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e650	During the debate, Mr Lysklätt has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government, in the event of any implementation of the Data Storage Directive [[2006/24/EC]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e680	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Bent Höie on behalf of Right and Left The proposal from the Progress Party reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit legislative proposals to incorporate municipal audit into the statutory audit law, so that in future the independence of the statutory auditor in the municipal sector is as stringent as the independence of the statutory auditor in the private sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e704	The proposal from the Right and the Left reads: ‘The decision asks the Government to come back with proposals ensuring greater independence for auditors in the municipal sector.’ An alternative is to vote between the setting and the proposal from the Right and the Left. The President assumes that the Progress Party now wants to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It's nodding. The Committee had set up: Document No 8:13 [[2006-2007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e727	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-08.ana.ud644e738	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
