ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e24	The representative Borghild Tende, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e33	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e50	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. The representative, Gunvald Ludvigsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e55	On behalf of representatives Lars Sponheim, André N. Skkelstad, Leif Helge Kongshaug and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a simpler and better regulation for local producers of alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e60	The representative, Mr Dagfinn Højbrätten, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e63	On behalf of the representatives Hans Olav Syversen, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Line Henriette Holten Hämdal and myself, I will make a proposal on preferential treatment and reduced customs duties to promote increased trade with developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e69	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e93	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Kristin HalvorsenState Council Helen Bjørnø State Council Knut Storberget The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Børge Brende.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e112	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment. In fact, in recent days there have been considerable uncertainties and uncertainties about the policy of the Norwegian government regarding climate change. Climate change is the biggest challenge facing mankind in this century, so it has been important and important for Norway to take on a leadership jersey here. Therefore, the Right Pleasure was when the Minister for Environmental Protection, across a whole page of the Evening Post, decided that the Government will go in for 20 p.m. reduction in to Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. That guarantee lasted a few weeks, until the Prime Minister said yesterday that he could not stand behind this. According to the Evening Post today, even the Minister for the Environment has been told that she has gone out and made ambitious demands. Had this been a small matter and not concerned with the greatest challenge facing humanity in this century, it might not have been so important. But here we have a Norwegian government that creates confusion about where you want to go in climate policy, and about what the objectives are. One thing is to speak to the papers, another thing is to speak from the pulpit of the Great Britain. It is absolutely necessary for the United Kingdom to clarify whether Norway has a policy in this area, or whether it is such that government councils in Norway think they can express themselves as environmental policy commentators in the press. My question then goes directly to the Minister of Environment as the Norwegian Government's Council of State: Is it that the climate objectives are not clarified, or is it the Minister of Environment's guarantee in the Evening Post that applies, that Norway should reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20 pst. by 2020? I would like an answer to what is the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e121	The government has said that Norway should be a leading country in environmental policy. We have also said that the climate challenge is the most important environmental issue we face. Then the government has also stated to the Stortinget that we are working this spring with the main measures that we are going to put in place to reduce emissions in Norway as well. We have told the Storting that during the spring, work will be done on the sectorial climate action plans, which means that we are going into all sectors of society to find concrete measures to ensure a reduction. Then we have said that we should also follow up on the Low Emissions Committee report and come back to the Storting in an appropriate way on the long-term objectives of climate change reduction in Norway. And then we have said that in this work Norway must also achieve its specific objectives. The Stortinget has been briefed on this. I want to repeat today that during the spring we will come up with our determinations of the concrete objectives. Then I have said in the evening post and also in many other places that Norway should have an ambitious climate policy. I have also said that it is at least as important to state that Norway should have at least as ambitious climate policies as the EU. The EU has not set its objectives either, but the European Commission has made a proposal. We want to reflect to spring what concrete objectives we have reached.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e126	I did not get an answer to my question as to whether the Minister of Environment's guarantee in the Evening Post that Norway should reduce its emissions by 20 pst. by 2020, is the Government’s policy. The government appears in the most important matter facing mankind in this century, with a vague policy. It is not a government that heads – the government appears to be a climate policy seminar in this matter. I cannot, therefore, be confirmed by the Minister for the Environment that what she guaranteed – she herself used the word ‘guarantors’ – in the Evening Post is to be reduced by 20 pst. by 2020, is the Government’s policy. When the Minister of Environment is unable to answer that question, I therefore take the opportunity to ask the Minister of Finance – as the Deputy Minister of the Government – the question: Did the Minister of the Environment speak on behalf of the entire Norwegian Government as she guaranteed the Government will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20 pst. by 2020? I want the Minister of Finance's answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e133	The President has doubts as to whether the Minister of Finance is responsible for such issues in the Government, but will leave to the Minister of Finance even if she wants to answer Børge Brende's supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e136	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e143	The government has not concluded on the percentage of climate targets we will set for 2020. It is now for treatment in the Government. What the Government agrees on is this: firstly, the entire government is behind Norway as an environmental policy country. Secondly – given by the first – we will have no lower level of ambition than the EU in terms of global greenhouse gas emissions from Norway. We're working on that right now. The important thing now is not that that's what we can call an auction over percentages – the most important thing now is that we start the discussion about what kind of instruments we're going to use to achieve those goals. And then it's a happy and historic day when the Right gives us a blank mandate on all the means we're going to propose to reduce greenhouse gas emissions – because the Right has not been a leading party on this issue before.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e152	The President wants to accept four follow-up questions — first, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e156	Let me first say that the Progress Party probably shares Prime Minister Stoltenberg's skepticism with realism in some of the statements made by the Minister for the Environment. The 20 % come from the EU's work on climate policy. The EU produces 80 pst. by its power using highly polluting coal power. 98 pst. by the power we use in Norway comes from renewable hydropower. 20 pst. national emissions cut, says the Council of State. Then my question is: Shall these cuts – 20 pst., 30 pst. or 40 pst., for the sake of the case – on which the seventh and last landings are to be made through the use of the instruments permitted by the Kyoto Protocol, or shall this be done exclusively through the national emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e163	We will come back to Stortinget with our own big message. In this context, we are working to divide all the different sectors into different groupings. So we're dealing with the industry, transport, waste, etc. – the different sectors. We need to set specific targets for each sector and look at what action is needed to achieve these targets. We have said that we will come to Stortinget with a big message about it. There will be concrete targets, and there will also be concrete measures. With regard to our Kyoto commitments, we have said that the achievement of the Kyoto targets will be achieved through a combination of national measures and quota purchases.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e170	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e173	Norway shall be a leading country. That's why it's so important that we set a measure. And therefore, it is problematic that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has not set this target figure – nor is it willing to do it for a while. The Christian People's Party supports the Minister of Environmental Protection in terms of vision and measurement. We want to draw the measure longer, to 30 pst. For this reason, I would like to give the Minister of the Environment one opportunity in the Grand Duchy's Question Time to confirm clearly and clearly that we are united in taking the measures proposed by the Low Emissions Committee, put into effect, 30 pst. as a measure – and be better than the EU. Can the Council of State give me that guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e180	I am very happy that I can stand with the Christian People's Party about having an ambitious climate policy. If there is something on which the Government is very clear, and for which the entire Government is actively working, it is precisely to specify and make visible all our actions in order to be a leading country in climate policy. I have repeatedly said that Norway should have ambitious objectives, but I have also said that the Government has not yet taken a decision on this. That's why, of course, it's absolutely impossible to put into practice and guarantee some percentages from the pulpit today. But we're going to agree on an ambitious climate policy, and then in the spring we're going to come back with proposals on the concrete figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e187	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e190	I don't remember ever having experienced in Stortinget that a state council until those degrees has been set aside – and taken down – by its own party leader as we have experienced here today. The Minister for the Environment has gone out and said that Norway should cut a minimum of 20 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions. Today the Minister of Finance says that this matter is not settled. The Minister for the Environment did not have a back cover for what she said. What we're experiencing here is that Norway is giving up the leadership role in this area. Germany, England and the European Commission have numerical targets, while the lead Norway does not have them. The combination of a weakened state council and the fact that we give up this leadership role is very bad – in an area as important as this is about. I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment about the following: How can we in the future know that the Minister for the Environment has a back cover in the Government when she participates in the change of environmental policy? Which of her statements is that which has back coverage in the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e199	There is no difference between what the Minister of Finance says and what I say as Minister of Environment. We have been clear, both the Minister of Finance and I – and also other members of the government – that we are in a process of achieving our specific objectives. The European Commission has made a proposal that is now being discussed in the EU. No decision has yet been taken there. In the debate I have made concrete and said what I want. I think it's a good starting point that someone suggested 30 pst, and that someone suggested 20 pst, but I've always been clear that the government has not made any decision about it. Then it's my responsibility to ensure an ambitious climate policy. This is done by the Government through the concrete actions we have already taken, and through the big message about sectoral climate action plans that we are now going to work on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e208	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e211	It should not surprise the Minister of Finance that the Right is actually interested in cooperating to get something done with the climate problems. The previous government actually cooperated with SV, among others. on objectives in relation to climate problems. But what this main question is about is what the Minister for the Environment meant when she said that she guaranteed to have as ambitious emission targets as the EU has. I want to ask the Minister for the Environment a few questions. Firstly, what does the Minister for the Environment mean by a guarantee, when the Government has not dealt with the matter yet? And what consequences will the Minister for the Environment's own guarantee have if the Government does not achieve more ambitious objectives than the EU does? What does guarantee actually mean for the Minister for the Environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e218	Norway is a country that has both great opportunities and major challenges in terms of climate issues, the climate area. We are a petroleum nation, and we have great economic growth. This means that we have an additional obligation to ensure that we conduct a policy that results in emission reductions in our own country as well. This debate is going to go beyond the whole spring. I have been very clear that the Government wants – and will – to pursue an ambitious environmental policy, and that we are going to return to Norway as an environmental nation. Of course, when we return to Norway as an environmental nation, it also means that we are going to return to Norway as a front-line nation on climate issues. With regard to the specific climate objectives, we will come back to the Stortinget with it, but there is no doubt that we are pursuing an ambitious climate policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e228	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e231	I intend to ask the Minister of Finance a question. We know that the one-off charge for the car was changed from New Year. In particular, it meant that a number of diesel cars became more reasonable. Many then chose to take the government by the word, and went to the purchase of the cars that became more reasonable – the government actually boasted that they would be more reasonable, and that they had a big change of pace. The industry itself says that approx. 80 pst. of all new cars sold so far this year are with diesel engines and in the more reasonable category. In fact, many warned in advance of the change that the government was making, including the following: by pointing out some unfortunate consequences, but the Government chose not to take note of any of the warnings they actually received. You were on that conversion. Then suddenly the government warns that all those who have followed the call to acquire these cheaper cars are most likely to be punished. A sharp increase in the annual fee is announced for those who have chosen to follow the call. Among other things, we can read an opinion from the Ministry of Finance on the annual fee – on the Ministry’s own website. They say, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘diesel cars will be able to pay higher annual taxes than petrol cars.’ [[...]] This has been quite a lot, especially through the media, busy. Because if you, for example, following the Swedish model of the annual fee, you can get an annual fee of NOK 10 000 per year. My question to the Minister of Finance is: What models does the Government have to assess, and what level of the annual fee is it talking about? This is actually very important information for those who are now considering buying a car and who are proud that the government's conversion from the new year would be a predictable change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e249	It's true, as the representative Leirstein says, that we're working to get a more environmentally friendly car park. In this context, we have made significant changes to the one-off fee from the 2007 budget. The effect of what we are doing now is primarily about bringing down the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the car fleet. That is why we have now introduced a CO2 component, as it is called, in the one-off charge. That means that fuel-rich cars come out cheaper. But it's completely wrong what Leirstein says, that this must be an eager representative of big business and look to the Treasury's websites, to find out that the local emissions will be addressed next year's charging system. It's in Stortinget's documents. This means that in this round we change the one-off fee so that cars that use little fuel come out cheaper. They've all brought it. For the next year and beyond, we have announced that this conversion will not address local emissions from car traffic. It is true that diesel cars have higher particulate emissions than petrol cars, and that we come back with measures to do so in connection with the annual tax. But we're not talking about amounts in the vicinity of the ten thousand krona class. We'll come back to Stortinget when we've concluded here, but this hasn't been a secret. It has been written in capital letters all the way to doing two things – both changing the climate and ensuring that we have instruments in relation to local emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e259	My point was, among other things. how people out there experience this. I think very many have actually not got the threat of this huge increase in the annual fee. But it's okay to confirm that you don't see an increase in the order of NOK 10 000. We'll have to wait and see what it's actually going to be. I also note that this conversion should be proven neutral. So for 2007 you should get the same amount of car charges as you got in 2006. Among other things, the proposal of the Progress Party on heavy cuts in car charges was voted down. When, in the current year, most people buy a car with a tax reduction, how do you imagine that you will get the same amount of tax? If one eventually sees that one will not be able to achieve this revenue neutrality that the Minister of Finance was concerned with, can we then fear that the Government will already in May/June undertake conversions, so that one will get into car charges as much as the Government actually wants to get in?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e266	It is not that, in the revised national budget, we will have a full overview of how this picture is. It is such that when the budget came in October, all those who had intended to buy a small, fuel-rich car waited, of course, for over New Year's to buy it. So we do not know exactly how these distortions in the one-off charge are now affecting the car park. In addition, it was not entirely proven neutral. It was actually a small relief in the one-off fee in what we proposed. But what I want to say is very loud and clear – if there are any people who haven't come to realize that we're going to work on two things, both fuel-rich cars and local emissions – is: we're going to provide tools to address the local emissions – all of them must be prepared – and there will be a requirement for particulate filters related to diesel cars in the future. There is work here in Norway related to what is happening in the EU in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e273	The President accepts three follow-up questions – first Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e276	Not only are we among those who have Europe's highest car charges; we are also among those who have Europe's largest and oldest car park. Unfortunately, it has an average age significantly higher than in the EU. We have a scrapping age of less than 20 years, and we see that newer cars are considerably more environmentally friendly, while being significantly safer. In fact, in a Swedish survey conducted by Folksam, it is established that in a meeting accident there are 90 pst. less risk of death if you are in a car produced after 2000 versus in a car produced between 1980 and 1984. Will the Minister of Finance, like the Right, have a faster replacement of the car fleet to ensure that we get both safer and more environmentally friendly cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e283	I guess I have to say that the right has had the chance – for four years – to do something about the car charges. It is only now, after the new government, that there has really been a significant change in car charges, with a very clear goal of getting to a more environmentally friendly car park. So I guess that wasn't the right without influence in the previous government. And they had the Minister of Finance. Nothing happened. Now there's speed in the business. This replacement happens a little over time, it's clear. But our ambitions regarding the composition of the car park are that we should do what is safe, and that we should be able to get a car park that reduces emissions in total. This is related to the discussion we had, namely: how are we going to manage to reduce climate emissions in Norway, and how are our contributions going to be in the world? It is clear that this is the transport sector, which accounts for approx. 20 pst. of national emissions, very, very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e290	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e293	It is only now, in 2006-2007, that we have precise and objective criteria for CO2 emissions. In the past, we had to use cylinder capacity and horsepower. So that's the time now. I think it is important to find out that the charging policy that governs purchasing behaviour in the climate-friendly direction must be taken out of the consumer's mind. And now we get ongoing reports that the importers are different prices. They cross-subsidize the cars the Government wants to price more, away, and they won't allow the tax reduction to benefit consumers, but they'll take it in their pockets in the form of increased margins. We shouldn't think of that. Now it is limited what the Minister of Finance can do in terms of pricing cars, but one can increase competition at the import level by facilitating parallel imports, in order to stress the importers. One can call the industry and give it a clear message that we can't find this in. And one can help in various ways to cooperate with the press and consumer organisations, so that consumers can get along with what the industry is doing now, and choose cars where the industry is honest and implements a climate-friendly policy. What will the Minister of Finance do?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e305	Sponheim's points are very good, and he helps by asking me this question today. This is primarily a problem that consumers need to address. They have to ask and dig and make sure that the tax reduction that we have carried out for the fuel-efficient cars benefits the fuel-efficient cars. The Ministry of Finance has extensive websites, so that you can go in and check out what a reduction in the one-off fee will result in for each model. Consumers must use their consumer power and demand it. Because as Sponheim says, the car industry is not supposed to change the composition of the car park by doing this. I've said the same to consumers in many ways, and I'm trying to use the media and all the other channels to get it done. And we're going to closely monitor this. If there are any more steps I can take without introducing a planned economy where the Ministry of Finance decides the selling price for the individual car models, I will assess it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e315	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e318	For every minute that goes by, the state requires approx. 100 000 kroner in car-related charges, on an annual basis over 50 billion kroner. In particular, the entry fee for cars is extremely high in Norway. This means that cars in Norway are very expensive, and we have an old car park – we are at the top of Europe when it comes to age. Gradually removing the entrance fee would mean that we had a faster replacement of the car park, we would have a safer car park, a more environmentally friendly car park. The positive thing is that increasing demand for foreign-produced cars would not have created any pressure in the Norwegian economy, rather the opposite. Does the Minister of Finance agree that we can gradually remove the one-time charges on cars without creating any pressure in the Norwegian economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e325	No, I'm not. At least it would have created the pressure that the treasury had lost considerable income and that those revenues had to be found elsewhere. The representative is quite right that we have a significant level of charges in relation to the transport sector and the car sector. The one-off fee is a little strange, but it would have been very important for the government budget if we were to give priority to removing the one-off fee. This government has other priorities. We have said that we should stick to the 2004 level in terms of taxes and taxes. My ambition for the future state budgets is to distort taxation so that we get a more consistent taxation of emissions – i.e. a greener tax system and a fairer tax system. In this context, significant reductions in the one-off charge on cars will not be a priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e334	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e337	I want to continue the question strategy with the climate challenges. They are highly topical, including: by the United Nations Panel on Climate Change this week will present its new report. Climate challenges are addressing more and more people. The major consequences of the climate challenges we face will be evident in 50 years – I am thinking about the temperature increase. In 50 years, a third of today’s Norwegian population lives. Some of us have viewed SV as a driver in the climate issue. But now we constantly experience that SV is being run over by the Workers' Party on a case-by-case basis, both climate issues and other important ethical issues, such as biotechnology. But in climate policy, we need political leadership. We need someone to go in front of us. The message from Kofi Annan in Nairobi was quite clear: we must be braver, we must show political leadership, was his final message to the summit. In Nairobi, Norway failed to create alliances for radical leadership, nor was a radical Nordic voice heard in Nairobi. My question is: What role does the Norwegian Government intend to play in the ongoing international climate negotiations, where we need to be clear about setting – and now – clear new targets internationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e348	It is absolutely right that climate is one of the most important issues in the world at the moment. The first part of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change will be on Friday. There is reason to believe that the report will contain clear confirmations that we are facing serious climate challenges. Norway has been at the forefront for periods of promoting and operating international climate action. In Nairobi, I think it was a general experience for many countries that climate negotiations were a little tense. Norway, together with Sweden, took the initiative at the Nairobi meeting of an informal ministerial meeting, to be held in Sweden in June. Because we have this concern that the international climate negotiations are a little tense, we need to figure out other ways out of this. This is one of the reasons Norway took the initiative for a climate meeting in June, in Sweden, just at the Nairobi meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e355	In order to succeed internationally, alliances need to be built. The councils were in Germany yesterday. The next month there will be the Energy Minister's meeting, and then there will be the March summit where the climate and energy plan will be dealt with. The other Nordic countries now operate and coordinate in relation to a common strategy to form a centre of gravity in the EU's climate and energy debate. What will the Council of State do to help us, as a nation, as a country in the lead, also to create the radical Nordic voice that is being permeated within the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e362	Norway does a lot of things in this area. One of the things we do is we build alliances. I was, as mentioned here, in Germany yesterday to get in touch with the German Minister for the Environment, who is now chairing the EU. In addition, we are in close contact with many other partners, both the UK Environment Minister and other individual countries. In addition to these bilateral talks and the contacts we have, it is important that Norway contributes to environmental technologies, the development of technologies that affect global warming. What I am sure will be of great importance for Norway’s contribution is what we are now doing in relation to Mongstad – the development of a clean-up technology that can have an impact both in Norway and in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e369	The President accepts three follow-up questions – first, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e372	It's so that we produce about every year. 120 TWh hydropower in Norway. If we were to produce this amount of power based on coal power, which is mainly done in Europe, Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions would have tripled. One hundred million. tonnes of CO2 would have been the result of 120 TWh coal power in Norway. This means that Norwegian industry is already based on very environmentally friendly power. The point of view of the Progress Party is to implement cuts, but it must be done where it is most cost-effective. Would the Council of State now confirm, if one were to fall on a cut of the order of 20-30 p.m., that it would be natural for most of these cuts to be made not in Norway but abroad – on Norwegian account, in line with the climate protocol instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e382	With regard to meeting the Kyoto obligations, the Government has said that we should do so both through national measures and through the purchase of allowances. We have said both in the Soria Moria Declaration and many times here in the Chamber that we should take significant parts at home, but that we should also use allowances as a supplement. If we are to have a great promise throughout the world, every country must contribute. It is not that as one of the world's richest countries, one of the most advanced countries in technology development, one of those countries that also has the opportunity to develop new technologies, we can shift responsibility away from us and say that clean-up needs someone else. Here, too, we must take our responsibility at home. That's the combination that the government wants to pursue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e388	Børge Brende – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e391	In fact, I find it sad that Norway does not have a policy on climate change in a fateful hour for the future of the Kyoto Protocol. It is now determined during the spring. How can Norway affect this when we do not even know what goals we have set? I also noticed that the Environment Minister said in the reply after my speech that it is completely ‘indispensable’ from the Stockholm Chair to guarantee a special percentage of greenhouse gas reductions. But on 11 January, there was an article in the Evening Post entitled ‘At least 20 per cent CO2 cut by 2020’, the Minister for the Environment said: ‘In spring, the government will propose that Norway undertake to cut at least 20 per cent, perhaps a whole 30 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020.’» She further said that she “can guarantee” that the Government will propose at least equal reductions. And then the Minister of Finance will not give backing to the Minister of Environmental Protection on this today! Then I would like to ask the Minister for the Environment: is it so that she still guarantees that we will reduce by at least 20 pst.? And if she doesn't get it through in the government, will she go off?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e406	I am very pleased that climate policy is getting so much attention, because it makes it possible for us to have an offensive, broad, cross-political consensus on instruments, which are crucial to reducing emissions. Then I would like to say that the European Commission has made a proposal. So no decision has been taken in the EU either. I have repeatedly said that the government is working too fully with concrete measures to reduce emissions. We've said that we're going to get back to Stortinget in the spring with the actual numbers. Mr. Burnde is concerned about the climate. I am very happy about that, but I also want to say that we are now working on a climate bill because of the many permits of the previous government to increase emissions, which of course means that we now have a very demanding situation ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e415	For the sake of order, the President would remind us of a passus on the supplementary questions and additional answers in the Rules, because the President saw that the Minister of Finance was very eager. It says: ‘A member of the Government has the right to have the word spoken after each post by a representative’ or, where appropriate, ‘refer to another member of the Government to reply’. So it's up to one member of the government, if any, to leave another member of the government to answer. Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e425	I would like answers from the Minister for the Environment. SV entered this government as an environmental policy guarantor. We now see that the warranty does not apply. They have written in small writing at the bottom of the guarantee: This is not the government's policy. One day one was guaranteed to be cleaned. After year four, we get clean-up at Mongstad – if everything goes well. We were given guarantees regarding oil activity in vulnerable areas in the north, which was diluted in the management plan. In Nairobi, the Environment Minister had the chance to take international leadership, to bring together the Nordic countries on an offensive Nordic strategy. Now we hear that the Minister for the Environment will meet his Nordic colleagues in June. But the Nairobi Conference was a fall. It is well and good that a new attempt will be made to repatriate Norway as an environmental nation, but perhaps one should start to repatriate SV as an environmental party, because what is clear here is to bring together the entire opposition on a more offensive environmental policy than the SV actually stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e434	This Government conducts an environmental policy that no previous government has done. So we have an activity related to the climate that no previous government has had. I want to mention very briefly: we have an agreement on CO2 cleaning – the previous government did not lift a finger when it came to CO2 cleaning. I fully agree that the agreement will come a few years later than we had hoped, but we have got it done. We have renewable energy funds – the previous government did not lift a finger to put it into practice. We have now taken action after measures to reduce emissions. The previous government did exactly the opposite. It ensured that a number of new emissions were authorised. I can mention Snow White – the previous government gave the emissions permit to Snow White. I can mention the Kristin field, I can mention the Worm Lange, and I can mention Willie, Volve – a series of emissions that result in increased emissions. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e445	The number is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e448	Excuse me, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e453	I shouldn't be surprised if the next main speaker, Gunnar Kvassheim, gives the Council the opportunity to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e456	SV says in its batch programme that greenhouse gas emissions should be halved by 2020. I find that the level of ambition has now changed so that it is more than halved. The joint association then had a collection where the three red-green party leaders were present. There was a collection of kisses, clapps and hugs, and it was similar to confusion when sports organisations enter into sponsorship agreements in the business community. They went to the pulpit to a great cheer and left the hall with their checks. The Bjørndalen justified this by the fact that there were parties that were supporters, and he stressed that they had changed their position. He said that in the case of SV, it concerns the gas power case, and in the case of the centre party, they have changed their position on professional questions. The head of the Joint Undertaking is quite right that SV has fundamentally changed its position on important environmental issues. In the case of the gas power case, where one was to have a cleaning from day one, and then it became a scheme involving uncertainty about cleaning by 2014. I am concerned about asking the Minister for the Environment if she is satisfied with managing the turnaround of the times in environmental policy, which we are now being documented on climate issues, and which we also know about gas power policy. Now a youth across the country is inviting to join a joint effort to put climate issues on the agenda – and so the government is going the wrong way and increasing emissions. It means that a campaign is to be launched where the people are to lead, and then the government is to go in a different direction. Another question it would be natural to ask the Council of State, is whether she does not see that this difference between life and learning from the Government side may be involved in undermining the campaign that she has now launched.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e465	I want to ask the President if I can start to answer a little, and then I want the Minister of Finance, who was present at the meeting with the Bjørndalen to which it was referred, to escape. But the president has to decide if it's possible that she can make some comments afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e471	The Council of State may transfer some of its time to the Minister of Finance...
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e474	Brilliant!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e479	... and the Minister of Finance may, if the two Councils agree, answer any follow-up questions that may arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e482	It's brilliant. Thank you very much, President! SV is an environmental policy driver in the Government, and SV has ensured that very many new things related to environmental policy have happened. The government is pursuing a policy that is different from that of the previous government. That's right, because now we're working on concrete measures that give concrete targets. When, through the climate campaign, we invite the Norwegian people to do well on these issues, it is precisely to emphasise that we are now taking a joint promise – both government, public actors, business, people through being consumer power, information, etc. This government is pursuing an environmental policy – as strong as no one has done before. Minister of Finance, please!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e491	It was I who was with the Joint Confederation, on behalf of SV. It was not like kissing, clapping and hugging and full agreement. On the contrary, we stressed that there were disagreements in the question of environmental policy, but that there is scope for cooperation in order to achieve good solutions. Then I think that both the representatives of the Left, Right and Christian People's Party allow themselves a tone in the environmental debate that is completely out of match with what they actually did when they were in government. Not one penny was able to get Left to clean up gas power plants – we are cleaning new gas plants! No rail bet – it was a tragedy how the railway bet was held back. We're betting on this. No changes in the environmental taxes on cars – now something is happening in this area. So I'd recommend the representative Kvassheim to hack down a couple of heels. If not, it will be very embarrassing for him to look at the Left's own legacy, which we are now struggling with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e500	I'm recording that the average temperature is also increasing in the hall here. I take that as a good sign that I have met quite well in relation to what is a sore point at SV. There is no doubt that the guarantees provided by SV in the renewable energy environment policy, where there is now a full stop, and related to the gas power policy, where it is now being built without cleaning, etc., are the turnarounds in environmental policy. There must be an opportunity to challenge the party. Emissions from gas power plants are, to a large extent, the challenge in the coming years. There are now ten plans to build gas power plants in Norway. I want to ask the Minister for the Environment what approach does she want to take to these matters? Should these gas power plants be required to clean up from day one, or should they meet with the Stoltenberg doctrine: they are allowed, and then we will clean up in the future if that is feasible?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e507	The President notes that the Minister for the Environment leaves the Minister for Finance to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e510	The Minister for the Environment is very straightforward – it is a climate policy measure so that the Minister of Finance is not over-educated by the debate. [[Laughter]] I really must say that the Left's voice in the environmental debate surprises me very much. What was the legacy from the Left in climate issues? The left-hand heritage is a gas power plant that plows and runs on snow white and emits almost a million tonnes of CO2 per. years. The heir of the Left was not a single penny in relation to the cleaning of new gas power plants. That job is what we have started, that job is the new red-green government – and we are now demanding the further development of gas power plants. Then, of course, it is – it is quite clear in the Soria Moria Declaration – that new gas power plants must be cleaned. What we're doing now is implementing this on Kårstø, and implementing an agreement on Mongstad, where we can get to a huge, huge technology project, which the Left had never done in government, and which can make sure that we can't just clean Mongstad, but get to technology that's commercially interesting. It can save the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e518	The President accepts three follow-up questions – first, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e521	When you hear this debate here, you would think that the greenhouse gas emissions were drastically reduced in the last period. I guess it wasn't like that. But in relation to what is now mentioned here about Finnmark and that one million tonnes of CO2 is emitted from there, I would like to point out that on Kårstø a gas power plant is now being built that will also emit one million tonnes of CO2 in the year for the rest of this period. Now the government has said that there you're going to spend 5.6 or maybe 7 billion dollars on clearing this million tons of CO2. Then it is time to ask – and then the government agrees on who wants to answer the question – what reduction could we have had if these 5, 6 or 7 billion had instead been used to clean up coal power in Europe. Then I might ask that the Council of State Storberget answer that question. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e539	State Council Helen Bjørnøy is probably the right person.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e543	As the Minister of Finance has said up to several times now, this government has determined that new gas power plant concessions should be cleaned. As far as Kårstø is concerned, we have said that we should contribute to cleaning, and we had a wish to get it in place by 2009. Then the representative Lien is probably also aware that the NVE submitted a report just before Christmas that stated that the progress plan that was originally planned was difficult to keep. We had a big consultation meeting last week, and the government is now drawing conclusions for further progress on Kårstø. There is a problem about whether to convert the economy at home with thought-provoking reductions. It's a problem I don't want to go into, because it's about being obliged to take emission reductions at home as well. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e548	The President will again draw attention to the fact that there is a small clock on both trusts, both for the representative and for the member of the government. Børge Brende – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e553	In fact, I think it is a little sad and an expression that climate change is not taken seriously when government councils are sitting and flirting on the first bench and, in addition, they say that the opposition should look down, in a situation where it is clear that the government does not have a policy – for the time being – as to what climate reductions Norway aims to implement. It is clear that the Minister for the Environment did not have cover in the Government for his statements. Then you raise your voice – with weak arguments – and you owe it to those who were before. Greenhouse gas emissions were slightly lower in 2005 when the Bondevik government went off. It will be exciting to see if you jointly make a policy to achieve the same result in 2009. And on behalf of whom did the Minister of Environmental Protection express himself in the evening post earlier this year, when she guaranteed 20 pst. reduction? At least it couldn't be on behalf of the Government. I invite the Minister for the Environment to cooperate. [[President clubs]] We would like to help the Minister for the Environment so that she can now get an impact on the Government for an ambitious goal. [[The President clubs again.]] How can we help Government Council Bjørnøy in relation to its own party leaders and prime minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e558	It is quite correct, as Børge Brende says, that there were some reductions in emissions between 2001 and 2005. First of all, the high oil prices caused a switch from boilers to electricity. But what we need to be very aware of is that the projections that we are now seeing, and that we now have, show an increase. This is primarily due to decisions taken by the previous government. Everyone who works with climate policy knows that decisions you make in previous years have consequences after a few years. What we're now seeing is exactly that. The development of Snow White, permits on the Worm Lange, Kristin field, Alvheim field, etc., are permits granted by the previous government, which now result in increasing emissions. So we have a climate bill that this government now has to make sure to get paid, and we have to do that. I am very pleased with the cooperation invitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e563	I actually asked a question, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e568	The representative is asked to read the regulations again and deal with them. Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e573	Let me first say that these false rules we have heard about the climate policy of the previous government are going to have their aftermath. I'm not going to spend my time here on it. I have recorded that the representative of Kvassheim pointed out that environmental policy has received a parallel to the thirty silver coins of the Bible at the Joint Union meeting, nor has it been commented on. Nevertheless, I would like to give the Minister for the Environment the opportunity to say something about the power – or lack of use of power – of the Government that an Minister for the Environment has – possibly the last question about the environment in this round. There's a few weeks until there's been seven years since a government went off on environmental issues in this room, a historic day. It won't happen this time, partly because it's a majority government, partly because it's impossible for a government not to do what an Environment Minister says, at a time when climate issues are the most important thing for a government. The Minister for the Environment has enormous power, and probably more power – in this government – than any Minister for the Environment has had, for that very reason. And my simple question is, why doesn't the Minister of Environmental Protection use the enormous power she has to put down her feet, knowing that nothing can happen to her head in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e580	I can assure the representative Sponheim that I am using my power and my influence to establish a policy for this government that ensures that the environment permeates all sectors. That's what we've actually seen. The 2007 budget is an illustration of what we can do in terms of the environment, and when we ensure that the environment permeates all sectors of society. We've seen a historic investment on the railway. We have been given CO2 management, and we have provided a lot of money for technology development. We've had a tax change, we've got renewable energy – and we have the oil fund. The most important way to operate is to ensure that environmental policies are implemented across all environmental areas and sectors of society. I have that influence, and I use it. And I'm going to promise Sponheim that he's going to see stronger and stronger tracks, for the Soria Moria statement is to be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e590	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e593	My question goes to the Minister of Justice, so that he also gets a little to do today. In the news today, we can read that almost 7,000 criminals have been released from prison in the past year to bring down the atoning cows. The State Council of Storberget has stated that his great goal as Minister of Justice is to remove the reconciliation cows, and the head of the Justice Committee, Anne Marit Bjørnflaten, has told Dagbladet that the reconciliation cows will be gone in 2009. I am not going to say that the Minister of Justice can magic, but figures from 2006 show an increase in the pay queues. Although I can read today that we have had a slight reduction this month, it is nevertheless worrying when we know that the reasons for this are primarily the use of projected parole. More and more people get out of prison before they're done. Only last year it was 150 years in an extraordinary penalty discount. This is a mechanism that reduces the punishment of prisoners regardless of what they are convicted of. It's a gift package for the criminals, and it's a mockery of the relatives and the victim. The criminals shall pay the penalty for which they have been sentenced. In addition, we have a new form of reconciliation queue, which is a reconciliation queue for social punishment. The Progress Party has warned against this for a long time, but it is nevertheless evident that the Minister of Justice is satisfied. Governments now have two-and-a-half years to get rid of the settlement queues. The construction of Halden prison has not started yet, and the opening of the new open spaces is not enough, when you know that there are even more places, and then especially closed spaces, we need. My question to the Council of State will then be: Will the Government continue to release the convicted persons before the end of their term of office, or can the Minister of Justice now guarantee that he will take this seriously and grant more money for the expansion of the existing prisons and put in place more settlements than we have today, without the criminal being premiered and released early?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e604	I can guarantee that the government will do what it can to bring down the reconciliation queue in Norway. Following the accession of the Government in the autumn of 2005, we put in place immediate measures. The queue grew until the summer. It was then in 2,700 convictions who were waiting for a zone in Norway. After that, the measures have begun to work, and I am very pleased about that. There is also a broad majority in the United Kingdom who have supported many of the measures taken. Since the queue reached its peak of 2,700, it is a pleasure for me today to say that it is now down to 2,300 – a decline of 15-20 pst., which shows that we are on the right track. This is a decline that we demanded for a long time in the opposition, and which I'm glad we get. This shows that after the previous government's lack of effort in this area, we are now getting a trend in terms of pay queues where the figures are going down. Fortunately, this also applies to social sanctions. It is quite right, as the representative says, that we must not build a queue in terms of social sanctions either. So the government has chosen to spend extra money on the provision of free time, both last year and this year, so we have ambitions that we will get a long way in terms of the gender in terms of social sanctions already in the summer. When it comes to the issue of early release, it is an instrument used to reduce the queue, and as the Right Party, the Christian Party, the Left Party, the Workers' Party and the SV have been committed to both under the previous government and under the current government. It's an instrument we want to use, just to get rid of the queue, but it's seaworthy so that it's an instrument we want to liquidate when we see that we're dealing with the settlement capacity in Norway. There's our point that it's better to release a person after 85 days than to let him sit for 90 days, so let him go five days before, instead of letting him wait three or four years to come in and zone 90 days. It is better to let him come in and zone 85 days quickly, than to wait long time and zone 90 days.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e614	I thank you for your answer. The councils may think it's nice numbers he refers to today, but nevertheless we should be aware that there are 2,300 standing in the queue, as well as those waiting to punish their community. The Progress Party has also repeatedly called for the criminals who are foreign nationals to be able to pay their fines in their home country. This has also been agreed by the Council of State and addressed both in this room and in the media. Making a faster transfer to the home country of foreign prisoners will release many places in Norwegian prisons. We also know that a good part of these are in queues. One might wonder why this isn't going to happen immediately. My question is then: is there any disagreement about this use within the Government, or will the Minister of Justice now be able to put it into effect so that foreign nationals are given a zone in their country of origin?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e625	I can explicitly say yes to that, in the sense that we are doing what we can for more foreign nationals to zone in their home country. But it is not that the Norwegian Minister of Justice can decide overnight that now all Poles will be zoned in Poland. We have to deal with the fact that we live in an international society, and that there are several authorities that need to have a word in the team. But there's a lot of things we can do to make more people get zones in their own country. Initiatives have been taken, inter alia: Norway, in order to improve the Council of Europe Convention, to facilitate the transfer of foreign citizens, and we are now looking at the possibilities of adopting early expulsion decisions in the case of those convicted in Norway. Finally, we are now working actively in relation to our criminal services to go through all foreigners in Norwegian prisons to see if we can send them back earlier. It's a work that already bears fruit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e634	There will be two follow-up questions – first Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e637	It is difficult to take the Minister of Justice seriously when he claims that the Government is on the right track in criminal policy. More and more prisoners have been released into the street in the past, young, dangerous criminals are not to be arrested and imprisoned, and the police are experiencing a critical custody situation and are not even sent to prison for some serious crime. These developments are definitely going in the wrong direction, and the result is that people are experiencing increased insecurity. Is this the change in course the government has announced in criminal policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e644	This is a totally incorrect description of the development. So first of all, the queue is going down. It is at a significantly lower level now than when the Right sat in government, as it remained stable at a reasonably high level. That is why we have established more than 300 new prison sites during 2006 and 2007 and have decided that we should spend more than DKK 1 billion on establishing the new large prison in Halden. So this is a development that we've addressed, just to solve this problem. So we're going to see that the numbers go down, and we're going to have to recognize that right when we see the numbers. It's not right that Aspaker says that we're releasing prisoners earlier and earlier. This is a practice that the Right also carried out when they were in government, precisely on the grounds of getting rid of the reconciliation queue. The same release discount – if you call it that – given today was given under the previous government. We have assessed whether we should extend this, but we have not found that advisable. This is the Government's complete agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e651	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e654	I am not going to take the history description – we can debate it elsewhere – just notice that the queues are fluctuating slightly, and we are going to be happy that they are going down to 2,300. The time I was responsible for this, it was my ambition when the queue was to be terminated during the period we are in now, that it also included the winding-up of the early release. It is true, as Storberget says, that early release is a temporary measure, and it has had broad support. I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm here in the main hall that winding up the payroll per. 2009, as I see it, the government's goal is also to include that at that time you no longer have the early release. At some point, it gave approx. 130 parking lots. I think it's important for the Storting to know. I would also like to ask if the government is prepared to provide the country with more closed places. The government has put at risk the plans that have come to a successful start in Salten. The government knows that there were also plans to double the capacity in Halden by going from 250 to 500 places. But the main question is: Will early release be abolished as part of the policy of abolishing the queue by the end of 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e665	That's our clear ambition, and I've also informed Stortinget in the past. One of the reasons we want to break down the pay queue is that we want to get full reality into the payoff both in terms of length and in terms of quality. It's important that we get people into reconciliation quickly so that the compensation works, but it's also important that we maintain the level that the courts have actually set for punishment. Now, when we are going to wind up the reconciliation queue, it is our clear ambition that this early release too should be removed. I am pleased that the former Minister of Justice confirms that there has been a broad political agreement on this. When it comes to the question of closed places, there is only one thing a government can do to get more closed places, and it's building more closed places. Here the previous government on the table had a big plan to build a prison in Halden that would cost over $1 billion. I'm glad that the government I'm a member of, has now chosen to take the first spasmodic and will spend over 100 million dollars. In order to start construction, this prison should be kept clear as quickly as possible – with more than 250 places.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e674	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e677	The Minister of Justice may stand still, the question is to him. Drug use is undoubtedly one of the biggest problems of our time, because it often adds life to the drug user in ruins, and because it also affects a large number of relatives, who can experience having their whole life situation turned upside down. The right has called for zero tolerance to drugs because we believe society must clearly signal that we are taking the drug problem seriously and that we will put in the necessary means to combat it on a broad front. Instead of being supported by the Minister of Justice, we are experiencing a shocking attack, as evidenced by the fact that the Council of State has only listened to one ear, and that he is closing its eyes to a rather dramatic development, where drug abuse has got its foothold even in the most pig-grown strata, where drug seizures are increasing and the methods of smuggling are increasingly being speculated, and where more and more young people and their families are being ruined by drug abuse and its consequences. Right-wing zero-tolerance policies mean that we say no to drugs and that we stand up to help those drug addicts. Our government is delivering the greatest bet of the times on fighting and rehabilitation, and the Right has followed up in its alternative budget proposals. Today’s government has delivered the worst drug budget in eight years, and the pace of medically assisted rehabilitation is so poor that it will take 70 years to help those who need it. The Minister of Justice has ended up in a blind defense of drug free zones in cities and stops there. I note that we have a Minister of Justice who ignores the concerns of parents, increased drug seizures and the development of dangerous abuses in the workplace as well. How can the Minister of Justice defend his defence of drugs and his government take action in the field of drugs to help drug addicts out of abuse and into a more dignified life?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e694	I have to ask the representative to prove that I have at any time entered into a more or less blind defence of drugs – then the representative will look for a long time. But when the government also says that it wants to have an active attitude with regard to drugs, it does not mean that we should blindly use the tools that we have used over the years and that in many cases we do not actually see working. 60-70 pst. Of those in Norwegian prisons today, there are considerable problems with drug use. 80 pst. of which return to criminal behaviour after release. It seems to me that it is a timely question that other instruments are being put in place to address the problems that drug users and not least society are struggling with. That is where I believe we should respond quickly. But we're also going to allow ourselves to think differently about these. Nor have I at any time been in favour of free zones in Oslo, as the Right to Constantly point out. The Labour Party and several parties have supported on previous occasions, which was carried out under the previous government, was an injection room in Oslo. It should be a place of assistance where, among other things: the most aggravated drug users can receive a different offer of health care assistance, but also in the case of a number of other social problems, which can actually contribute to reducing crime. I'm convinced that the only way we can solve the problems with drugs and alcohol is to have multiple thoughts in your head at once. That's where I think the Right is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e704	I hear that the Minister of Justice describes a very serious situation with regard to the extent of the drug problem in Norwegian society. But I do not hear that he is very clear in the signaling of reinforced measures and a completely new and different dimensioning of the investment in rehabilitation. I also note that he does not comment on the embarrassing fact that he has provided the worst budget for eight years in terms of rehabilitation, while also describing the prevalence of the drug problem among criminals. Governments have repeatedly boasted of the police budget, and the police are undoubtedly important in the fight against drugs. Then I would like to challenge the Minister of Justice: how can he defend the fact that the police operating budgets now turn out to be eaten up by local investments for emergency networks and for more expensive cars, which means that you eat from the operating funds and transfer them to investment? Where, then, is the increasing capacity of the police to prevent and combat drug crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e713	I am pleased that the Right Representative now chooses the argument in the police resource discussion that there are other elements that eat up the police budget, as she claims. Some of that is also wrong. In the case of cars, for example, we see that the total price increase on cars goes to zero when you see that some cars actually get cheaper and some get more expensive. I would recommend the representative Aspaker might not swallow raw the description her sources give of the police budgets. This gives me an opportunity to just say that it is not right as the Right Repeatedly has said, that it is this government that cuts the police budgets. Once we got in position, we increased the police budgets by over 100 million. kr. It was the same autumn, 2005, that the Right chose to cut the police budget. This level we have actually chosen to maintain. So this constant claim that the government wants to cut down on the police operation is not correct. In addition, I also ask the representative of Aspaker to note that it is this government that is now helping us to record a record high record at the Police College to train more people, and at the same time a billion investment into a completely new emergency network, which is certainly important for the Norwegian police.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e722	There will be follow-up questions – first Solveig Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e725	Combating drugs is a major task for society. We see today that there are several Norwegian prisons that have major drug problems. In fact, it is often easier to get drugs on the inside of prison than it is on the outside. The use of dogs in prisons is very important for the prevention of drugs in prisons. But we know that criminal services don't have enough money to have at least one dog in each district, so that they can easily get control of dogs. Then my question becomes: What will the government do to reduce drug use in prisons, and will there be money to increase the use of dogs for controls in prisons?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e734	It's an important problem-solving that Horne's representative addresses. However, it cannot be limited to drug use alone. It must also include other drug use such as tablets and alcohol, which we see as dominant among those admitted to Norwegian prisons. Therefore, it is important that the prison, as far as possible, is a drug-free zone. The figures we now have in identifying the drug situation in Norwegian prisons are not clear-cut dark, and they are not as dominant as the representative Horne later believed. But it is important for us that this work is strengthened. In fact, I believe that now that we are strengthening criminal care, it helps to reduce the burden per person. We are also helping to increase resources to carry out safety work and also work against drugs. Then I would like to say: when it comes to preventing drug abuse, whether in prison or outside prison, perhaps one of the main prerequisites is that we can dampen the usual, legal drug use in society, dampen the consumption of alcohol by young people. There I am now inviting the Progress Party to also participate in cooperation, so that we can really get a preventive jaf on such serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e743	André Oktay Dahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e746	First, I have to say to the Council of State that we actually voted for the budget to which it was referred so brilliantly in 2005. I think, after two years, it might have been time to do a little name-change in the Department of the Council of State, to the Royal Total Unacceptable This Must-It-It-No-Me-Ministry. I'm not going to do that, just in respect of the hardworking people who are trying to follow all the conflicting signals that are constantly coming away from the Council of State. The government's policy consists of two things: release the prisoners, it's ours – all year round – and the people's need for security seems to play a minor role especially when you look at the situation in Oslo streets. Is the Council of State comfortable with the fact that the situation in Oslo streets is out of control, while at the same time cutting the police budgets back to the level it actually was at before – if you take the figures that actually form the basis of the Aspaker question, which is in fact corrected and correct and adequate for the situation, as the police themselves perceive it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e758	I have to repeat: the government does not cut in the budget of the Oslo police district from 2006 to 2007. The right-hand side keeps repeating it all the time. There was a cut in Oslo police district, and it came from the previous government in the 2006 budget. Then it was a real cut for the Oslo police. It was done when the right was put in government. We tried to correct this situation by providing Oslo police districts with an additional grant for 2006, among other things. Six million. kr. Then there's someone who's done a cut in the Oslo Police District, and it's the Right Party that André Oktay Dahl represents. That doesn't mean we don't have a challenging budget situation for the police over the whole country. Then it's not like it's floating in Oslo's streets. There has been a considerable effort to overcome the recriminal crime in Oslo, a work that we now see bearing fruit, and which just shows that the Government is taking hold of a very serious crime development, among other things. in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e765	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e771	There will be some changes in the questionnaire, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister of Finance, has been transferred to the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Inclusion, who is directing him. At the request of the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, this question is moved and answered before question 12, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 3, from the representative, Mr Brende, to the Minister for the Environment, has been transferred to the Minister for Oil and Energy, who is directing him. However, the question has been withdrawn. Question 4, from the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been withdrawn. Question 5, from the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 15, from the representative of Dagrun Eriksen to the Minister of Health and Care, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e787	Question 1 will be answered before question 12. Let's start with question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e796	‘The Government has now stopped the task differentiation project for public transport. Will the Government stop all task differentiation projects that allow municipalities to take over tasks for which the county is initially responsible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e803	A number of task differentiation tests have been approved between 2004 and 2007. All trials shall be scheduled to be completed for the prescribed experimental period. The test law provides for an ordinary trial period of four years with the possibility of applying for a two-year extension. Any extension of the trial period beyond 2007 must be considered on a case-by-case basis and, inter alia, on a case-by-case basis. be seen in the light of the administrative reform to be implemented from 1 January 2010. The Government uses the Generalist Municipal System as a principle for the organisation of the local government sector, i.e. that all municipalities should initially have the same task. However, task differentiation in some demarcated areas may be complementary to the generalist community system. New tests on differentiated solutions need to be considered in each sector, but it is not appropriate to give municipalities a particularly wide range of responsibility. As regards the trials on the alternative organisation of the management of transport systems in Bergen and Trondheim, it is decided that these will end after the regular trial period of four years. A decisive reason for this is that there is no local agreement between the parties to extend these trials. When the trials were started, it was explicitly said that they should be continued, there had to be agreement between the parties. The test in the Kristiansand region is agreed and can be extended. The test in the Stavanger region is not subject to the Test Act, so cooperation may continue if agreed by the Parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e812	What we're experiencing here is again the government's lack of faith that municipalities can take on bigger tasks than they do today. The evaluation of the pilot project in Bergen and Trondheim for public transport has not been completed. This means that you do not know whether this has led to a better offer for the citizens, which should be the most important thing in this case. If the answer that the municipal minister now gives is that although the evaluation report from Bergen and Trondheim, when it is available, will be positive in relation to the experiences of the inhabitants of the public transport service, it will not be relevant, for example. for the Government to grant applications for similar schemes for other cities in Norway, e.g. Stavanger and Kristiansand?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e819	Here you have to distinguish different questions. If we're going to extend an experiment that's been over four years, the parties have to agree on it. As far as Trondheim is concerned, none of the parties is in favour of extending the experiment in its present form. As far as Bergen is concerned, it is true that the municipality of Bergen wants to extend the experiment, but the municipality of Hordaland does not want it. We have to respect what was the starting point for the trials, that the parties must agree to extend. That's not the situation. For the evaluation, it shall start in the harvest and shall continue the first quarter, possibly the first six months, of the following year. Then you get to come back and look at the assessments that are available at that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e828	I again note that the audience's experiences of the offer are not a criterion here, but that it is the county council's fear of losing tasks leading to government policy in order to be able to give the municipalities extended tasks. In Trondheim, there is also a pilot project on child protection. Is it such that the Government also considers to terminate this pilot project, or is it a pilot project that will be possible to continue for the future as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e835	I am prepared to continue a series of attempts at task differentiation, but we have to consider from sector to sector and from place to place what is wise to do, but all the time in the understanding that it is the generalist principle that is to be the leading. In the case of public transport, which was initially the representative's question, it is a fact that the municipality of Hordaland is very little satisfied with the way the municipality of Bergen has followed up the project. So there's probably also reason to think that people in Bergen have noticed little about this. However, it will then be clarified by the evaluation process, and then at a later stage a decision will be taken on how to organise public transport in the Hordalands and Bergen areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e864	These questions are drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e878	This question has been raised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e885	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister for Transport: ‘How quickly will the process progress be added to the Ministry of Transport in order to ensure that the broad local agreement on Oslopackak 3 was finalised in the autumn of 2007?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e892	Expected growth in workplaces and busses in Oslo and Akershus are contributing to the development of transport growth and to the development of an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport system. Government is satisfied that local politicians in the Municipality of Oslo and Akershus County Municipality are taking these challenges seriously and through extensive cross-political cooperation, have been able to put forward a comprehensive proposal to meet the challenges by continuing the road procurement system in the Greater Helsinki Region through Oslopakton 3. I am aware that the use of tolls to operate public transport has been a particularly important feature of the local decisions on Oslopackak 3. The government will return to this and other questions in connection with the capital message submitted to Stortinget later this session. It is agreed that an external quality assurance of early stage design options – KS1 – should be carried out for State investment projects above 500 million. kr. KS1 was approved and launched by the previous government to improve the quality assurance of large transport projects at an early stage. The size has also joined this. The government is therefore following up this work. The total costs of Oslopackak 3 exceed the KS1 limit more than a hundred times, nor is there any reason for Oslopackak 3 to be managed differently from other major transportation projects in the country. I assume that the representative Dørum is not in disagreement with me in this. I also refer to the Stortinget's handling of Document No. 3:8 for 2005-2006, National Audit Office’s study of effectiveness in public public transport measures – Oslopakt 2. One of the main anchor points of the National Audit Office's review of Oslopackak 2 was that there were no clear targets for the bet. I can't see that Oslo Municipality and Akershus have defined such clear targets for Oslopackak 3. I am therefore busy that a thorough and holistic arrangement is being carried out for Oslopackak 3. I have already pointed out how important this is to the local authorities, both in meetings and in letters. A toll application for Oslopackak 3 must be processed normally in the State Road Service before the matter can be sent to the Ministry of Transport. With many remaining issues before the matter can be dealt with by the department, it is too early to say when the matter can be brought before the Stortinget during the enlargement period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e910	I am pleased that the Council of State notes that she is pleased that what is happening locally is being taken seriously. I do not agree with the Council of State that these are not clear targets for Oslopackak 3. Unpacked all the main sentence use in that document, it is said that traffic growth is to be taken through collective action. It is a clear objective and a prerequisite for the package, as set out, and the environmental effort is also linked to the road, by the fact that roads should be environmental measures in a part of the country where tens of thousands of cars are going — so that road measures are environmental measures. Therefore, I cannot agree that these are not clear objectives, but I understand that the Council of State will certainly ensure this in a dialogue with local authorities. As regards the formal aspects of the case, I understand what was said. My impatience is primarily linked to the fact that this package covers a number of projects that are not covered today – such as the desert exceedance – and not least money for collective action from 1 January 2008. I expect the Council of State to do its utmost to bring the matter forward as quickly as possible, and therefore my question to the Council of State is: Can she suggest when it can happen at the earliest? I'm assuming she's putting her best judgment and commitment into this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e919	I am pleased that the representative Dørum and I have a common understanding of the importance of this matter. I absolutely share Dørum's view that there are of course good goals in Oslopackak 3. It says that when it comes to the goal, when we know that what's in the package will not lead to reduced car traffic. But there's a big stake in public transport, which hopefully is going to take the big growth that we see coming in this people's rich area. That's what I think is important. The toll application came at the end of November. He was immediately transferred to the Road Directorate for further handling. I suggest that there should not be any training at any point for which I am responsible, but with the system inside KS1, it will at least be a good deal out in 2008 before you can count on that matter being done in relation to KS1 management.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e926	I think it might be useful for us all to be reminded of what Oslopackak 3 is. So there is a broad, local willingness to cooperate in lifting local taxes on car use in order to ensure two purposes: the first is 50 pst. of the money to ensure operation and investment in public transport, and the other is to ensure that tough and environmentally-polluted roads are laid underground. In total, it is quite clear that the intention is for traffic growth to be taken collectively. It's also set up to do this. I understand the need of the Council of State to have a fair and proper treatment. My question is characterised by impatience after this is put in place, by the broad political consensus that exists here – because it is unique. It includes all parties in Oslo City Government and all parties except the Advance Party in Akershu County. It is rare for a Norwegian Minister of Transport to be able to cut the cord for something that could be called 40 billion kroner in local subsidies for the operation of public transport, the construction of public transport and roads. I realize that in the dialogue between the councils and me there is at least a common will to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e933	I can underline the last one. There is absolutely a common will to do this. I feel that we have a good dialogue with the local government, and that we have an understanding of the processes that need to be carried out when a project of this size is involved, which is far beyond the limits of KS1 management. In addition to the KS1 handling, we must also introduce a change of road laws, if we are to meet what is in Oslopakt 1. Such a change in laws will take a year. We must take the time we need, but we must not spend time beyond what is necessary to get a defensive handling of this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e944	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, 27 people were killed in car accidents in 2006. No state had more casualties. In addition, there are very many accidents involving injuries and serious material damage. Does the Council see any possibility of subsidising planned projects and granting money to highway 3?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e953	In Hedmark, 27 people died in car accidents in 2006, of the nine on Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox Twelve people died in car accidents at E6 in Akershus, Hedmark and Uppland in 2006, out of the six at E6 Gardermoen–Colomoen. The meeting openings show an increasing trend. Based on rv. 3 the importance of transport between Oslo and Trondheim must be seen in the context of the priorities for E6 between Oslo and Trondheim, cf. St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000 National Transport Plan 2002-2011. In St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004 National transport plan 2006-2015 has been proposed to implement small investment measures, including: rectification of existing rv. 3 between Elverum and Rena in the first four-year period. However, in the 2006-2009 Stable Road Network Action Programme, Stortinget did not find any room for investment on Rv. 3 in Hedmark. In 2006, the State Road Administration of the East Region completed a pilot project on an 11 km long route on Rv. 3 in the municipality of Stor-Elvdal. The project has been mentioned in St.meld. No 46 for 1999-2000, National Transport Plan 2002-2011. The arrangement includes measures on lateral terrain, width extension, driving control, etc. The project is coordinated with coverage on Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox In the context of the 2007 state budget review, the Committee on Transport and Communications noted the following: ‘The Committee requests that the broad extension project be continued in 2007, as far as possible through savings within the eastern part of the State Road Administration Region, or otherwise on the main road of which Rv 3 is part.’ On the basis of the Committee's comments, I would like to raise this issue with the Directorate of Roads to see if it is possible to continue the wide-ranging project in 2007-2008. When priority is given to the parent road means for Hedmark in the next NTP, it is known to a large extent that the level of response to rv is high. 3 is going to be right over here. I would also stress the importance of the E6 for the accident development in general in Akershus, Hedmark and Oppland. In St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004, National Transport Plan 2006-2015, it is foreseen that E6 Gardermoen–Colomoen will be converted into four-field road with physical mid-sections during the planning period. This is followed up in the Action Programme for Investment on the Tribal Road Network for the period 2006-2009. I believe this measure is very important for road safety in Hedmark. It was originally thought that there would be a total funding arrangement for the entire route. Due to the lack of plan clearance on parts of the section – Minnesund–Skaberud in particular – the Ministry of Transport has decided to provide a financing plan for the sections on which adequate level clearance has taken place. I think this is an important step, which can allow us to raise traffic security gains for the E6 deployment measure at an earlier date. The Ministry of Transport has now started work on external quality assurance, KS2, of the first part of the project, and I suggest that the Government will be able to make a deposit proposal for the development and financing of E6 Gardermoen–Dal in Akershus and E6 Creatorud–Colomoen in Hedmark during 2007. It is a commitment that it will be linked to the partial toll financing of the entire Gardermoen-Kolomoen project. I also refer to my answers to question No. 13 in Question Time on 15 February 2006 and on Question No 13 9 in Question Time on 1 March 2006 from Per Roar Bredvold on traffic accidents and measures in Hedmark and in particular on the increase in Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e977	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which so far was a straightforward guess of what might happen and hopefully will happen. The Council of State also mentioned that the representative of Bredvold had had similar questions before. I can promise the Council of State and the Stortinget that I will continue in my period as a magnificant representative. I'm afraid number 27. 27 killed is 27 too many. In 2005, there were 15 deaths in Hedmark. There is no other state that has such a large number of deaths, and I hope the Council of State takes over that we have to do something to bring down the number of deaths. When you look at rv. 3, it's not just a road for Hedmark, it's a transit route for the whole country. Of course, I exaggerate when I say the whole country, but I choose to do it, for about 90 pst. by the vehicle combinations, the Østerdalen chooses over the Gudbrand valley, because it is shorter and more profitable. Rv. 3 is appointed by Stortinget as a route, but only approx. 6 pst. – I think it was – today holds the tribal norm, i.e. Eight-and-a-half-foot standard. So there's a lot to do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e988	The government is investing in transport and in the year's budget has a large increase in the transport budget, which also benefits Hedmark. But what we do with the big effort is to meet the national transport plan, which is attached here in Stortinget, and with an action programme that is at the heart of and falls within the national transport plan. In that action programme, the priority of the county of Hedmark has been followed up. In that priority lies the so-called lottery ticket – 2, 4, 6, 16 – and Rv. 3 is not a priority. In spite of this, there is a possibility of finding some means of broadening the width, and I'm -- ever in spite of what's going on in the NTP -- offered to engage in dialogue with the State Roads Agency, and I've done it all, hoping that we'll be able to find some means in addition. But it's a demanding exercise, because then we go beyond what the county has prioritised, and what the Storting has prioritised in its decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e993	I thank the Council once again for the answer. With regard to the broad extension project, it was me and the Advance Party that, together with the then government, got to 20 million. Extra kr to Hedmark, 20 mill. kr extra to the South-Trundellag, as well as that the Vegvesen came with something. Then we've got 11 km of good road north of Rena. I had hoped that the government could continue to give some millions -- let's say 20-30 million. SEK to Hedmark, 20-30 million. kr to Trøndelag – so that at least something could happen. When nothing happens – unfortunately – it is bad. If, for example, the Council of State reads Hamar Arbeiderblad for 11 January 2007 and sees where people die in Hedmark due to traffic damage, and reads in other newspapers about daily accidents on Rv. 3 – and sometimes people die there – I hope the Council of State will take this on board. 27 killed is, as I said initially, 27 too many. That's why I'm asking this question now, and I'm going to ask it several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1006	Governments assume that the death toll is too high both in Hedmark and in the rest of the country. I've been reminded of it by a mark that Safety Traffic had outside the Storting here in the early morning hours, with its clear demands on what we should do to keep the walking and the incubating, i.e. the soft road users in our traffic system. So it's going to work, it's going to be a bet, and we're going to keep doing that, both in Hedmark and in the rest of the country. Unlike previous governments, we haven't just added 20 million. NOK, we've added 2 billion in increments for transportation. This means that there is room for much greater action on both the development and maintenance sides, which means increasing road safety for road users and other road users. So this is what we focus on. Traffic security is point 1 of the Government's policy on travel, and we are working on the vision of zero killed and severely injured in traffic as the guiding vision for our work – also in Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1017	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The NSB has introduced significant slack in its route construction on the Vestfold Railway. After the last router revision per. On 8 January 2007 travel time Tønsberg–Oslo varies from 1 hour 27 minutes to 1 hour 37 minutes. On the return journey time varies from 1 hour 25 minutes to 1 hour 31 minutes. Passengers are constantly experiencing that the train needs to take breaks in order to hold the scheduled journey time or wait for crossing trains. What can be done to reduce driving time and improve the route layout?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1026	After the change of route from 8 January 2007, a train to Oslo during the rush period in the morning was given 7 minutes longer running time. The reason for this is that from the same date a new train departure was introduced in the opposite direction from Oslo to Larvik. The new take-off has the same running pattern as the other trains running on the Vestfold track every hour. It was a strong local wish that the new train departure should come to Larvik by 1 p.m. 8:00 a.m. Due to missing access to the track, so-called path, the path time for the arriving trains had to be adjusted somewhat. The infrastructure on the route between Oslo and Drammen is fully exploited, and the crossing possibilities on the route Drammen-Larvik are a limiting factor in increasing train capacity and at the same time a short downtime on the Westfold Railway. In order to improve passenger access to Oslo in the morning, the NSB will, in the context of the forthcoming change of route in June of this year, change the route times so that the running time of the southern trains is slightly longer, while the approaching train towards Oslo will be returned to the train path which was before 8 January of this year. I'm glad we got the morning train to Larvik, for which Vestfold County Municipality and Steinar Gullvåg have fought. Besides, I'm glad that from June this year, the NSB gets to the change of route that a local fan wants. There is also reason to rejoice that we have received a government to raise rail investment by 50 pst, so that we can also increase the capacity of this important route.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1037	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very positive response. I would also like to thank the Council of State for her efforts on the Vestfold track. I find it necessary to stress that it is necessary to keep a constant focus on the driving time on the Vestfold track, because it is now such that the Vestfold track will compete more and more with the car traffic on the route towards Oslo. As the collective field is expanded towards Asker, car traffic and bus traffic will in the future have shorter driving time than today. There is further reason to look at the stop pattern on these routes in order to get a better route than what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1046	I absolutely share Steinar Gullvåg's considerations on this theme. It is important for the Government to ensure that the train is competitive in relation to car traffic, not least in the traffic and peoplesette area that we are now talking about. The issue we are now discussing is a good example of how difficult and pressing the capacity situation is for the railway infrastructure in the Austland area, and then on the Vestfoldbahna in particular, as we are discussing now. Even a small increase in capacity, as the situation is today, has consequences for runtime. But we all have the same interest here in getting the train moving fast. What is happening now with the increased investments is that we get a new Lysaker station and a new double track between Lysaker and Sandvika while several parcels are planned on the Westfold Railway. So over time now there will be a better offer, as the passengers in the Westfold will definitely notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1053	I agree with the Minister for Transport that, in the long term, there are only additional infrastructure investments that could improve the situation on the Westfold Railway. I am also pleased that we are now getting investments on the route between Oslo and Sandvika. I hope that it won't take too much time until we can now also start developing the Vestfold track, as the Minister of Transport suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1058	There is not so much to add to your pious request. And we're going to have a good dialogue about it in time. I would just like to remind you that, in addition to the investments that have been made, a new four-year agreement with the NSB has just been concluded involving an increase in the capacity of the route up to 15 pst. in rushtida. We are very pleased that people also in the short term, from today on and over the next four years, will experience an escalation of both material, departures and capacity that will be positive for both Westfold and the rest of this important, popularized area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1069	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘There are several complaints to be heard by ESA regarding the Norwegian toll-funded transport project. Complaints relate to infringements of EU provisions on tolls, in particular ex ante collection, direct benefit requirements for the payer, as well as possible re-routing possibilities. Several complaints have been notified, including for projects on the way to treatment in the Ministry of Transport and in the United Kingdom. What is the strategy of the Council of State if such complaints are supported by ESA and the EFTA Court?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1078	The Ministry of Transport is notified of a total of six complaints to ESA concerning Norwegian toll schemes. The question is largely related to the relationship between use and payment, but with slightly different angles in the individual cases. I have no reason to believe that the collection in advance, as we practice it in Norway, is problematic in relation to the EEA Agreement, as ESA has never asked us to answer for this. Let me stress that the EFTA Court has so far not tried a single toll case. The Ministry has answered the ESA to all the questions we have received now. The Norwegian authorities believe that the cases where there is a complaint to ESA do not conflict with the current directive. I don't think it's right to go into a hypothetical discussion about the possible strategy if the complainants were to be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1085	Thanks for the answer. It is true that few, if any, have complained to ESA before regarding tolls. However, the reason why there are now six complaints, and several have been notified, is that the volume of toll use has increased dramatically in Norway, and in fact especially during this government. It is also true that none of these toll-funded projects have been submitted to a referendum, so that there is a direct channel from the citizens’ initiative used by the complainants. I assume that the Council of State is also open so that the citizens can use that kind of channels. But the question of follow-up is: If the complainants and the residents get the right, will the State contribute more to the projects that are not allowed to use ex ante collection and that are not allowed to claim payment from road users who are not using the project for which they are required to pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1090	We are in a process where we answer questions from ESA. If there is a legal case on some of these matters, we know nothing about today. Going into which strategy to choose if ESA will go to trial, and if Norway loses, it will be very much if, if, if, but. I mean, this is not the time to go into that kind of discussion. We have a clear position from Norwegian authorities in these matters. That means that we're running one race, and then, if it turns out to be unattainable, we're going to have a discussion about what the alternative strategies are. I choose to run in one direction and not spend a lot of time and effort on the alternative strategies today, as long as we don't know if there will be anything more than hypothetical questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1095	Thank you again for your answer. It's important and useful to listen, and perhaps especially to what you've said before. It is true that the batches that allow and encourage the use of toll financing have also set some reasonable requirements in relation to the use of such a scheme, and the reasonableness requirements are some of the same reasonable requirements that ESA is now examining and that the EU has stated, namely to tighten the guidelines on the principle of usefulness. It said the majority of the Stortinget when NTP was dealt with in 2006-2015, and the majority also said that ‘debt collection should be the main rule’. In practice, however, the follow-up question has not become so: will this government comply more closely with the guidelines that still have government parties to stress should be guidelines, when NTP 2006-2015 was addressed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1100	As far as I can tell, we have the same practice on this as the previous government had, and that has been incorporated. I have promised Stortinget that we will come back with a review of the toll financing guidelines, and that is what we are going to do, so we will get back to it. Neither the Council of State nor any of the central political apparatus initiates and encourages toll projects, which could give the impression that the representative Blackevik claimed. These projects are both initiated and adopted locally and regionally before they go through the Directorate of Road and into the Department and government for decision, before the Stortinget gets them – if they pass the government. So we have a system that I think is both local democratic defence and in other areas defensive. However, we should discuss the guidelines, and of course Blackevik should also be given the opportunity to take part in a discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1111	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The Regional Science Centre for North Norway in Tromsø is an important tool to increase interest and strengthen real-life competence in the region. The central science board has pointed out that new premises for this center are a critical factor for a well - functioning science center. Can the Council of State order that the State aid for the operation of the Northern Norwegian Science Centre be made dependent on new buildings, and does the Council of State see any possibility that the State may participate in a split layer at the newly built centre now needed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1120	Let me first say that the government is betting significantly on the testimonies. This is an important measure in the Government’s strategy for strengthening the real subjects. Knowledge centres target children and young people in particular and address natural and technological issues related to everyday life. Some centres also offer courses for teachers. The focus on science centres should therefore contribute to raising the real-time competence of schools, especially and in society in general, and not least to increasing interest in science and technology, which is a very important part of the functioning of science centres. The government has increased the investment in the White Centres and increased the investment in my Ministry's budget by a total of 6 million. kr for the current year, to 16 mill. kr, so it is a significant bet. This will be used both to strengthen the six regional knowledge centres and not least to help start a new knowledge centre in the border region. The White Centres also receive activity support through the cultural school bag. The professional part of the efforts at the science centres takes place through a separate science board of the Norwegian Research Council. They assess the operation of each centre and provide advice on what the centres should focus on in their development work. Nordnorsk Wittenzentrum in Tromsø has been advised that new premises will be central to its development. I would like to stress that this is a advice from the Swedish Science Council and in no way related to state support for operations. I can therefore cancel the cut in state aid because of the lack of new buildings, in view of the questions raised by the representative of Aspaker. The second part of the question from the representative Aspaker is about support for a new building. State resources shall be used to operate the knowledge centres on the basis of assumptions. There are currently many major and heavy challenges within the Ministry of Knowledge’s remit. I therefore see no possibility of providing support for new buildings for the Nordnorsk White Centre in Tromsø.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1133	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I was present on December 1st when the government presented its northern strategy in Tromsø. It was then said that knowledge should be naveled in the Northern Region Strategy. Nor do I think there is any doubt that the real subjects are of particular importance if we are to realise the possibilities in the northern regions. We need more real science, and we need more researchers to push further technology development to the benefit of the environment, but also for the settlement in North Norway. I don't think there's any doubt that the science centres are feeding many small research sprouts, because it undoubtedly raises the interest in real science. I also see that the number of visits at the science centres in general and for North Norway has also increased sharply the short time that the science centres have been in operation. My question to the Council of State is then: is the Council of State willing to consider a specific strengthening of the scientific centre in North Norway for operation, and I challenge once again on construction, all the time it has been said that knowledge should be naveled in the North Region Strategy, and that the real subjects there should have a very special attention?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1142	I am pleased that the representative has read the Northern Territory Strategy of the Government. It is absolutely right that knowledge is nave, and our focus on knowledge is also significant in North Norway and will be significant in the budgets ahead. The White Centres are especially in my heart, and therefore we have had a significant investment – from just 10 million. kr under the previous government and up to 16 mill. kr in my budget for 2007. The reason for this is that I believe that the science centres are contributing positively to strengthening the interest in technology, science and real science. Being able to walk a Sunday morning at a Witness centre with their kids is, among other things, a very fun way to get this with technology and science into it. We want to strengthen the science centres further forward, because the science centres are an important part of our government's commitment to real science and science. But I can't promise money for a new building. Construction is beyond what we have finances, and not least beyond what may be the main priority of knowledge development in the north. I'm well aware that among all our universities and colleges, including in North Norway, there are many who would like to have new buildings, and they're in line, before a new science center.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1151	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I had actually believed that the Council of State would now seize the opportunity to help concretely formulate one action in the context of the Northern Region Strategy. If there's something that characterizes it, there's a lot of words, general expressions and little concrete action. I would again challenge the Council of State to say how he thinks that the Northern Norse Centre can play an important role in stimulating and motivating students and teachers, in a part of the country that may have particularly great distance challenges and geography to contend with, since it is to cover the centre from Namdalen to Kirkenes. I would say that it has some special operational challenges in order to do the job for its region. I ask again: is there no possibility, doesn't the Council of State see that this could be one concrete measure for the North Region Strategy to materialise in something concrete?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1156	I was present when we presented the Northern Region Strategy in Tromsø. It was an extraordinary journey of joy. The reception we received in North Norway certainly did not suggest that the measures we have proposed here were seen as little concrete. On the contrary, the continent was very satisfied with what we presented, and we want to come back in the annual budgets in the future, of course, with many measures. The White Centre in Tromsø plays an important role today – let me underline it – and do a very important job. The knowledge centres we have around Norway do a very important job to strengthen the real science and technology interest among children. If it is that the science centre in Tromsø is facing very special challenges that I don't know about, I encourage them to send me a little letter about it and an application with a special reason why – whether it's a distance problem or other situation – special measures are needed, so we can look at it. I will only accept such an application and evaluate it; here and now I cannot process an application.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1167	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘The Forces Association has channelled between 100 million and 120 million in the last years. kr annually for cancer research. The association notes that they will not be able to maintain such a high level of support for research in the future. The position of the Cancer Association as a dominant actor and a premiscuous supplier makes voluntary efforts crucial to the activity in this field. What are the thoughts of the Council of State as responsible minister for research into the division of responsibilities and future financing of efforts in such an important field of research?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1176	The fight against cancer is an issue that affects everyone. It is estimated that one in three Nordics is somehow affected by cancer. This is a very high number. Through the National Cancer Strategy to work until 2009, the Government shows that we want to meet the future cancer challenges in an offensive and holistic way through diagnostics, treatment and research. Health is a priority area of research policy, and public funding has increased significantly in recent years, particularly through regional health enterprises. There is considerable research on cancer funded by the Norwegian Research Councils and Regional Health Enterprises and on the regular budgets of the university and higher education sectors. We have research environments of high international quality, for example. Centre for Cancer Biomedicine at the Rikshospitalet – Radium Hospital and the University of Oslo. They have recently been awarded the status of a centre of excellence and will receive approx. 115 million. kr over a 10-year period. Contributions to research by foundations and organisations are also very valuable. For this reason, the Government of the State budget for 2007 proposed opening up contributions from non-governmental organisations to the gift-enhancing scheme. This implies a public contribution of 25 pst. of the amount of the gift of grants for research of more than 5 million. kr. The cancer association's contribution to cancer research is commendable. At the same time, several organisations, including the Cancer Association, have based a large proportion of their revenues on income from slot machines. On 17 June 2003, the Storting decided to wind up the operation of the slot machines and to grant Norwegian Typing exclusive rights to automatic operation. The aim was to reduce the social adverse effects of gambling addiction. The decision of the Trustee assumes that the voluntary organisations that received the income from vending machines will be secured with income of 2001 levels when the automatic operation is terminated. They will receive an annual share of the profits of Norsk Tipping. This does not fully compensate for the loss of income, as there has been an exceptional growth in automatic revenues since 2001 due to delays in the implementation of the Decision. There is a need for a better knowledge base on how medical and health research is funded and organised. The Norwegian Research Council has just started work on developing a policy for medical and health research for the next five years. The work will address the entire field of research, including: look at funding, coordination and work sharing in the research system. When the Research Council's document is available in June, we will also discuss overall priorities and the roles of the various actors. Future funding for cancer research will be part of such discussions and will also be a return to the Government in the annual budgets. But again, we are pleased with the great effort the Cancer Association has made in cancer research over the years, and hope that they will continue to make substantial contributions to research into our greatest public disease in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1197	I thank you for your answer. I am very pleased that a policy is being developed in this area, because I have, in many ways, invited the Council of State to some fundamental considerations about this. There are many sources of funding for cancer research, but the Cancer Association itself – and I think that is right – claims to be responsible for 60-70 pst. the financing in this area. I also think you'll very much appreciate the signals around this with gift enhancement. The question of vending machines I think we should leave now, because it's probably under another government council, and it wasn't my point to focus on vending machines. But I think the fundamental considerations about how important a volunteer organisation should be in this field, and how to look at the selection of areas of engagement and such things, are quite important, and I could imagine hearing a little about how the Council of State looks at just the division of responsibilities that is now there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1206	Let me first just stress that this with tipping agents of course is not part of my portfolio. But at the same time, that's why the Cancer Association sees that they want less income in the future, and therefore spend less money on cancer research. There is a result of the change in the machines, which is then below the Minister of Culture. The funding of medical research and cancer research currently has many different sources. Cancer association is one of them – non-governmental organisations are one of them. But the Research Council, universities and colleges, the business community and not least the institutes and, perhaps most importantly, the hospitals are part of this. This means that coordinating a field as diverse and comprehensive as a disease as cancer is is very demanding. Therefore, the work undertaken by the Research Council will provide us with better indications as to whether the resources can be used better – if we can do this in a different, better and more accurate way than we do today. That means I am attending this document from the Research Council with great interest, and it will probably also be interested here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1213	I thank you again for the answer, because I had basically intended to encourage the Council of State to start such a review. Then I realize it's already going on. I think there might be a lot of synergy to gain by getting a total overview of the area. It can also prevent duplication of work in different fields, and it will also focus on getting the right priority between the different areas of this type of research. We certainly come back to this with machines in other contexts – the extent to which the source of income is lost for the Cancer Association. They have done a brilliant job, as the Council of State says, and it is important not to lose focus in this area. The question is whether the policy document that the Research Council will then arrive at will also be submitted to Stortinget, so that we can look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1222	This policy document will, of course, be public and accessible for public debate, but it will have to be addressed by us, not least in cooperation with the Minister of Health and Welfare and perhaps other ministers too, in order to have this coordinating effect, which is the whole purpose of this. Then we have to always consider how this comes back to Stortinget. That this will be a document which the representative Gundersen will also have the opportunity to see and have a point of view in the public debate is quite obvious, and then we have to have the opportunity to see in what form we are coming back. But I feel pretty sure that if we don't get to Stortinget with it, Stortinget will somehow want to get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1229	So we go back to question 1. This question, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister of Finance, has been transferred to the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Inclusion who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1239	I then have a question for the Minister of Labour and Inclusion: ‘The introduction of a differentiated employer’s fee, now with the exception of the cities of Tromsø and Bodø, has resulted in a total increase of 2 million in the fees of the management companies Tromsprodukt AS in Tromsø and Bodø Industri AS in Bodø. kr per. years. This is very serious for enterprises with small margins which pursue reintroduction and vocational qualification for a total of 600 persons. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the changed situation does not compromise the provision of assistance to disabled persons with a high need for assistance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1248	First of all, let me say that the Government considers it an important task for workers with high and complex assistance needs to be guaranteed appropriate measures involving more organised and comprehensive follow-up and training. Attractors are a suitable offer in this way. With regard to the two recruitment companies in Bodø and Tromsø, they – as the questioner says – have received a slightly higher employer tax rate in 2007 compared to the rates previously applicable. The higher rate in relation to the rest of the country is based on the fact that Tromsø and Bodø have had a high population growth in the last ten years, which in itself is positive. The management companies as well as other enterprises should initially relate to the general framework conditions laid down for business. This also applies to such an important framework condition as the rates for the employer’s contribution. However, I understand that during a transitional period there may be a need to compensate the companies in Tromsø and Bodø for the introduction of this fee conversion, in order to ensure the best possible offer to the disabled. I have therefore, in letters to the Labour and Welfare Directorate of today, asked them to provide compensation for a transitional period of one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1257	Thank you for a positive answer. This means that the Ministry will follow up the support provided by the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion on previous occasions, i.e. in the pre-re-introduction period. I think it's positive, because although I agree with the Council of State that we should follow the general framework conditions for businesses, this is special, and it's very special in the situation we're now in, with a great need for labour and a great need to bring people back to work. We have a force outside of work that's too big. So this is very positive. I have another question for the Council of State – he may be allowed to comment on this first, and then I can take it in the next round.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1264	What is important for me in principle to emphasise is: it is undeniable that the management companies carry out important tasks on behalf of society, and therefore they receive financial support to carry out those tasks. In addition, however, they are also enterprises that live within the living rules of each holding and they must be operated financially well in order to be able to move on. We have no tradition in Norway to correct for different framework conditions vis-à-vis management companies, such as: For example, in the eastern part of the European Union, there has been an increase in the number of jobseekers in the eastern part of the EU. a recruitment company in my own home district, Namdalen, which has a different employer’s fee rate. I don't think we can permanently correct for that, but I agree with the questioner that when the transition comes, there may be reason to give companies some time to adapt. The questioner has now contributed to this, by instructing me to the Employment and Welfare Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1271	We agree that the economic framework conditions should be the same. I also think we agree that this is a special situation. I just want to say in the end that I hope that the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Inclusion can contribute to the following: When companies address enquiries that are so far to the wrong address, in this case to the Ministry of Finance, which my question originally went to, which was also the wrong address, it would be okay that the people who addressed themselves – and then I don't think of the undersigned, but of the director of this association, who has met with the department – should not have to go the way about Stortinget's Question Time to be informed that you have turned to the wrong place. That's what I think the Council of State should take along, and maybe change the exact procedures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1278	I notice that and take it with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1283	Then we go to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1290	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: ‘Oil companies retain information on the chemical exposure to which employees have been exposed. This makes it difficult for former oil workers to be accepted for occupational harm and weakens preventive HMS work. The daily newspaper has documented that Statoil has long ensured that 8 out of 25 employees in a turbine department experienced symptoms of MS or MS, and that ConocoPhillips withheld poison information. In the past, state councils have undertaken a review to detect chemical exposure. Has the Council of State now changed its view?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1299	I am well aware of this matter and take it very seriously. That is why I have launched several projects to better elucidate the issues and to assist former oil workers who believe that they are injured as a result of previous chemical exposure. First of all, it is now implementing a project to identify what we know about chemical substances that oil workers have become and become exposed to, what we lack knowledge, and what we need to get more knowledge about. This work is well under way and is carried out in cooperation between the Petroleum Inspectorate, the employers’ side and the employees’ organisations in the petroleum industry. The project shall be completed on 1 June of this year. In addition, the Ministry has granted funds to the Kreftregister for the continuation of an ongoing study on cancer risk and cause-specific mortality among Norwegian offshore employees. The purpose of the study is to assess cancer risks in relation to the working environment, adjusted for lifestyle factors. It is hoped that these measures will contribute to increased knowledge of the state of the work environment and the state of the Norwegian economy. In that case, it will benefit from established social security schemes and ensure that any injured professional oil workers receive the follow-up they require. Furthermore, in the context of the treatment of the HMS notification, the Committee pointed out that it is important to obtain concrete follow-up from medical expertise to those groups that fear the consequences of past exposure to chemicals. We've implemented this. Oil workers can contact their permanent staff, who forward them to an occupational health department for assessment. This shall give oil workers the assistance they need, including in the case of claims for professional damages. The Petroleum Authority has ongoing contact with the companies and has assessed the claims to which the applicant also refers regarding the retention of toxic information. The Authority does not find any basis for these claims but refers to the fact that companies provide high-quality information to the professional medical departments that are to investigate patients and that they make a significant effort to ensure that the information is presented as accurately as possible. This has also been confirmed by the vocational medical departments. I therefore have full confidence in the assessment of the Petroleum Authority. In the light of the wide-ranging measures in this area, to which all the actors concerned have agreed and agreed, and that nothing significant has come new in this matter since St.meld. No 12 for 2005-2006 was presented and addressed, I do not consider it appropriate to take further action, for example: a separate examination of this case, at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1316	I thank you for your answer. As early as 1997, the Oil Directorate received information from a sick oilworker about Statoil’s behaviour in the MS case. At this point, the Oil Directorate was responsible for the working environment on the base. Despite the fact that the information provided could easily have been examined, the Directorate chose to base the Statoil's statement on the matter. They did not carry out their own studies. They dropped the case without even obtaining the documentation offered by the ill oil worker. How does the Council of State assess such a procedure, and to what extent does it consider that this should have implications for the supervisory authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1325	I think it's important now to answer in principle. And I have to say I might be a little surprised at the questioner's own critical approach to the information she's based on. But it's got to be the questioner's challenge, not mine. My starting point is that as the State Council, I have my own oversight in this area, the Petroleum Authority, which, in my opinion, takes on the biggest serious work environment in the sector, both what is today and what has been. So we've, in consultation with Stortinget, laid a loop for how to map the situation, and what to do with it once we've mapped it. I have great confidence in that process, and I have great confidence in the way the Petroleum Authority works. That is the basis for me to believe that we are now on a track where we will only be derailed by a possible new track.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1332	To the Council of State's question of being uncritical, I have to say that I think it is important to see two sides of the same matter. My last supplementary question is that we know that many former oil workers today are struggling with various work-related diseases and plagues. We have to recognise that we did not use sufficient protective equipment in the past and that there was harmful health chemical exposure. The Christian People's Party early called for the development of procedures and systems to ensure that this group, which undoubtedly has specific challenges, receives good follow-up at the NAV offices. I noticed in the first response of the Council of State that he mentioned that you could use the district attorney. My question is whether the Council of State agrees that we need quality assurance procedures to protect this vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1339	Yes, I think it's right to have that angle of incidence. And I think that's exactly what we've been concerned about, by focusing in particular on the situation of people who were in the pioneer period and far beyond the 1970s and 1980s in the oil industry, so that the occupational health departments in all regions are aware of the situation they might be in. That is why we have established procedures for that. So that's exactly the exposure that the query is now expressing, which has been leading the routines that are established. Our experience is that when the occupational health services contact the companies to gain insight into what the patient has been exposed to, they get insight into it. So there's no attempt to keep secret. The occupational health departments themselves say that it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1348	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Children and Gender Equality the following questions: ‘From Christmas to New Year, Block Watne announced in East Agder with the sale of space Christmas apartments on the meadows outside Arendal. In these extensive advertisements, potential buyers were encouraged to decide immediately, i.e.: during the summer, they would have a dishwasher on the purchase. Advertisements contained very favourable rain examples of housing costs. However, it was not stated whether the total price, the pay-down period, or that the calculation examples were based on the freedom to deduct. How does the Council of State assess such marketing?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1357	Purchases of dwellings are usually the largest individual investment made by consumers during their lifetime. It is therefore important to have the best decision-making basis on which the purchaser can rely. One of the most important questions that the purchaser has to consider is whether he or she can afford to pay the dwelling at the price available, and of course whether they can live in it afterwards. Housing must therefore be marketed in such a way that both current and future housing costs are clearly evident. As the questioner refers to, some dwellings are funded with very low deposits and high public debt, so-called low-deposit housing. The common debt is usually non-deductible in the first few years. This provides a low entry ticket, but often high monthly costs. When a instalment is due after a period of time, the total amount of the bribes may become very heavy to bear. Such dwellings are often marketed particularly in relation to young people who are buying their very first dwelling. Dwellings may seem tempting to buy, because it is not necessary to raise such a large personal loan. However, young people have limited experience both in the purchase of housing and in financing, and there are specific marketing requirements, which must not lure young people into buying apartments they cannot afford and which can also be very difficult to sell. The marketing law requires that advertising be neither misleading nor unreasonable. The law will also regulate the marketing of low-income housing. It is the Consumer Ombudsman who enforces the Marketing Act. The ads referred to only have a calculation of monthly housing costs. Such advertising, where only parts of the price picture appear, is likely to be prohibited under the Marketing Act. According to the practice of the Consumer Ombudsman, this includes, inter alia: a assumption that, if a price element is declared, the rest of the elements must also be obtained, including the total price. The real monthly costs must also be stated in the advertisement. The Consumer Ombudsman has placed housing on the market as a priority area and is currently revising the existing guidelines on housing marketing. The Consumer Ombudsman has inter alia: met with housing industry organisations to establish new guidelines on the promotion of housing. The case has been under consultation, and the new guidelines are likely to be developed during the spring. I believe that the Marketing Act will be a good tool to prohibit misleading housing marketing, and I would ask the Consumer Ombudsman to assess the legality of the relevant advertisements.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1372	Thank you very much for a very good and complementary answer. When I signed this case after Christmas, via Agderposten, which is the local view below, representatives from Block Watne in Aust-Agder replied that a seller would be better off if one did not state in the ads what the housing/apartment costs. So it's very clear that this is part of a sales strategy. How does the Council of State assess the type of sales strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1381	There is no doubt that this is about trying to lure, I would say, a special group to buy this type of dwelling. There is no doubt that in the establishment phase, young people have limited opportunities to incur a high level of personal debt. That's why this is going to be the possibility for a lot of people in our society today to have a share in the housing market. This is why it is all the more important that this be done in a clean and proper way, and that the industry act in a way that is serious and real. It's important that we now go through all the sides of the marketing that different real estate agents have. I want to say that the government has recently focused a lot on the real estate industry. We are now going through several aspects of the law, and the Stortinget will have it treated in a short time. We know that there are weaknesses in this system that we have to look closely at. I would also like to say that I am about to put down a sample that will assess the use of condition reports and look at a separate approval scheme for housing tax collectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1388	I would like to give tribute to the Council of State for its commitment to this matter. Governments have both looked at these issues and often addressed them. There is little doubt that the housing market is not as open and transparent as one might wish. Finally, I would like to hear a little about the Council's assessments of the situation of the housing buyers in today's housing market – whether they are secured well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1395	The whole starting point for the Government to have passed the Property Agents Act is that one has seen that there are weaknesses here for those who are going to buy and sell in today's housing market. Therefore, it is important that the authorities go through the law carefully and see if it works optimally in the time we now have. There is no doubt that we have been in a time of a very overheated housing market, especially in our big cities. This means that a lot of complaints have been raised, among others. The Consumer Ombudsman, and the Government believes that we have to take seriously. We have now had a complete review of the law, which will mean that we are getting a very clear improvement in consumer rights in this field. It is important that we have the security that when we buy or sell our home, it should be done in a proper way. This is perhaps the largest single disposal we make economically throughout our lives. We also see that people who have to re-establish themselves have a huge cost. Therefore, it is important that we have the security that the residential transaction is carried out in a quality assurance manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1408	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: «More nurses at Haukeland University Hospital have received cancer due to radiation damage caused to them at work. The Department of Occupational Medicine at the University of Bergen has concluded that eight of the nurses are likely to have cancer caused by the working environment at the department in which they worked. This is very worrying. We cannot be sure whether similar hazardous equipment or bad safety procedures have occurred or are still in use in other hospitals. What will the Council of State do to figure this out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1417	The relationship between exposure to X-ray and risk of cancer is well known and based on extensive research and experience over many decades. Knowledge is well documented in international scientific literature, as the questioner is also very familiar with. There are internationally recommended maximum levels for the extent to which radiation from professional exposure may receive within one year, and these are set in Norwegian regulations. The State's radiation protection system has been continuously monitoring occupational exposure since 1957, and this includes approx. 6 500 workers — most naturally in the health sector. The monitoring shows that employees in Norwegian hospitals generally do not receive radiation doses exceeding the recommended maximum levels. The straw supplier considers it generally safe to work with X-rays in the Norwegian health care system, but it is important that workers have good knowledge of radiation protection when using such devices, both for their own protection and in order to ensure radiation protection for patients. Registered doses of radiation at the heart department of Haukeland University Hospital have been reviewed over the last 15 years, and they show, according to the information I have received, expected values for nurses. In general, doctors at the department received slightly higher radiation doses than the nurses. This can be explained by the fact that they are mainly closer to the source of radiation during the interventions. The radiation doses at this department, as I have become aware of it, have not been significantly different from the doses measured at corresponding departments. Employees working on X-rays in the 1980s and 1990s had so-called radiation dosimeters which measured possible excessive radiation values. Blood samples were also taken regularly by the employees. Neither radiation doses nor blood samples show abnormal findings. The State Radiation Protection Agency has carried out two inspections at the Heart Department of Haukeland University Hospital since 2000. These have revealed some inappropriate x-ray equipment and, in part, limited competence in radiation protection procedures. However, this is not considered to be significant and serious enough to pose a significant additional risk to staff. Apparatus deviations have now been established and training measures have been implemented. I would like to inform you that the State Radiation Protection Agency has invited representatives from the Norwegian Nursing Association and Haukeland University Hospital to a meeting in Strålevernet on Thursday 1 February, i.e. tomorrow. At this meeting, the Straw Liver will provide information on the radiation protection legislation and the ongoing approval process of its health companies and X-ray institutes. The supervision of the Straw liver at the Heart Department will also be explained. Furthermore, the radiation doses that employees may have received and the relationship between the dose and the risk of cancer due to X-rays will be briefed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1432	I thank you for your answer. I think it is very positive that tomorrow you should already have a meeting with it connected, among other things. organises most nurses – that's good. What I am asking, however, is simply what the condition is like in other hospitals and in other healthcare companies. In fact, in the last report of 2005, health Bergen in the survey carried out does not differ negatively in the supervision of similar conditions and related consequences of other health establishments. My question is also whether it is not then necessary to carry out the same review with other healthcare companies that has actually been done at Health Bergen, and to correct the errors that are there, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1439	Firstly, it is important to establish that we have a good regulatory framework for radiation protection in Norway. That legislation was also updated and revised in 2000, with new legislation and regulations with effect from 2004. It represented some tightening demands on the business and imposes a clear responsibility on them for radiation protection. It shall be fully implemented by 2008. Clearly, the government is following these developments very closely. I have no background per. Today, based on the knowledge I now have, to say that this is a big problem across the country. Rather, on the contrary, we have the impression that this works pretty well. But I'm very concerned that we make sure that the laws and regulations that apply are actually followed, that the appliances are safe enough, and that the training of the employees is also good enough. Therefore, in the first place, I await the meeting that is announced, and that will be tomorrow, to hear what comes out of it, before I decide how we will continue to follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1446	It is true that new legislation was introduced in 2000. But the two investigations after that have just shown that, among other things. had insufficient coverage of personnel, and there were too few radiographs to operate the equipment properly. There was also a lack of classification and labelling of the workplace. And as the Council of State was in it, there was some lack of training — including the training of nurses serving the mobile x-rays. I'm still a little worried about the other health companies, where maybe you haven't had the same review that you've had at Haukeland University Hospital. So I'm going to ask the Council of State – which I at least perceived as being going to follow this – to get a brief report from the meeting tomorrow and listen very carefully to the Norwegian Nurses' Association, which will often also receive a message of concern from some members who are unsure of these statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1451	First of all, I realize that people get insecure when they read that kind of look-up, and they can get scared. But at least it's okay to say what's right, according to the information I've received from professionals, that there's no direct connection between the devices and radiation and what was disease. But we're going to take seriously the reports that are coming and that the representative Davøy here refers to, and the fact that we have knowledge that there is something varying in terms of training, also to a certain extent in terms of appliances. I want to get a report on what has happened, of course, after the meeting that will be tomorrow, and I want to have a dialogue with the State Radiation Protection Agency, which is responsible for ensuring that this is followed. And to the extent that it is desirable, of course, I would like to listen to both Norwegian Nursing Associations and others. Because it shouldn't be that people should be insecure when they go to work. We need to be absolutely safe. As of today, there is no reason for any particular concern about this. But we're going to follow it carefully, so people don't worry unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1467	This question has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1474	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Health: ‘After recent media signals, health care businesses have to cut more than DKK 3 billion this year. This will have to hit patients over longer waiting and shorter bedtime. What changes to the patient offer have now been adopted or planned to be implemented in 2007, related to health business budgets and plans in 2007?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1483	Never before have hospitals had as much money available as they have now, and never before have we treated so many patients. That's good. There has been a real growth in this sector in the period from 2002 and it has not been cut as such. It may be cut in relation to what has been desirable, but not cut in the usual activity. The claim that health businesses must cut more than DKK 3 billion per year is linked to the fact that enterprises are now in a budgetary process for 2007. A cut, so-called, of DKK 3 billion must be related to that process, including the submitted wishes and proposals for 2007. That means there's no reality in that we're talking about a $3 billion cut. Having said that, I nevertheless see – like the representative Molvær Grimstad – that there are significant challenges for several hospitals. There's no doubt about it. I am aware that the demand for budgetary balance is demanding, and I will, of course, follow developments very closely. I can also state that four of the five regional health establishments have not yet completed the budgetary procedure until final budgetary decisions – they have not completed their process. The Ministry of Health’s mission documents to the regional health businesses for 2007 were sent out on 9 January this year. These documents indicate the appropriations allocated to each health region and to each regional health undertaking and the requirements imposed on them during the current year. The mission documents are, of course, based on the budget decisions of the Storting. In these mission documents, the Ministry is proposing to continue its activity at about the same high level of activity as last year. Furthermore, mental health protection and multi-disciplinary specialised treatment for drug addicts must have a stronger growth than somatic treatment when measuring expenditure. Good migration and migration processes are central to meeting the budgetary challenges facing health businesses – it is not just a question of the size of the budget framework. Let me therefore also highlight issues that need to be at the heart of meeting the budgetary and migration challenges. In this sector, we know that there is a continuous supply of new medical and technological knowledge. Medical truths are becoming shorter and shorter, and information technologies and knowledge about ways to organise services are also changing. It is therefore important that there are migration processes in which health businesses review their activities to see if they can organise their activities in new and better ways. In this context, measures can be developed that provide both better professional patient treatment and are economically more rational. I would like to highlight the interaction actions between the municipality of Trondheim and St. Olav's Hospital as an example of a long-term conversion work that, according to Health Mid-Norway's information, now bears fruits in the form of shorter bedtime and fewer corridor Asiatic units at the hospital. Medically-treated patients receive a better offer through specialised hospitals – instead of being longer than is necessary in hospitals – where the hospital and the municipality cooperate to provide patients with rehabilitation and the opportunity to recover from hospitalisation. This is just one example of migration measures that benefit patients and that do not harm patients in a negative way. In addition, I would like to improve the offer to some patient groups, such as: Mentally ill and drug addicts, and an additional effort is needed to put in place comprehensive services and services for the sick elderly. It also implies that hospital services are reviewing their activities and reversing their activities. I see it as important to support the positive migration measures in healthcare. With that in mind, I have put a constant pressure on putting in place good interaction systems. We know there are major challenges in the relationship between hospitals and municipalities in some areas. I follow up on the development of local hospitals both through investigation work and through instructions in the mission documents of regional health companies. Furthermore, I am helping to improve the quality of the entire service by working these days to put in place the new Quality and Prioritisation Board – to mention some measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1502	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I am aware that many conversion processes are taking place and that there is a great deal of positive progress in the health sector. However, I have seen from the media that many health professionals have gone out and told me about the severe cuts they have to make in order to get the budget to go around, and to keep the treatment capacity. For Health Sunnmare, there will be savings requirements of at least 70 million in 2007. NOK and cancellation of at least 33 added. At the Volda Hospital, it is decided to close the maternity ward for four weeks until summer. This has not happened before. And I know that Health West at the same time is planning summer closures at the birth ward in Nordfjordeid. In that case, there will be no provision between Förde and Ålesund. As a result, an action group has become ready for a collection action where we collect money for four weeks’ operation – and offer the board of Health Sunnmare money. I think it is important that the government now has to answer for the consequences of its policy. Is it such that she here accepts to reduce health supply and that private collection actions should provide a good supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1513	It is difficult for me to comment on the individual matters in particular, because I am not aware of each of the issues raised by the representative here. Clearly, it is demanding for some health businesses. I'm not going to substantiate that in any way. But at the same time it must also be allowed to say that it is a fact that we have never used that much money. And we're going to keep doing that. I see that there is a difference between some hospitals in the way they organize and use the money. I don't mean in the sense that it should affect patients, or that employees should run faster, but in the sense of finding measures that are actually better for the patient. Here I see that some hospitals do it in a wiser way than other hospitals. And we also have to be concerned – in addition to, of course, constantly giving more money – about how they spend the money they actually get at their disposal. Then I would like to emphasise again: four out of five health companies have not completed their budgetary process, so it is quite certain that there will not be any of the proposals that are now being presented in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1524	I would like to thank you for your answer. On a national basis, it is said that many hundreds are being abandoned, that it is not possible to reduce the supply of treatment and care, that hospital services have been disconnected or severely reduced, and that waiting lists will increase. Health professionals have a major challenge. But what is important is that the responsibility of the Government is superior, so that one does not shift responsibility to healthcare professionals and believes that only by streamlining and rationalising will one achieve it. There is a lot of health use, but at the same time we know that costs are increasing, and that one can provide more than one treatment. Will the Council of State come back into the revised national budget with some more means, so that one avoids the drastic cuts that have been signaled in the media, and the negative consequences it will have for the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1535	The representative of Molvær Grimstad knows that I can't say anything about coming budgets, for so long she's been in this game herself. But the government is, of course, concerned with all aspects of our healthcare system, and we need to make sure that we get good enough treatment throughout the country. That's the basic thing, and the treatment is of good quality. Then we have put forward in our draft budget, to which we have come in agreement here in Stortingen, with the historically high allocation proposal we presented to the Stortingen, and which was adopted, that we can continue the activity at about the same level next year. In this area, as in most other areas, we have to have two thoughts in our head at once. One is money, and the other is organizing us for the benefit of the patient. There's a lot of positive going on here. But again: I do not underestimate that it is demanding, and it is clear that I am following that development very closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-31.ana.ud49e1542	So the ordinary Questionnaire is over. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
