ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e62	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e71	A well-developed and efficient transport network is particularly important for the competitiveness of industry, for value creation and for employment. The main weight of the population and industry is located near the coast, and maritime transport is therefore important in the Norwegian transport system. A competitive maritime transport service shall meet the needs of its owners and passengers for transport services. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the development of ports as a good hub for domestic and international transport. In order to avoid terrorist attacks against international shipping, the IMO, the United Nations Maritime Organisation, will establish in December 2002 a new international code on ship security and preparedness for terrorism on international voyages and for ports receiving these ships. The EU followed up with a regulation, and Norway is obliged to implement EU legislation in this area. The Regulation was adopted in Norwegian law in 2004. The EU has sought additional terrorist protection of ports in relation to its IMO legislation and has therefore introduced new directives. The rules are applied to major parts of ports and regulate inspections of security measures. And once again, Norway has to do what the EU has said. Where the majority of Norway's exports and imports are concerned, a sea uses as a transport route. Parallel legislation is necessary to ensure access to foreign ports for vessels coming from Norwegian ports. Therefore, it is crucial for Norwegian industry development that own ships and ports have a preparedness for terrorism and security that is in line with what our trading partners have. The consequences of an event related to ships and aeroplanes are potentially so serious that certain protective measures are necessary. However, I am not overconfident that the additional extension of this type of action in the transport sector is part of a desired social development. I am not inexorably positive that we are introducing terrorist and security routines far beyond the proportions of Norwegian relations. But that fight we have to fight on an international arena, like that. Our Minister for Transport did when she met her colleagues from other European countries in Bulgaria last week. At that time, the State Council of Navarsete took up security controls at airports, with the assumption that she would like to stop even more comprehensive security measures. We also need to have a discussion about the level of safety of international shipping in the international arena, prior to the decisions of international bodies. Once the directives are adopted, as they are in connection with this proposition, we have little more to do than to take the rules into the new right and try to interpret them as positively as possible. In addition to reducing the risk of terrorist attacks, the security measures put in place could have a positive impact on HMS and on the overall security of ports. The cost of introducing security measures and preparedness for terrorism in ports and on ships is substantial and, in line with the current funding principle, it is those who benefit from the ports that listen to pay. Similar liabilities in the vast majority of EU Member States. Several of the hearings of the new legal text express dissatisfaction that users should finance these costs. I am busy keeping the regulatory costs as low as possible in relation to international obligations. In the interests of competitiveness of maritime transport, it is important that the fee and port charges do not exceed what is necessary. It can be, for example, I am thinking about the police and customs services. In our main export ports there is already a control apparatus. Today, the customs office has added, control halls, equipment and good control skills that should be used, so as to ensure that we get the lowest possible costs. In these words, I believe that the proposed change in the law on ports and waters will be confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e105	We are not unknown about dealing with these kinds of issues in the Norwegian metropolitan area. I want to commend the case rapporteur for a good report, and I also want to commend the case rapporteur for statements such as that here we have to do as the European Union has said. It is clear and clear that the EU has been closest to the acquis in relation to what was the IMO's starting point. It is then important that the Norwegian Government and the Norwegian Government have thorough assessments of the need for the introduction of additional terrorist preparedness and security measures. An overall committee, and it is also apparent from the suspension, is now in doubt that an extension of the preparedness for terrorism and security measures is a desirable development in the Norwegian community. I have also allowed myself to praise the Council of State for taking the initiative in terms of the security and security controls that are being applied at Norwegian airports now, which have almost gone off the hinges. Where that, I kept saying, naturally is a disagreement, concerns funding. Many people have asked questions about its consequences, and many have asked questions about whether these are the right measures for the ports that we have, and especially for those ports that may have few calls. The Progress Party believes, like all the other parties, that when it comes to securing itself against terrorism, or, as it is called, asymmetric warfare, here comes a decision that is trampled down on business and institutions, on something that is a national responsibility. In this respect, we also have a proposal in the position – and I allow myself to promote it now – where we ask the Government to establish a mechanism in which the state has at least a co-financing responsibility. Because when our ports are ordered to do this, it is done on the basis of national considerations and on the basis of an overall societal foundation, in order to secure itself against terrorist attacks. We are a little uncertain, as is also stated in the vote, about how this will turn out in terms of distortions of competition and how these costs will be borne by the different ports. I note that the case rapporteur says that these additional security measures are financed by the ports themselves in EU countries. I ask the Council of State to confirm or cancel that it is correct. In view of my small insight into this, individual countries have entered into co-financing with regard to the protection against terrorism and that kind of thing. I think it's important that we get clarity on that. It will, of course, be essential for us to look more positively at state co-financing in relation to that type of development. As I said, we all agree that safety and preparedness are important in both shipping and aviation. The question is, what's next? I imagine that there will also be some directives in relation to the protection of the railways and other modes of transport, and therefore it is important that we have increased focus on the negative we see in Norwegian society in terms of the type of security and control we have. Many people now ask questions about this, whether it's almost a parody, and whether there's actually only someone who's looking for income in relation to the new contractions that are coming. This I know that the government has in focus, at least the Minister of Transport has put it in focus, and I hope the Council of State that is present here also has the same starting point for our ports and shipping.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e124	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e127	The right supports the proposed legislative changes. It is important that Norway takes its obligations seriously in the fight against terrorism, or possibly terrorism. It is clear that this applies to a great many ports. 220 ports need to implement several remedial measures in order to meet the requirements that have now been set up. The proposition says that one can assume that there will be at least 6 to 10 million. kr per. port, in addition, costs are incurred. A simple calculation is that at least there will be a couple of billion dollars that will have to be invested to put in place the insurance regime to which it is now added. What we're responding to is that all the costs should be passed on to the users. The representative Sandberg was in on it. I am afraid that the fees will be so high that shipping will be hit, and that road transport will become more competitive at the expense of the ports. This is contrary to the environmental objectives that we otherwise set ourselves in relation to both climate and reducing the pressure on already congested roads. We do not want any further transport on the road. In our opinion, one, as the rapporteur points out, must fight in the international arena to get a sensible policy in this area. But, and it's a big but, the costs shouldn't just be passed on to the users. When addressing the Communication on Social Security and Vulnerability, the Vulnerability Communication, it was a clear premise that improving social security was primarily a public responsibility. Then I'm a little in doubt about something, and I'm asking the Council of State to answer that. It is stated in the proposition that, in line with the current financing principle for maritime infrastructure, it is foreseen that the hedging measures are paid by users. It's not an EU directive, is it? That's the Norwegian funding model, isn't it? This is where I believe that one might get an appeal to the Government – because that's not the cost we're dealing with now, it's the law changes – to look at the funding models here, so that one doesn't end up in a situation where smaller ports get a disproportionate burden, and where users are burdened all of it, without one saying that it has helped to promote more environmentally friendly development by getting more of the freight across the sea. I'm asking the government to consider taking a greater share of the cost of the government budget. We support the changes in the laws. I don't need to get out of the EU or anyone else for the job they're doing, but this is probably more of a heartbreak: if we're in the EU, what we could have affected this before the decisions came here to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e146	Maritime and rail transport is a major source of social and environmental benefits. So we have a common goal of moving more transport from the roads and onto the track and the sea. It's a measure that the sitting government has, and it was a measure that the previous government had, and that we stand together in the Storting. What do we have to do to reach the goal, or at least move in the right direction? It's a complex question. A wrong answer is at least here to make the transport to sea more expensive, which will be the result of the treatment that we have today. That's why it's a very important emphasis the majority of the committee does, when we say that «in the interests of competitiveness of maritime transport, it is important that the fee levied by the Coastal Agency and port charges should not exceed what is necessary». What makes this not so simple is the fact that the threat of terrorism exists, and we need to think about social security and deal with the threats of prevention and preparedness. This applies to all sectors of society, including our ports and shipping. We absolutely need to introduce comprehensive security measures, for the sake of security and because it is crucial for Norwegian industry development that Norwegian ports and ships have the same level of security as our trading partners have. It is such that the tasks of the Coastal Agency are largely financed by users, and it is in line with the current financing principle for maritime infrastructure when security and security measures in ports are paid by the users of the infrastructure. But it was an interesting question that the representative of Greece asked the Minister, whether these are EU requirements. We will also put that question behind us and ask the Minister to answer. Nevertheless, we would point out that there is reason to fear high fees, and that they will hit shipping and weaken competitiveness. Therefore, it is essential to put in place the long-reported review of charges and charges in this sector. We waited for that under the previous government, and we are waiting for that under the current government. We have to prevent maritime transport from becoming of little interest because of the financial burden that we are gradually putting on it. Finally, we must ensure that coastal traffic does not suffer, contrary to our common objectives of increased maritime and rail transport and less road transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e164	Several serious terrorist attacks around the world have focused attention on social security, and that is what lies behind the introduction of the anti-terrorism legislation in the maritime sector. There is a need for international security measures and preparedness for terrorism throughout the transport chain and all types of transport, and the introduction of such international security standards is a subject of great international attention. Norway is closely linked to international markets and logistics and transport solutions. A very high proportion of our exports and imports use the sea as a transport route. The costs of introducing security measures and preparedness for terrorism in ports and on ships are, as is well known, extensive and the legislation is undoubtedly a challenge for maritime transport. However, both society and business interests depend on well-functioning international maritime relations, and it is therefore essential for Norwegian social and economic development that own ships and ports have a preparedness for terrorism and security that is in line with what our trading partners have. Ports which do not implement the legislation will lose calls for international traffic, with the negative consequences it will have locally and nationally. Then it has been pointed out from several teams that additional security measures are not necessarily part of desirable social development. I fully agree with that. On the other hand, the need and scope of such rules depend on the level of threat involved. This is a reality that Norway too has to deal with. Several have talked about the funding principle. In line with the current financing principle for maritime infrastructure, port security and security measures will be paid by the users of the infrastructure. The European Commission has carried out an evaluation of this, and it shows that the corresponding principle applies to almost all EU Member States. In addition, the measures introduced in the ports must be seen as part of the general responsibility for the protection of own activities and therefore it is not proposed to grant State resources for the implementation of the rules. The rules on terrorist protection entail new tasks beyond the traditional responsibilities of both police and other security authorities. The Coastal Station is a state-owned port state, responsible for security measures and preparedness for terrorism in ports. The task of the coastal works is to verify that ports draw up safety plans and take action according to the plan. In addition, the implementation of EU legislation shall be inspected by ESA in the EFTA countries. The Coastal Agency has so far carried out re-priorities of tasks and resources in order to carry out the tasks of authority arising from the International Code of Terrorism Protection. These tasks are ongoing and the introduction of the Port Security Directive now requires more permanent organisational changes and increased resources. And that's why the department will now try to cover its expenses through a fee, which is charged to the ports covered by the legislation. In this context, I would like to stress that I will follow very closely the way the legislation is implemented and enforced, so that the cost side neither in the Coastal Works nor in the ports is higher than what is absolutely necessary. The Progress Party and the Right are concerned with the private initiative in their comments. Then I would like to comment on it by saying that the Coastal Agency has the competence to approve private companies called RSOs, and it stands for Recognized Security Organisations. They can both produce security analyses and security plans on behalf of ports, and ports can choose which RSOs they want to use. The action to be taken in each port will vary and will depend on the outcome of the vulnerability analysis. It is also the case that a number of ports will already be sufficiently secured as a result of the new provisions and are therefore not affected by what we are deciding here today. Finally, I would like to stress that the structure of charges and charges is an important instrument of transport policy and has a major impact on the distribution between modes of transport. Therefore, the Government is now carrying out an overall assessment of all fees in the maritime transport sector in order to enable maritime transport to compete in line with land transport. The objective is to increase the cost to society of sending goods by ship, truck or train using the various transport solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e186	Now, at least in part, the Council of State has made it clear that it is a guiding principle in the EU that all costs are passed on to the ports themselves. However, there is nothing to prevent Norwegian authorities from choosing a slightly different line if they consider it necessary. I ask for an answer to that question. The second is that, on the part of the majority, there is a call for the minimum level of the levy to be imposed on the Coastal Works in the implementation of these measures. I guess that's good. It is also good to look carefully at the entire charging side of maritime transport in order to eliminate bias or mistreatment. But the big cost is beyond that. After all, the large cost is the investment from the ports to be safe enough, and it is significant. As the representative of Greece said, it could be several billion dollars. That such large investments will result in increased costs for users of maritime transport is a concern that both the Government and the Council of State should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e193	As for what goes on state co-financing, I just want to point out what I said in my post. The way we deal with this in Norway is in line with what the EU countries are doing. We have also had contact with the other Nordic countries, and they put themselves on the same model. It is important in this matter to ensure that our maritime transport services have the same competitive conditions as maritime transport in the other countries. I believe that the proposals we have put forward here ensure this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e199	I feel that there is still a little bit of ambiguity around what is the principle of funding. I hope that the Council of State now distinguishes between what is involved in operating and collecting fees, and what is being made a requirement and a requirement to the ports with regard to investment, and that it is in agreement with what the EU is doing. This is where I have received other information, which says that the EU is directly involved in investment aid to ports in the different EU countries in relation to securing itself. I still feel that there is some uncertainty about this, so I would ask the Council of State to possibly come back to the Committee in an appropriate way, in the form of letters, and quality assurance whether what the Council of State now highlights in the debate is right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e206	I am not aware that the EU has a different regime for this from what Norway has. The European Commission is now developing a new common port policy. It is a work that Norway follows closely. If there are policy changes that also cover this area, it is clear that, first of all, we will have a dialogue with the European Commission on the changes that are coming. Then, on the part of the Government, we will continue to work so that our maritime transport can compete in the same way as maritime transport in the European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e211	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 592]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e229	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e245	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e254	Not rarely do people feel that they can't get tickets for a cultural event they want to attend. But all hope doesn't have to be out. However, tickets may be available on the Internet or in the vicinity of the event. These are tickets that are sold several times, black-and-white stamps on the people's mouth. _Other Organiser Norwegian Rock Federation may suggest that such an Internet hall is increasing to an extent. Since tickets are normally owned documents, this is not illegal, although in many cases the price is higher than it was when the ticket was first translated. It is, however, that the sale is prohibited if the buyer is deliberately carried behind the light. However, there is some dissatisfaction specifically with the Internet hall of this type, because the buyer enters into a purchase agreement without knowing that it is a resale, and without knowing what the ticket cost on the first transaction. On the organiser's side, there is a dissatisfaction that when buying tickets for resale, it is difficult to see the real interest in the event. Extensive resale of pre-service tickets increases the threshold for participation in cultural events for low-income people. The majority of the committee sees today's legislative proposals as a tourniquet to prevent extensive resale of tickets at a higher price than the organiser has seen. It must be an objective that most of the revenues associated with cultural events go to just culture and pay off the efforts made prior to the event by professionals and volunteers in several stages, and not to people in a grey market who want to make profit from buying and selling tickets with great foresight. Such a ban will make it easier for organisers to see the real demand and interest for the event. The prohibition applies only to forwarding services and thus does not require the organiser to enter into agreements with the commissioner to resell tickets for an event. Organizers have the ability to issue tickets for the event at the entrance, set ceilings on how many tickets a buyer can buy, or carry out random sampling, thus reducing the black market. This will, however, in many respects impose additional costs on the organiser. Many organisers, therefore, for obvious reasons, do not give priority to this type of action. The majority of the Committee is behind the legislative proposal. One does not currently consider that it is necessary to attach criminal sanctions to the ban. This may be appreciated if the prohibition has worked for some time. The minority in the Committee, the Right Party and the Advance Party, have a different view, and I expect representatives of these parties to do something about it. Finally, for our part, we often experience in this house that the EEA Agreements are giving strong leadership to our national legal design and prevent us from using solutions that both the Center Party and other party mein would be solutions to the best interests of the inhabitants of this country. We'll be glad that's not the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e275	This is not an immediate simple matter. As we know, we also treated this a few years ago, when it was concluded that black exchange sales would not be banned. The promotion party is concerned that different cultural offers should be offered to all. We believe that it is gross and unfortunate if the most lucrative arrangements are sold out in 20 minutes, not to individuals, but to large buyers who sell the tickets at an excess price, or the purchaser's price that someone would call it. The party to the progress is nevertheless of the opinion that it should be the responsibility of the organisers to introduce measures against such secondary trade. Small and simple grips are possible, such as: not to sell more than a given number of tickets per. person. You can also, even if it costs something more, issue tickets by name. Personal presence or one sales office is also an option. These options are practised around Europe, where I have also been to concerts, where it has been relatively straightforward. I am, as I said, even an avid concertist, and I have with a few exceptions managed to buy a ticket at normal prices, either via telephone or via the Internet. I would just like to draw the case rapporteur's attention to the fact that ordinary tickets are also sold on the Internet. You could imagine from his post that it was just black exchange trading you were using on the Internet, but that's not the case. We can hardly see how the Government has intended to enforce this proposed ban. Should there be police present at all events that will arrest those who sell overpriced, and fine them? Will not such use of severely limited police resources be at the expense of a wide range of higher priority tasks? Should the public be responsible for the enforcement of this law? And what are the consequences? I don't think either of us can just see and answer that right here and now. As I said, we see negative features of what is happening today in the case of merchanting. Nevertheless, this is regulated by the Sale of Goods Act and misleading advertising in the case of resales, for example. via the Internet, should be regulated by the Marketing Act. In conclusion, therefore, I would like to stress – even as the case rapporteur pointed out – that the Progress Party does not support this law, where there is nothing but a ban, and where proposals for penalties are completely absent. Then we're convinced that the organizers can do this task better on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e292	The right-hand side also sees that there are unfortunate aspects to the further marketing of tickets that often occur during highly sought events. However, whether this problem is so big that it should be subject to its own legislation, and in the natural extension of it, to the use of public resources within police and consumer authorities, we are sceptical about it. The turnover takes place between adults, responsible people who know well what they're doing. In the Right's view, this is outside the State's remit. The right, like the Progress Party, believes that there are a lot of moves that the organizers can take to counter the black market trade. We don't think you can completely prevent it, and we think it's part of it too – we should say – ‘culture’, which lies around the special arrangement of large concerts, with which we probably have to live. The bill we have received is very brief, and it does not sanction those who have to break it. We don't think that's going to have any significant effect on black market sales. We think it'll find new ways. As seen, the law appears to be a symbol law in many ways. So we're essentially sceptical about filling in the lawbook. Having opinions about things is nice, but it's not always that you have to make it appear in the form of a legal text. I think we've also seen other examples of that in recent times. To the representative Sande, i.e. the case rapporteur, I would like to say that I am very uncertain as to whether the profits of the organisers will decrease. I think that the organizers initially price their tickets at a level where they think they should be lying. I don't think organizers of big rock concerts are priceing themselves lower, but the price level they're applying will be an overall assessment where the risk factor might make a mistake between what's the selling price, and what some would be willing to pay on the black exchange. It's because as an organizer, you're always excited about how things will go. You don't always know what that would look like. So briefly summarized: we believe that the problem is simply too small for it to be necessary to regulate it. We do not think it is right to initiate such a process on the basis of the prioritisation of funds that had to go to the police and consumer authorities. We don't think that's going to have any special effect. We also don't think that the organizers will make any more money on such a law. It will appear in many ways as a symbol law, to which we are skeptical. So, on the basis of an overall assessment, the Right has then come to the conclusion that the proposal presented will not be supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e305	We in SV are very pleased that the fight against black market trade is now becoming a reality, that we are getting a law ban on illegal ticket sales that the police can demonstrate in their order service, that it can be charged and can be stopped. For SV, there is a final recognition that black exchange trading is a real problem. We have many support players among artists, organisers and consumers who support the proposal. A proposal for black market sales was first promoted on 11 June 2003. We are very pleased with the work that has been done here by the Council of States Trond Giske and the Government, and with the proposal as it appears today. It is a consumer-friendly proposal, which will play a role in people's everyday lives, a role for those who want to participate in popular cultural and sporting events. The extent to which the police will intervene is based on the resource priorities of the police. I just want to point out here that in connection with a lot of the big events, like, for example. The Quart Festival and the Øya Festival, it's not rare that the police are anywhere near, patrolling the area because there's also stuffing and specking involved, or because people use other things. It makes it possible for the police to take advantage of the opportunity we are now given to charge what involves black market sales. We do not consider it necessary to attach sanctions to the ban now. In addition, the placing on the market of illicit ticket sales could be prohibited by the Consumer Ombudsman. An infringement of the decision of the Consumer Ombudsman may be penalised by the fact that the offender has to pay a periodic penalty payment. So we're going to do something about what's important in relation to the black market announcement. Such advertising is therefore completely impossible to do with this proposal. The bill is based on a similar law in Denmark with good results. There has been a strong growth in black market trade in tickets for the requested sporting and cultural events, where tickets are sold several times. The resale takes place both in connection with events and after pre-advertising in newspapers and on the Internet. In particular, tickets distributed through the Internet have been widely dissatisfied, where tickets have often had a significantly higher sales volume than the ticket initially cost. To underline this with your own experiences: it was a certain event when Brann played the cup finale against Lyn. It was a big-time representative, an engaged mountainer, who was a little bit busy getting tickets – it wasn't me, because I was a member of the sports club Firen, so I got an offer for tickets – and he saw that in all the places it was advertised Firen tickets to Ullevål, there were people who milked the market by sucking out gold-thirsty mountainers in front of that final. He got a ticket in a legal way. It's important to underline. But now it's much harder, not to say impossible, for black market owners to run this business in advance. There are many mountainers who will be happy for the next time Fire comes to the Cup Final, or there may be Oslo citizens who will be happy for the next time Vålerenga comes to the Cup Final. When SV first promoted the proposal, we received broad support from most of the major actors – such as artists, organisers, consumers – in culture and sport. An essential point of this law is that organisers should be left with as much profit as possible from the real turnover of the sale of tickets and that a ban on the resale of tickets at a higher price than that to which the organisers refer should be prevented. Another important point is that it is unreasonable that the largest and most popular events should only be reserved for those with the strongest economy, because that is precisely what the objective is, that there should be a real opportunity for everyone to experience such scarcity. It becomes easier with such a law as this. So I would like to tell a passerby that it is not forbidden to sell tickets on at the organiser's price. If you burn in with tickets, you should be able to sell them on at the organizer's price, but you don't have the right to shoes on other people who are desperately trying to get into a Bruce Springsteen concert or anywhere else. I think this will be an effective proposal. If we see that this is a proposal that does not work as intended, the Minister of Culture and the rest of us who have worked on this for a number of years, obviously going to discuss and re-examine the proposals. But I have faith that this law should be able to stop many people who have earned quite well with money on this. I myself have had a discussion every year about black exchange with the same man at the Quart Festival. I am pleased that I can now come back and tell him that what he is doing is actually not allowed, and that the police can make sure that he can no longer run his business. It's going to feel good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e336	Festival summer is approaching and with it also black market sales of tickets. Norsk Rockförbund reports that black market sales are an increasing problem. A prerequisite for today's black market problem is that there are buyers who are willing to pay a higher price than the nominal one. This is a consequence of the imbalance in the market for popular cultural and sporting events. Every year, a large amount of money is transferred from the consumer collective, more specifically the ticket buyers, to a small number of individuals or companies operating organised black market sales. This happens without the buyer getting anything more than they would otherwise have received, namely an entrance ticket to a concert or sports event. I find it difficult to see that there is some reason why we in Norway should accept that a few actors should destroy the market for popular cultural services. The companies earn huge sums at the expense of a large number of cultural and sports-interested people. Black-exchange activities have only negative effects. Organizers also receive lower revenues than they would otherwise have received. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the problem should be solved by a ban on black market activities. We're glad that the ban will come. We believe that a ban will be an important first step in the fight to stop this business. A ban will hamper the activities of the black stock exchange itself, which will no longer be open. In addition, the threat of penalties is expected to have a clear preventative effect. The need for a ban on the sale of black market tickets must be seen in the light of the general developments in the entertainment market. It is a well-known case that tickets that are available to most people are limited, among other things. because sponsors and VIP guests are given an increasing share. In addition, the price level of cultural and sporting tickets is itself high. Tickets for different cultural and sporting events are becoming luxury goods. If we do not now take action to counter organised black exchange trade, this development will be further reinforced. With regard to the argument that it is difficult to enforce the prohibition, all kinds of prohibitions apply. A wide range of existing criminal provisions are more difficult to enforce than a ban on black market sales. The Smoking Act is an example of a ban that was considered difficult to enforce when it was introduced. But time has shown that the critics were wrong. The Smoking Act has been a huge success. When assessing a ban on black market sales, consideration should be given to the alternatives to prohibition. I do not believe that voluntary action by the organiser will have the same effect. Nor does the Consumer Council believe so. It should be affordable to document the sale of the black market. Both individuals, media and consumer organisations will have an interest in detecting illegal activities that are contrary to consumer interests. A ban will undoubtedly make it much more difficult to make large sums of money on the black market and will lead to a high risk of criminal liability. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that popular cultural and sporting events are as widely accessible as possible to all, regardless of the economic situation. That is why we support a ban on the sale of tickets on the black market in order to prevent these events, as many have said in the debate, from being reserved for those who have a good economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e357	Both the rapporteur and the representative of the Christian People's Party gave a very good and precise description of the need for regulation of black market sales. Commercial black market sales of tickets have become more organised in Norway in recent years. The volume of economically motivated resale of overpriced tickets has increased, especially over the Internet. This has been shown in particular in the context of musical shows and festivals, where there is a large purchase of tickets during the first sale, which makes it difficult for the organisers to reach the customers actually attending the event. We also know that in recent years more football matches have been sold out – even Brann’s matches have been sold out, and fortunately some country match – where organised resale makes the work of the organizers and the audience’s ability to access tickets difficult. We also know that some people feel tricked by black market sales, because they think they buy tickets at the normal price. In recent years, consumer authorities have had a steady flow of complaints about organised resale of tickets. The review theme has been to provide insufficient price information and to create the impression that the resale company represents the official organiser of the event. Furthermore, there are problems related to the unsecured advance payment, the non-delivery of tickets, the lack of rights for the buyer and the sale of fake tickets. There are even people who have traveled far to get to a cup finale, who suddenly stand there with tickets that are not valid. Therefore, the Government considers that a ban on the resale of tickets for cultural and sporting events at an excess price is necessary. I would like to make it clear that the proposal only concerns the resale of tickets at an excess price and is intended to hit those who are operating the organised resale of tickets, of course not the ability of individuals to sell their tickets if they are not allowed to use them, at the usual price. Nor is the proposal intended to prevent organisers from entering into agreements with commissioners to manage ticket sales for an event. The aim is to ensure that everyone can experience cultural and sporting events. I see that the Progress Party, among other things, writes in its notes that the option is that the organizer can show away black exchange sellers. No, you can't put away someone who's doing legal business. It's just when you get a law firm that you can show away. Then I also see that you are worried about the police's expenses. Now the representative Heikki Holmås explained a little about it. But it is very often the organizer who pays for the police guard at this type of event. You also have your own guard, so that you get an effective device here without going beyond the other fight against crime, which we are very concerned about. Then they say that sanctions are demanded and therefore cannot support the bill. Well, it would have been better to propose penalties than to go against the bill. I believe that culture and sport should be for everyone, not for the few. It is supported by several organisations working on the organisation of events, including the Sports Association, the Rock Association and the Norwegian Festivals. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party – and I also understand the Left – supports the proposal to ban black market sales. Black market sales provide them with the best economic access to the most popular events and can be an effective barrier for people with normal economy to participate in them. So you could say, should you maybe let the market decide – that the seller and the buyer find out for themselves? Yeah, that's exactly what's being prevented by black market sales. Football federations, big concert organisers and festival organizers set the price so that ordinary people can afford to go there, and so the black marketers make sure that ordinary people do not get tickets at affordable prices, despite the fact that the seller actually wants it. So here's an obstacle between the seller and the buyer that we remove. The solidarity approach, such as: The football club and many festivals, which of course could sell the tickets at a much higher price, have, we will support them and make sure that they are effective. I believe that a law ban can help stop unfortunate developments in this area, and that it will stimulate the widest possible range of sporting and cultural events for all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e378	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e381	I have two questions for the Council of State. The left shares the intentions of the Council of State with this law, but is a little bit uncertain as to whether we can achieve all the objectives. We have written a comment on the matter that we want after some time to evaluate the law and see if there are enough penalties, so that it works properly. The second is: I am also concerned that today a lot of good work is being done by the organizers, and I hope that the organizers now do not lean on a law clause and do not follow up. What a lot of people do is, among other things. spending extra tickets a few days before the event to curb the black market trade, which I also think is a good cultural policy measure, because this will give you a more complex concert audience and festival audience than you get with all those who have decided in November that they will attend the Øya Festival.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e391	I think it's quite natural that we, if we don't evaluate after exactly three years, at least closely follow up on how this turns out. I'm not sure if we're going to get rid of the black market sales by a hundred percent, but at least it's going to be a lot harder for those who run organized sales of tickets at overprice. It becomes more difficult to advertise, because the consumer authorities can go in and look at that kind of thing. And it becomes more difficult to stay near the venue and openly sell the tickets at overprice. If we get rid of the problem completely, I don't know, but at least I think this is a very important measure. Then we'll evaluate along the way, as Skei Grande says, and see if we'll do more. I also fully agree with the representative that even the organisers should really put in place the measures they can. I fully agree that this with the periodicization of the sale, selling tickets close to the event, is a ludicrous strategy to make the market for the black market sellers a little more uncertain, so that perhaps fewer people take the chance to purchase large stocks of tickets. When everything is sold out after ten minutes, it's not because ordinary people have bought the tickets. It's because the black market sharks have supplied themselves roughly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e398	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e403	Quite briefly, there were some comments to my previous post that I would like to comment on briefly, if I can. One was from Woldseth's representative that there is also another ticket hall over the Internet that is not a forward sale. It does – and I want to underline: thank you and the price for it. My post was directed towards the resale of tickets made with foresight, which will be covered by the laws that we adopt here today. So the representative Thommen from the Right asks if the winnings go away from the organizer. I mean he does it, and I'll just say briefly why. It can happen in two ways. First, when an event was announced, e.g. a concert, quickly disappearing tickets. Among those who arrange, it creates the impression that there is a great demand for this concert, and they set up a concert number. 2nd@item: inlistbox So it turns out when the time comes for concert number. 2, that demand is not present, simply because it has been a comprehensive resale of tickets, and that demand is not as great as a trusted first. That's the one way it could happen. The other way is that the possibility of increased revenue for an organiser will lie in the difference between the price that the organiser intends to charge and the customer is willing to pay. This will lead to that if there is someone there and takes out that difference through the resale of tickets, it is a potential that could be used for revenue for the organizer, but that is not being exploited.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e416	There were a couple of relationships I could imagine commenting on this matter. First, to the state council's claim that it's impossible to disprove black exchange sales. The case is that most cities and agglomerations in Norway have some police regulations that make it possible and also require that if you want to do business in the form of sales, you have to have approval from both public and landowners. In such a context, it would then be unproblematic to reject the operator of this sales activity. This is an interesting thing: you adopt a law with no actual consequences. The question then is whether the people who run this business, these bandits who sell black exchange, are going to be very scared. I don't think so. One thing is that the law has no consequences, but it also has no resources to go to the police. We now see daily in the media, on TV reports about the situation in the Norwegian police. We know that violence, rape, crime and killings are increasing. We see that the police lack resources for vehicles. Half of the car park is at individual chambers. There is a lack of safety equipment, etc. I notice that the representative Holmås believes that this should be a very effective measure. I think at best it's very optimistic to claim it. It's no worse to circumvent this law than to get an Internet domain – it'll take about four and a half minutes – and then you've been outside the impact field of this law. It is also — back to this with the resources of the police — impossible to deploy additional resources when you are as driven on the rim as you are. We have heard Minister of Justice Storberget say that there will be no more money for the police. There are none of us who think it's nice to sell a black market, but it's going to be strange to adopt such a law when we know that there are opportunities to do something about it from the organizer's side. The Council of State even mentioned the large volumes of concert tickets that expire the first days after they were put out for sale. The organizers themselves could do something about it if they wanted and wanted to, and I think that gives me reason to put a big question mark on this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e429	Just a brief comment on the claim that this is a law that does not have consequences: it is precisely because it has consequences that the entire industry that actually sells tickets, i.e. the Sports Association, the Football Association, the Rock Association, the festival organizers, wants this law. And as I also said in my post – it does not go beyond police resources whose resources the organizer himself has paid can ensure that the black exchange dealers are expelled. In addition, as far as I remember, it is well in revised more money for the police, so that claim from Knudsen is probably also incorrect. On 1 July we get rid of the one-armed bandits. In my view, we should get rid of the two-armed bandits about at the same time. Then most people – as some parties talk about but do not act for – would really get access to sports and concert events.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e434	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 593]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e450	At the request of the Family and Culture Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e459	In this case, we will consider Ot.prp. No 47 for 2006-2007, About the Law on the Registration of Collections. The proposal is to establish a voluntary registration system to ensure that the funds given to the public are also used for the purposes stated in the registered collection. A register shall be kept of collections of a stand-alone control body which also controls the use of the funds in accordance with the assumptions. There is currently no direct legal regulation of collections. The private foundation Collection Control in Norway was established in 1991 and has more than 70 non-governmental organisations as members. The purpose of the collection control is to contribute to the safe implementation of collections and the sound management of collected funds. A statutory registration system for collections can contribute to increased transparency in the implementation and management of money collection. All batches are satisfied that no registration obligation is proposed. However, it is an objective that most of the small and large collections should see the benefits of being included in the register. There is a broad consensus that all collections must strive for the widest possible share of the money to be used for the stated purpose. The proposal proposes that a minimum of 65 pst. of the amount collected in each action shall be for the purposes stated in the collection. However, the objective should be to assess the rate of the minimum requirement raised once the registry has been in operation for two to three years. The legislative proposal stipulates that the control body issues a quality mark so that registered collections can be easily identified. In addition to a collection mark, it will be assessed whether registered collections should have a collection account starting with a fixed number, for example. 90, the same scheme as exists in Sweden today. This can make people more aware of who they give money to, and whether they are registered and subject to transparency and control of the means of collection. Unfortunately, there are some unprofessional players in this market, and there are also cases of regular fraud, I have been told. There is also a broad consensus that control must be exercised by a stand-alone body not linked to the public authorities. Reference is made to the fact that official controls on voluntary collections will break a voluntary tradition both in Norway and abroad. The majority – the government parties – believe that the proposition should be adopted as it is. The minority – the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – are critical. The minority points out that there was a short period of time at the hearing. It is also the case that the matter appears to be brief and that several topics could have been elaborated for the benefit of others. This applies, inter alia, to: the framework for administrative costs, the relationship between small and large actors and how the supervisory board should be anchored in voluntary activity itself. It is also clear that, in practice, the legislative proposal as it stands now means very little in relation to the activities of the Collection Control in Norway today. We in the minority therefore believe that this cannot be seen as a matter of urgency. We believe that it could have been an unconditional advantage if the issue of collection control had been dealt with in the context with or in the wake of the announcement of volunteering. On behalf of the minority, I would therefore like to address the proposal that Ot.prp. No 47 is returned to the Government and promoted as a new case in connection with the submission of the voluntary service.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e490	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has made the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e493	The law on the recording of collections is one of many proposals now coming from the Government to strengthen the activities of voluntary organisations in Norway. The next week, we will discuss the matter of volunteer registers, and later this summer, there will be a separate big message about the volunteer's union in Norway. The background to this proposal is the desire to contribute to increased transparency in the implementation of the collection of funds and the management of the funds collected. In this way, a stop could be less serious collections. The voluntary organisations in Norway have great confidence in the Norwegian population. It is also demonstrated by the enormous willingness among people to support collections by non-governmental organisations. Nevertheless, voluntary organisations believe that there is a need for better regulation and control of the collection, not least because some unprofessionals can destroy the many. There is therefore a need to address those actors who are not acting according to good collection practice. The voluntary organisations in Norway have been a driving force for such a registration scheme, and in the consultation phase most have supported the Government’s proposal that this should be legislated. The voluntary organisations agree that such a scheme should not be added to the public, and it is followed up in this bill. It is proposed that such a system be added to an independent body, a foundation, which is responsible for the registration. An obligation to register and report the collection is initially not proposed. Firstly, it would be difficult to control compliance with such an obligation as long as the activity is not registered in a voluntary register. Secondly, a statutory obligation also requires the possibility of sanctioning infringements. The latter raises some fundamental issues since the penalty system then has to be delegated to a private foundation. However, the government parties consider it important to implement this scheme if the voluntary register is not in place. If we are to wait for the volunteer register to be in place, it will take another few years for us to have a good control system for the funds collected. Voluntary organisations have sailed after starting up. In addition, we believe that the system, independent of the registration obligation, will be well-functioning, given that too small and large collections will be worth recording their business. The legislative proposal stipulates that the control body issues a quality mark so that registered collections can be easily identified. I think this will help the Norwegian population choose to support registered actions. The quality label will serve as a guarantee to donors that the collection is serious and that you are not deceived. This in itself will be so effective that it is a point to get the scheme going as quickly as possible. The opposition proposes to postpone this matter. They do the same with the Voluntary Register, which was issued by the Committee earlier today. It is interesting to see that the opposition has no alternative to the government's policy but to postpone matters. However, this is also the worst option, since the registration of the collection activities and the voluntary register will be significantly delayed. This is not the case in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e512	The right considers, like the other opposition parties, that it would have been a great advantage if this case had been dealt with together with the announced voluntary service. It is an important point that both this case and the volunteer register case should be seen in that context and sent back to the Government in this round. This is, as the representative Knudsen was also involved, no urgency. We have the Collection Control in Norway, which is doing a good job. We see that it will be important to legitimise collection actions that we have provisions to make on this and that it will strengthen this activity to allow it to do so. That's not how we're opposed to the intentions and what it's added up to. But there are several points that we're questioning about whether you've gone into the proposition thoroughly enough. Among other things, this law is about how it will turn out in relation to small organisations and in relation to new measures. It is true that administrative costs are increasing at the beginning, and we think it is important that new actors also have an opportunity to integrate in this area. We have also noticed that it should be up to the Supervisory Board itself to define criteria for calculating the administrative costs. It's a rather large and complex topic, which we would like to look a little bit deeper into, perhaps especially in relation to small actors. We have also noticed some irritation from at least some organisations during the hearings and otherwise that this was operated with a consultation period that they perceived as short and that the umbrella organisation ‘Freewill Norway’, which organises about 120 organisations, was given a kind of specialty here. It is in the air from some of the hearing bodies we have been in contact with, that there is a questioning of an organisation that primarily organises the large, heavy nation-wide organisations, which fully sees the needs of small organisations. As the Workers' Party's Gunn Karin Gjul also pointed out, there have now been a number of issues related to volunteering, and we had believed that the message should come and be the platform on which voluntary policy should be pursued. Seeing this whole field in a context we think would be very important and provide a better foundation to also deal with this matter. That is why we believe that the matter can be postponed. We don't think anyone is hurting it – the case could then be better investigated and perhaps be more precise in terms of what we want to achieve, namely a system that will provide better conditions for collection actions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e525	Voluntary organisational life has deep roots in Norwegian society. Together with Sweden and the Netherlands, Norway is at the top in Europe when it concerns the scale of voluntary efforts. Studies show that over half of the population participate in voluntary work during the year. ==References== 80 pst. this happens within the framework of an organisation. Through their social activities, voluntary associations link people together in social communities. This gives people access, and there are created living and secure communities around our country. There are many people who point out that the fireplaces have to spend much of their time on things other than what they're burning for. Administrative tasks and the collection of money, etc. may require a considerable amount of time and effort. It is important to avoid over-profession of voluntary life by imposing excessive demands on volunteers. At the same time, it's important that we not just look at a voluntary fireplace as a victim. We also need to focus on the fact that the positive experiences of taking responsibility in voluntary organisational work are quite great. The proposition we are discussing today concerns the control of the funds collected on which many organisations depend entirely. The Christian People's Party supports such a control body as the Government proposes, but we wonder why the proposition does not do any good for more themes that the hearing authorities have actually requested. It shall apply, inter alia: issues of registration, the administrative costs framework, the relationship between large and small operators and a deeper understanding of how the control body should be anchored in the voluntary sector, etc. The Christian People's Party is not pleased that the proposed proposal leaves to the new body itself to develop an important criterion for the calculation of the administrative costs of collection operations. In its hearing interview, UNICEF asks questions about how the administrative costs should be calculated. It is claimed that there is a risk that some organisations are better suited than others to the criteria for approval proposed. That makes us in the Christian People's Party a little troubled. It does not have to be that some organisations do not have the ability to get a stamp of quality even if they have low administrative costs and the collection goes to a hospital in e.g. Tanzania. According to the Christian People's Party, the proposition should be dealt with together with the announcement of framework conditions for the voluntary sector. The short listening time means that the proposition is a matter of urgency for which we do not understand the background. That is why the Christian People's Party, in teams with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, is proposing to send the proposition back to the Government, and we want a new issue to be raised about controlling the collection actions in connection with the submission of the volunteer message. Public authorities should be careful to provide guidance for voluntary activities. Cooperation must be based on respect for the specific values that characterise the voluntary sector and voluntary life. The public's task must be to stimulate voluntary action, not to pay for it to become superfluous. We rely on the fact that in the future, there are still fireworks that find it meaningful to contribute with voluntary work. This will be an important contribution to Norway's continuing to be a good society to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e542	The Centre Party is committed to pursuing a policy that facilitates a strong and vibrant voluntary sector. A policy that favours the voluntary sector will be a good investment for society, as we know that the voluntary sector is a major contributor to both value creation and social development. The voluntary sector is also a source of great trust among people. By introducing a voluntary collection registration system, which checks that the funds collected are used after the entries, we are encouraging this trust today. Large parts of the voluntary sector are funded through gifts. The same is true of natural enough collection actions directed by voluntary organisations. An assumption that the income through gifts is kept up and up is that people trust that the money goes where it is going. All examples of the opposite will lead to people refusing to open their wallet the next time someone asks if they will support a good case. Today's decision will give you a more transparent system and make it easier to ensure that money goes for the right purpose. There is currently no legal regulation of collections. The centre party supports the idea of setting up a voluntary registration scheme and that it should be consulted by an independent body created by the voluntary organisations. So we're agreeing to the bill as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e551	Voluntary activities provide an invaluable social contribution and are largely dependent on contributions from private donors. In recent years, we have become familiar through the media with an increasing number of isolated cases where the trust of donors has been abused, either by the fact that the collected funds have been used for other than the stated purpose, or that the funds have gone away from the administrative costs of the collection itself. This can lead to people refusing to give money for good purposes. Such a development will be serious for volunteering. The proposal for a law on the registration of collections aims at introducing a voluntary registration system to ensure that the funds given to the public are also used for the specified purpose. Collection means, in this context, the collection of money or gifts for income for social purposes. I believe that it is most appropriate in the field of volunteering that the registration of collections should be voluntary and not an obligation. The aim of this law is to ensure that, as much as possible — both small and large collections — the benefits of being registered in the register. However, a registration obligation for larger collections could be assessed once the register has been operational for a period of time. However, an obligation will result in the need for other sanctioning options, which raise difficult issues in relation to volunteering and require further consideration. It is wrong when the opposition questions whether obligations have been assessed. It's described in the proposition. And the conclusion is clear: we want volunteering here too to be voluntary in its registration activity. The proposal does not add the registration authority to a public authority body but proposes the addition of an independent body in the form of a general foundation designated by the ministry. This is consistent with the consultation input from voluntary activities and the situation in other European countries. The control body shall equip registered collections with a quality mark to ensure that the collection is subject to certain control requirements for the management of funds — equivalent to the Swan label in the environmental field. This will make it easier for people to recognise the recorded collections and give them the opportunity to choose these collections rather than others who are not subject to control. Now, of course, with reference to the article by the representative Sørfonn, there is a local community council that collects money for local activity, because people know those people, and then you don't need that quality label, because you feel the security of the neighborhood. So I think that's solved. The proposal stipulates that collections registered undertake to make the most of the funds collected, and a minimum of 65 pst, for the stated purpose. It has been assumed that the calculation will take place over a three-year period. However, the minimum rate may be set once the register has been in operation for a period of time. Furthermore, it is proposed that the collection accounts be kept in accordance with the accounting standards of NPISHs established by the Norwegian Accounting Foundation and sent to the Audit Board. I assume that this will ensure that the conditions for registration are complied with, and make the implementation of and the management of money in the case of collections more transparent and reassuring. The registration body may delete or refuse registration of the collection where it does not comply with the requirements laid down in the law or with other established guidelines. This is published on the Registry’s websites so that the public can keep up to date easily. If the control body suspects the criminal use of the funds collected, the controller shall assess whether the situation should be reported to the police. It is proposed that the registration and control system should be self-financing. In order for the law to function according to its intention, it is important that the public is aware of the establishment of a register. I will therefore turn off between 1 and 2 million. kr within the Ministry of Culture and the Church's budgetary framework for setting up and informing about the new scheme. I just have to complain to the opposition, and in particular to the Progress Party, that the proposition is simple, concise, unbureaucratic and quickly delivered. We'll try to tighten up on later occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e577	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 594]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e593	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Britt Hildeng, for Espen Johnsen, who is the rapporteur on the matter, but a member of the Lagtinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e604	This is the seventh or eighth time in the last 20 years that Odelstinget has dealt with the issue of the law prohibiting professional boxing. So this is not a new debate, nor are there any new arguments. After we were banned from professional boxing in 1981, the Progress Party and the Right have regularly made proposals to lift the ban on professional boxing. The arguments and approaches in these discussions from the proposers have been marked by repetitions: it is child and child epicity; Norway is ridiculed in other countries that allow boxing — everything you do abroad should be allowed in Norway, and it is the individual’s right to harm itself. It's going to be interesting to see if the proposers are renewing their arguments this time. The majority of the Committee, all parties with the exception of the Advance Party and the Right, are in favour of rejecting the proposal to lift the ban on professional boxing in Norway. The majority believe that there are no new arguments that suggest that the ban on professional boxing should be lifted. The majority point to the fact that the Centre for Injury Research at Norway’s Sports School states that the research results of the Norwegian Sports Medical Association during the examination of similar proposals in 1998 are still valid. The main conclusion of this research report is: ‘The brain, unlike other parts of the body, cannot be trained to withstand injuries. Any blow to the head involves a risk of brain damage. Professional boxing has blows to the head as the most fundamental way to perform the activity. [[...]] Nearly 90 % of professional fighters suffer brain damage. It has been shown that the longer a book secret goods, the greater the risk of chronic brain damage, of which brain loss, dementia and memory failure, Alzheimer's disease, insatiability and Parkinsonism will be among the most feared plagues. [[...]] In view of the serious acute, and not least the chronic brain damage of professional boxers, there is no medical doubt that boxing is very harmful to the brain.» The Committee notes that no research has been carried out that rejects or weakens concerns about the repeated impact of health on the head and therefore opposes the proposal to lift the ban on professional boxing. The examination of this eighth proposal thus forms part of the series of previous deliberations, in which the arguments are repeated on both sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e626	In this case, I feel almost a reason to call out loud hurrah. Now you might want to ask questions as to whether it's been rable for Knudsen, or whether he might have gone some rounds in the ring with Steffen Tangstad, because we haven't got a majority for our proposal. That's absolutely right, but two out of three arguments that have previously led to bans are now away from the other parties' argument. It is a significant victory, and then it is not long before this proposal is going to go through. That's what I'm tracking. Maybe it has to be taken up nine, maybe ten, maybe eleven times, but that's going to go through, we're absolutely sure. Away is now the argument about the alleged outrageous effect on the audience. Today, several TV channels send boxing matches directly, and it is not uncommon for the large matches to be transferred on large screens in pubs. Recently, among other things, watch a Norwegian female professional boxer go fight in best time on Saturday evening on TV 2, and she actually won as well. Today's Nordics are also exposed to uncensored film, video and DVD and an ever-growing and significant market with relatively violent computer games. A boxing game can be said to seem to be intriguing to the audience in relation to what we see of games and movies. Nor is it in any way documented that being a spectator of a sport like boxing is more intriguing than seeing a football game. In fact, experience with violence and tribune shows that it can be the opposite. Away is also the argument that professional boxing meant an unwanted commercialisation of sport. The argument about economic interests and the commercialisation of sport is pointless today because very many Norwegian sports are commercialised, and top-level practitioners are professional. Take, for example: Norwegian football. You have to look for a long time to find people in Norway who think it's wrong to make money as a sportsman. The only thing to cling to on the part of the majority is health. The majority claims that 90 pst. by the practitioners of professional boxing are affected by damage and some of these injuries become chronic. I do not ignore the fact that there are some injuries – sometimes serious – in this sport. The relevant question then arises as to whether there are no serious and chronic injuries also in other cases, and as to whether it is entirely possible that a Norwegian sportsman is injured, as long as it does not happen within Norway’s borders. It is also clear that medical surveillance is strict in professional boxing, and in some cases more stringent than in other sports. Now, when the ban is maintained, it actually makes sense to box, only it happens outside the country's borders. Then the intention is to protect Norwegian fighters' health through a ban, in any case completely illusory. If the health of the boxes is kept in mind, Norwegian professionals should obviously be allowed to participate in Norwegian claims under Norwegian licence, so that the necessary medical checks can be carried out under the supervision of Norwegian authorities. Of course, boxing causes damage, both at professional and amateur level. But this also applies to most other sports practiced in Norway, such as handball, football, alpine, ski jumping, etc. It is also an undeniable fact that sportsmen who have come to Norway after the ban came in 1981 and who are not prohibited may cause considerable risk of injury, such as various of the so-called martial arts, country hockey, American football, freestyle alpine, offshore boat racing, etc. Another aspect is criminal law. The prohibition means that the person who deliberately participates in competition, demonstration or training in professional boxing may be penalised by fines or imprisonment for up to three months. In practice, this has meant that Norwegian fighters risk prison sentences if they train with sparring partners in their home country. It is a punishment which, in worst cases, could be in line with what is often condemned in the Norwegian judiciary for relatively serious crimes of violence and gain. I have also read reports in the press that Norwegian amateur boxing is struggling with headwinds. At the same time, you have been able to read and hear that new, skilled professionals are on their way up in sport. These Norwegian top sportsmen are forced to exercise their sport abroad because they have been banned from working in Norway. Therefore, the Progress Party takes up its proposal, as it says in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e654	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e657	Law prohibiting professional boxing was introduced in 1981. Since then, Stortinget has discussed several proposals for repealing the law. On all these occasions, Storting has refused to lift the ban on professional boxing. When the Stortinget examined the proposal to repeal the law in 1998, the Ministry of Culture received a report from the Norwegian Sports Medical Association on the medical adverse effects of professional boxing. I would like to read the conclusion of the report: ‘The brain, unlike other parts of the body, cannot be trained to withstand injuries. Any blow to the head involves a risk of brain damage. Professional boxing has blows to the head as the most fundamental way to perform the activity. By putting the opponent's brain out of function, the battle is won. [[‘knockout’]] Professional fighters are subjected to acute, very severe head and brain damage, which does not rarely result in death. Nearly 90 % of professional fighters suffer brain damage. It has been shown that the longer a book secret goods, the greater the risk of chronic brain damage, of which brain loss, dementia and memory failure, Alzheimer's disease, insatiability and Parkinsonism will be among the most feared plagues. Plagues increase over time, even after the end of book secretaries.In view of the severe acute, and not least the chronic brain damage professional boxers get, there is no medical doubt that boxing is very harmful to the brain.» These aren't my words. I'm not a medical expert, either. I can't stand them, I can't stand them, I can't stand them. However, it is paradoxical that when we are going to adopt a collection action system to which 125 non-governmental organisations through ‘Freedom Norway’ are joining, more investigation and more thorough treatment are needed. But here, where a medical expertise says this is harmful, you have to decide something else over the table – without any investigation or review, etc. It is clear that you are more concerned with satisfying the professional boxes than with volunteering in Norway. One of the arguments for state support for organised sport activity is linked to health benefits by sport and physical activity. Now, of course, we know that damage occurs in a number of cases, and the focus on harm prevention is therefore crucial. I'd like to point out the Center for Sport Damage Research at Norway's Sports School. The purpose of the Centre is to prevent damage to sport through a long-term research programme focusing on risk factors, harm mechanisms and harm prevention measures. The Centre receives grants from the Ministry of Culture and the Church. However, the serious damage that occurs in professional boxing does not come as a result of unregulated games, but as part of the sport itself. No matter how much you focus on medical monitoring of practitioners or harm prevention, it will be impossible to eliminate serious adverse health consequences from pro-boxing. In view of this, it is clear to the Government that the prohibition should be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e675	Several have not asked for the floor. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 595]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e683	Odelstingen goes to voting on case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e691	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward by Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a system of State co-financing for security and preparedness actions.’ This proposal will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e792	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e802	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e845	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e855	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e885	The Progress Party and the Right have notified that they will vote against the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e898	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Right will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e912	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e920	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No 47 on the law on the recording of collections is returned to the Government and promoted as a new matter on the control of collection actions in connection with the submission of the voluntary notification.» [[2006-2007]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e986	The President will alternately vote between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e999	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e1009	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e1017	During the debate Ulf Erik Knudsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to repeal the Law of 12 June 1981 No 68 concerning the prohibition of professional boxing Ilov 12 June 1981 No 68 on the prohibition of professional boxing shall be repealed. This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-05-lower.ana.ud878e1056	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
