ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e98	The representative Heikki Holmås, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. The representatives Laila Davøy and Hallgeir H. Langeland have received applications for leave from 3 December to 5 December, both to attend the 53rd session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly, second part, in Paris. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For the county of Hordaland: Knut Arild HareideFor the county of Rogaland: Gjertrud Kjellesvik3. Gjertrud Kjellesvik is elected to the Lagninget for the time she meets the representative of Hallgeir H. Langeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e129	Knut Arild Hareide and Gjertrud Kjellesvik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e135	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e147	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 30 November 2007: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 30 November 2007 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is determined:State Secretary Randi Överland is granted, on application, by way of derogation from the office of State Secretary Trond Giske.State Secretary Wegard Harsvik is appointed State Secretary Trond Giske on application from office as Secretary of State for Sylvia Kristin Brustad with resignation on 3 December 2007.State Secretary Wegard Harsvik is appointed State Secretary for Council Trond Giske with accession on 3 December 2007.Kari Henriksen is appointed State Secretary for Council Sylvia Kristin Brustad with accession on 3 December 2007.» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e174	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e181	The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs hereby proposes the budgetary position of the framework area 14, which has an income and expenditure framework of DKr 1480 217 000. There's one different proposal, and I can immediately take it up because it's from the Progress Party and the Right. So I'm taking up the proposal. What is the background to that proposal is that last year a meeting committee said that we saw it so that the people's gift to the king was responsible for keeping the people by the same token, and in a letter from the court gave an expression that it was desirable by 2.5 million. kr for restoration, refurbishment and maintenance of Kongssetra. There was no room in the government's draft budget, and we are therefore making a proposal to increase item 50 by 2.5 million. kr and finning for it in the post under Stortinget as a debt to political party. We've seen in the media and also in the reckoning that the political parties have a lot of money. The vast majority of political parties have large bank accounts that show that, in the Stortinget, we are probably now allowing too much money for the big groups in relation to what they can use. Besides, there's also been a tightening of what big groups can spend that money on, so we don't think it's that hard to spend 2.5 million. DKr of them over 100 million. kr that goes to the population groups every year, to that. The case-speaker may take a three-minute speech on this later in the debate. As a case spokesman for the chapter on the Civilo Ombudsman, I would just like to briefly mention that there is no amendment there. I would like to point out that it is important that the Civilombodsman is there, that we have an institute that can take care of the individual's rights to the public, and that it is a particularly important work that the Civilombodsman does. With these few words, I will present this draft budget. I'm assuming that maybe some case spokespersons for the other chapters will take the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e196	The representative of Lodve Solholm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e199	That's just a short comment. The EOS Committee is doing an excellent job as a control body, responsible for ensuring the functioning of the civil surveillance service, military intelligence and security service within the established framework. The 2008 budget shows a significant increase. This is primarily due to the need for new premises. The Committee has received a request for a further increase of NOK 200000 — not much in the broad context — but has nevertheless not found room in this exercise to increase the framework. However, I do not overlook the fact that it may be natural to review this need in the context of the review of the revised budget for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e206	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 893]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e222	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e229	The national audit usually follows up administrative audits three years after the cases are dealt with in the Stortinget. If there are no visible improvements after three years, the cases will be followed up again for the following year. The Riksrevision document deals with a total of nine administrative audits. Eight cases have been closed and the Committee shares the Riksrevision’s view that it is justified to close the procedure now. When it comes to investigating the effectiveness of the planning and management of the common management system in defence, the Committee points out that the follow-up must be carried out through the annual accounting audit. The examination of the income system for municipalities showed that it did so, among other things. There have been errors in the reporting of mental retardation, and this has resulted in some municipalities being overly favoured, while others have been found to be illegitimate. The Committee argued that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs actively informed the municipalities of the current criterion, so that the municipalities would be entitled to do so. The national audit has concluded the follow-up and the supervision of child protection. The Committee would point out that the Riksrevision has started an administrative audit of Bufetat, and suggested that this report will address the main issues related to child protection. In the light of the results of the National Audit Office’s investigation into the government purchase of passenger transport services from the NSB, the Committee argued that the Riksaudition would follow the developments in the NSB passenger transport and would inform Storting in an appropriate manner. In the case of Kripos's investigation, the Committee notes that the measures taken appear to have corrected the main weaknesses identified in the report. The National Audit Office has completed investigations on the effectiveness of Norwegian aid to Mozambique. On a general basis, the Committee would stress the importance of prioritising control of Norwegian aid. In the case of the examination of the levying of the tax and customs duty rates, the Committee takes the view that the Riksaudition follows the collection work and the residual situation in the budgets through the annual accounts audit. In the case of the National Audit Office's investigation concerning the conservation and preservation of collections at five State museums, the Riksaudition announces a new administrative audit in this area to investigate whether improvements have occurred. The Committee welcomes the re-examination of the conservation and preservation of the collections of the State Museums and would stress our joint responsibility to safeguard cultural taxes in the future. The one case that is being followed up further concerns the examination of the control of the customs and tax haven with the operation, Document No. 3:7 for 2003-2004. The National Audit Office expressed concern that the use of resources in the control of business seems to be falling. The Committee welcomes the further follow-up of the Riksaudition and calls for the Storting to be properly informed. At the end: Document No. 3:1 from the Riksrevision may not be so remarkable, but I would nevertheless stress that the report and follow-up of administrative audits is important in relation to the Stortinge's control task.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e259	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 895]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e275	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e282	The county council is the state's leading representative in the county. The task of the county council is to put public sector policy, both locally and regionally, into practice and to ensure that the state’s policies appear to be coordinated and coherent. In addition, the State shall act as a judicial security body, supervise the activities of the municipalities and act as a review body. The county has tasks in the policy area from 13 departments. This illustrates the significant coordination tasks involved. The starting point of the Riksrevision study has been the relationship between the tasks of county authorities and the resources made available to them. Furthermore, the achievement of the objectives and prioritisation of the resources and governance of the posts has been looked at on the basis of the principle of objectives and performance management. The findings in the studies are not uplifting. The unanimous request of the Control and Constitutional Committee at the Innst. S. No 82 for 2001-2002 on the assessment by the Government of ‘the expectations of the effectiveness of rationalisation and efficiency are proportionate to the resources and requirements of the government’ has not been followed up. On the contrary, there is no full overview of the resource situation in the offices, nor has there been a systematic assessment of the relationship between funds and assigned tasks. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration has overall responsibility for coordinating the county offices. I'm a little surprised by the department's downplay of this responsibility. Although each department has a direct technical command authority with regard to Fylkesen in its field of competence, the Ministry of Renewal and Administration must take responsibility for coordinating activities across the disciplines. I'm pointing out that a unanimous committee of control and constitution clarified in the Inner East. S. 156 for 2006-2007 that the State Council in the Ministry of Renewal and Administration must be aware of its specific responsibilities in charge of and coordinator to the sectoral ministries in matters of administrative policy. It is also important that the Ministry assumes the primary responsibility for ensuring consistency between the tasks entrusted to the county offices and the resources allocated to the posts. The majority of the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee ask the Government to draw up legislation ensuring the responsibility and ownership of each department for the tasks it entrusts to the county councillors and where the Ministry of Renewal and Administration is given a special responsibility to ensure that sufficient resources are provided to enable the tasks to be effectively carried out. I assume that the Council of State will follow up and take these challenges seriously. With regard to the specific areas, an overall committee expresses concern that work on social security and preparedness appears to be of lower priority. The people will play an important role in this work, and I therefore assume that the Government will ensure that this area is given the necessary priority. The Committee took note of positive developments in appeal proceedings. There, the Ministry has followed up and established a system to compare the treatment time between the counties. As far as supervisory tasks are concerned, these are increasing, while many offices do not even meet the requirements of the number of supervision or are at a minimum. The people have an important function on behalf of the state. If the tasks are to be adequately managed, they require consistency between the tasks entrusted and the resources made available. Otherwise, I refer you to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e308	Priority must be given to the presence of resources between law enforcement and legal security tasks on the one hand and the review of forward-looking policy decisions on planning and land matters on the other. I want to point out that 36 pst. of the annual works of the county office are used in areas under the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment, while only 15 pst. of the annual works are used for the health and care area. I believe that this is a wrong priority, and that the main priorities of the county council must clearly be law enforcement and legal security tasks. It may seem that something has failed in the County and in law enforcement in the case of the Terra case. Here I believe that something has failed, including at the County Council. This should go in and look at. In line with the assessment of what the councillor has done, what Terra has done and what the municipalities have done, you should look at what the County has done in this matter. It may seem as if the County Per. There are too many tasks today. There is potential for savings and re-priorities. The current system, under which municipal decisions are repeatedly reviewed by bureaucrats of the State, must in the long term be replaced by an administrative court capable of assessing the legality of municipal decisions. The rights of objection and discretion of the county council should be limited in the short term to the control of legality. I refer to the fact that the decisions under review by the State are most often related to the use of discretion. This clearly limits local democracy. The Progress Party wants to limit the role of the State to purely legal control, and in the long term replaces the State with an administrative court, which we believe is a good alternative. I would also like to point out that the Progress Party has repeatedly made proposals to establish administrative courts in Norway. The possibility of judicial review today is almost absent and not suitable to increase respect for the legal framework for administration. The consequence is that legal certainty is worse in the daily life of the administration than is necessary. Today’s form of judicial control of administration is clearly inadequate. The tasks of the county council must, as I said, be limited to law enforcement, supervision and emergency work. Six national state supervision and directorates have been set up to carry out the traditional advisory and guidance tasks of most of the counties towards local authorities. Today’s society is characterised by the fact that information is more readily available, and new technologies enable contacts with national institutions to move quickly and efficiently. Therefore, I and the Progress Party believe that it is possible to reduce the size and activity of the county office. Examples include agricultural policy, public health and integration policies. There is a lot of double work between state directorates, county councils, county councils and municipalities. The Government must assess whether the expectations of the effect of rationalisation and efficiency are proportionate to the resources made available and the requirements of the posts. The report of the National Audit Office shows that such a review has not been carried out. On the contrary, the study shows that there is no complete overview of the resource situation of the State and that no systematic assessment of the means put at the disposal of the assigned tasks has been carried out. As I said, I believe that this is a wrong priority, and that the main priorities of the County Council must clearly be law enforcement and legal security tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e334	When you read the National Audit Office's report in this area, you get a very clear impression that it's very easy for a government to make new laws, to say that the supervision of this law has to be taken care of. It is then the Minister of Renewal and hears innumerable meetings of the Government without the same government being obliged to send money to the County. And then we find that the County has formal control in a number of areas where there is no real control. We have recently seen two examples of this. A few days ago, it was revealed that County control on the pollution side – in this case it was a waste site, and in this case it was a special state, but I think it is generally across the country – is based on the fact that the establishments concerned control themselves, because the county doesn't at least, and the county knows that it's being sinned against the law, and does nothing, for capacity reasons, as it's called. It is the so-called environmental protection department that in this case had one and a half positions in the respective county. A more topical example – and here I expect the Council of State to give a well-prepared answer – is the so-called Terra scandal, which we have recorded that the Government is very concerned about. Why in the world have municipalities had the opportunity to speculate so wild and homeless with taxpayers' money, and at the top of it all also future money, without the County running any control? On the other hand, the county manager controls those who are on the Robek list, who hardly have enough money to speculate with, while those who have money to speculate with are free to speculate, without control. I've seen some figures that indicate that if Hattfjelldal's debt withdrawals per. The citizen would have happened in the country's capital, so we would face a debt increase of between 40 and 50 billion kroner. I'm not going to admit the exact number, but just point out that it might have given some attention, to say it carefully. And then my question is, what is the reason for the state's sleep in these matters, and what is the government's strategy to bring this back to life? I'm, like the previous speaker, concerned at this point, but I probably don't agree that the statesmen have too much resources. The people have too many tasks, and it doesn't follow resources. Then I think I would start looking at the problems before I started cutting resources further. Because it's not good for a legal society that we leave the control tasks to a body that only has formal control over the paper, and it's practically nothing. I look forward with excitement to the response of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e343	The county is the government’s representative in the county and must work to ensure that decisions, objectives and guidelines of the State and the Government are followed up regionally and locally. We know, as the rapporteur mentioned, that the task portfolio of the county councils is extensive and very complex. The aim of the National Audit Office’s study has been to assess the effectiveness, the achievement of the objectives, the priorities and the resource situation of the county offices and to assess the overall governance of the offices. The study shows, inter alia: that there is a wide variation in the perception of local authorities that county authorities are balancing professional sectoral considerations against local and local government. In some counties, municipalities feel that the state sector concerns themselves in a way that guarantees local democracy a leeway for making independent decisions. In other counties, however, municipalities feel that the county councillors place the highest emphasis on professional sector considerations and take less account of municipal economy and autonomy. Some municipalities point out that professional departments in each office act independently of each other, and that the County Council appears to be little complete in its local coordination. The consequence may be the risk that the municipality will not achieve State objectives as a result of restrictions resulting from competing sectoral policy considerations. The study also shows that some offices face major challenges related to the coordination of regional government governance signals with municipalities. A fragmented regional state may require time and resources for municipalities to deal with, and the coordination of the State with other state agencies does not appear to be sufficient today. The responsibilities of the county council for regional coordination are ambitiously formulated in the performance requirements, and it is unclear whether all the posts define this as a primary task and whether they have sufficient means to follow up these objectives. Finally, I should like to refer to the Committee's comments on which it says: ‘The Committee has noted that the work on social security and preparedness appears to be of lower priority. Although this is partly due to necessary redisposals in the justice sector, the Committee questions the extent to which the size has been informed of developments. The Committee therefore asks the Riksrevision to comment specifically on this issue in the context of the presentation of the accounts for 2007.» I would like to stress that the events of the last few days have shown how important it is to focus on social security and preparedness, among other things. in the case of the fire at Oslo Central Station and its consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e361	Let me first of all agree with the Stortinget's Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that the Members of this House play an important role as a sectoral board for several departments, as a judicial body and as a supervisory board. Not least, the coordination function on behalf of regional governments in relation to municipalities or other parts of public enterprise has become increasingly important since we have a fragmented government administration. The management of the counties, as many have done, is complicated, in the sense that they do tasks for twelve departments, and that the management lines go both through the Ministry of Renewal and Administration and directly from the individual department to the individual counties. There are no other state agencies that have a task span covering the areas of responsibility of as many departments as the counties have. I am pleased that the Committee of the Regions sees that the professional priority of the individual tasks must be given to the departments, just as clearly as they see the coordination responsibility of the Ministry of Innovation and Administration. The governance that we have pointed to is difficult and demanding, but is something that we're constantly working on, to come up with a better track. Of course, we take seriously the comments made by the Committee and the comments made today. We've already started a work to improve the systems we have. We have been working on that for a while, and after the national audit report came, there was every reason to strengthen that work. We will work out a mechanism for the financing of county councils – together with the other departments that assign tasks to County. The aim is to identify solutions that take into account the internal coordination of the population, the adaptation to the needs of the counties and the adequacy of means of defence. In this context, an overview of the resource situation will also be drawn up in each area, which the Committee also calls for. The report of the National Audit Office does not cover all the responsibilities of the Office. We'll do that in the future. The National Audit Service believes that the Department has too little management information. Of course, we should look at this carefully, but at the same time I would like to stress that one must also consider whether there is a need for a different governance information from the one we have today, or whether that is the way we use the information today, which is the challenge. At least we don't have much desire for more reporting and more bureaucracy, but we want to see if we use the information we get, correctly and well enough. I have, of course, communicated to the Ministry of Justice the Committee's wish for a major communication on the status of social security and preparedness. Similarly, I have passed on to the Minister for Municipal Affairs what applies to the rules for supervision under Chapter 10(a) of the Municipality Act, and I wished for an evaluation when the rules have been in place for a few years. I would also like to pay great attention to the work on managing the office in the future. Even if we go through the situation, it's important that we don't wait for a report to lead, but that an actual grip on this from day one. So some comments about what has been taken up. To the representative Foss it is to say that it was the government he set up, and Erna Solberg as the municipal minister, who, for the sake of local self-government, limited the county officials' review of the municipal budgets. I take it ‘a little in mind’, but believe this was done in 2001–2002. Since then, the county officials have been responsible for nothing but checking that the municipal budget is in balance, and it is Robek's municipalities' budget that they will have a careful review of. However, both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Municipal Affairs have taken different steps in relation to Terra-saka and will come back to the Stortinge in an appropriate way — to the extent that one will come up with measures that will have to correct and step in and strengthen. There may be a check again. Time will tell. So the representatives from the Progress Party, which I might say mix up a little bit. They claim that because of scarce resources, county councillors need to give priority to the control of law and tasks relating to legal certainty on the one hand and what they call the review of municipal self-government and ‘future-oriented local policy decisions’ – as it says – on the other. I just want to remind the Progress Party that legal certainty is a continuous task that the state has in all sectors. The role of the judicial security function lies in both the Board of Appeal, the Board of Supervisors and the Board of Regulators. The legal security of the statesmen in the field of the environment and agriculture is there. But equally important in a legal security debate are the health and child protection tasks they have. This cannot be separated, as the Progress Party has done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e382	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e385	Thank you for the Council of State's response. It is natural that the municipalities on the Robek list have to be checked by the County – that is why they stand there. If it hadn't been no joke. When it comes to checking the balance of the municipality's budget, it asks what you're talking about, whether you're talking about the operating accounts or about the other balance sheet. If you stand there with a significant debt, it should also be a control task. I have recorded that the municipal councillor has views on the limitation of municipal access to borrowing. But my question is still relevant. Such a decision is irrelevant as long as no one controls it. And what's a borrowing? There has just been a discussion between the Ministry of Local Affairs and a few municipalities – not those now mentioned in the Terra case, but others. There are then the following questions: Will the Council of State ensure that the State in the revised national budget is able to monitor better the financial behaviour of municipalities of the type we have seen here?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e396	So, as I said, it was the government that Per-Kristian Foss put in, that took from the statesmen the task that he is now calling for them to have. This government has now started a work both through the Minister of Finance, under which the Credit Authority belongs, and through the Minister of State, who has asked the county councillors to look at the municipalities that have made these investments. Then we'll see when we get a comprehensive knowledge overview of what's happened. Then the government has to discuss whether there is a need to change laws or regulations, whether we should impose a task on the county officials that they once had, in order to avoid this happening in the future. I have a neighbouring municipality in Sogn and Fjordane, Bremen, which is among those who have invested. It turned out that the accountant had no overview either – he did not have access, and it was not in that part of what was an open budget. And he had no idea that these investments were made. Then to claim that the county officials here should have had a task, when, in fact, the Bondevik II government deprived them of the general supervision of the municipal budget, is to take a strong stand, I thought. But it is obvious that this situation is so serious that it is up to the Government to go carefully through both legislation and legislation, and therefore also the county councillors' duties in relation to the general municipal budget to see if they will once again be given the task of overseeing the municipal budget. We get to come back to the Storing with it in an appropriate way. Now we are essentially going to get an overview of what has happened. This is what the municipalities themselves do, and it is what we do based on the work that has been done by several government councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e407	Per-Christian Foss has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e411	I think the Council of State is wrong. It is not the case that the change made by the former government prevents the county officials from being able to supervise the municipalities' borrowings. I haven't asked if a general access to control of budgets – that's what I think is relatively wasted time – but it's in the special cases that are when municipalities speculate in shares and take borrowings that go far beyond the proper ones, you should have insight, information, competence and resources enough to control. My question to the Council of State did not change any laws, but the question was: Will the people of the state get the skills and resources enough to carry out this control to which they have access today, after the people of the county have their own interpretation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e421	I've answered this twice now. I can repeat it again: it will probably come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way after we have gone through the situation and get an overview, both in relation to the job that the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Municipal Affairs have seen, and not least in relation to the job that the municipalities themselves are doing here. But to have said it this way, if one is to base the Progress Party and the Right's alternative budget on the people of the next year, they will at least not have the economy or resources to do these kinds of tasks. Right cut with 612 million. kr to the state and department. The advance party's gonna cut $227 million. kr, alone, in the counties. At least there will be little resources left to deal with even more tasks – just as they have been said.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e428	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 895]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e444	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e451	From 1999 to 2008, there is a broad commitment to improving the provision of care to children and young people with mental health problems. This is part of a general commitment to psychiatry, adopted by the Stortinget on 17 June 1998 at the Roadmap for Mental Health. The plan was originally in force for the period 1999–2006, but remained in the course of the treatment of St.prp. No 1 adopted for 2003-2004 extended by two years, to 2008. The reason for this was that in some areas the target was still weak, so that several of the objectives would not be achieved in 2006. At the same time, data from Samdata have shown very low productivity in paediatric and juvenile psychiatry. The purpose of the Riksrevision study has been to illustrate the extent to which children and young people with mental health problems receive a satisfactory offer from municipalities and outpatient clinics. The audit has revealed more critical aspects of child and youth psychiatry that can be taken seriously. I would like to point out that an overall committee believes that there are shortcomings in the quality of services both at system level and at individual level. Very few enterprises have developed criteria for internal control and, among the municipal services, this work is very poor. The study shows that major challenges remain for municipalities in order to achieve holistic systems. It may also take a very long time for the patient to have a diagnosis, and many have not made any diagnosis at all. The conclusion, as the Committee reads the study, is that it must be difficult, not to say impossible, to provide targeted treatment as long as there is neither diagnosis nor individual treatment plan. The Committee notes that there is a clear perception in the professional community that many patients wait longer than is sound. It is also obvious that the Committee expects the Government to address these issues. The division of tasks between services is unclear and cooperation agreements and cooperation tools are not used as foreseen. With the absence of individual plans, I see that the cooperation between the manager and the offer at different levels is not working properly. I have noticed that the Riksrevision documents that there is no data for the total need for outpatient services of children and young people, and that waiting list data refers only to patients who receive an offer, and not patients who are rejected. The study clearly shows that the quality of public health statistics on mental health protection for children and young people is too poor. The data base may appear to show that psychiatry is not measurable and therefore more difficult to measure than parts of the somatic environment, making it difficult to find good quality indicators. I noticed that in 1995 1.1 measures were taken per. are treated per day. day and that studies show that only about 40 pst. of the time of the treatment providers is used for treatment, reporting and patient-related work. The aim of the escalation plan was to increase this figure by 50 pst. It is important here to underline the importance of ensuring adequate labelling of capacity. Such assistance is necessary to ensure that treatment providers can concentrate as much as possible on providing medical assistance. The study shows that the objectives of paediatric psychiatry have been achieved in part, but that waiting time is long and increasing. The reasons are, according to the Riksrevision, more. Although capacity has increased, this has not offset the geographical differences and the increase in productivity has not been as high as foreseen. In addition, there is a bias in the distribution of trade unions, and the cooperation between municipal services and between municipal services and specialist health services is too poor. The National Audit Office points out that questions about how productivity can be measured may have removed the attention from what can be done to increase the proportion of time spent on direct patient-related work, and that the study therefore raises questions as to whether the measurement indicators used to measure productivity are valid. Without valid and reliable indicators, it is, in my view, unfortunate to link the funding of outpatient clinics directly to the recording of treatment activity, as has been done in today’s reimbursement system. This may include, inter alia: provide unintended consequences for the organisation of the offer, e.g.: the system acts as a barrier to the use of outpatient teams, which the central authorities have sought to stimulate. I would like to point out that, in its attitude, the Committee writes that it is expected that the Government will continuously assess measures to ensure that indicators are as accurate as possible. In view of this, I would suggest that the document be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e477	With regard to the views of the majority of committees, the rapporteur has presented this in an excellent way. So I want to use my speaking time to say a little bit about the challenges we face in child and youth psychiatry. As stated in the Riksrevision report, there are significant challenges in measuring results in this area. When using the three indicators, the number of patients, the number of job vacancies and the number of interventions per person. the patient as the starting point for the productivity analysis, it is obvious that the weighting between the indicators will have a significant impact on the outcome. However, providing a true and fair picture of reality is a reason to ask questions. It is urgent to find more reliable ways of measuring productivity in children’s and young people’s psychiatry. Another important area to be addressed is the waiting time. It is not acceptable when the western region has an average waiting time for patients of 104 days, as shown by the study. In addition, some outpatient clinics may not consider a maximum of seven days as the responsible waiting time in the event of severe psychological reactions following trauma and crisis, while other clinics claim that the waiting time may be up to 90 days. We shouldn't be familiar with such big differences in offers. The last point I want to touch on is how to ensure good quality offers in this complex field. In this context, it is important to keep in touch with the users of the services and their organisations. Good desktop solutions are not always perceived the same way when you are exposed to them. In all treatment settings, time plays an important role. Not least in childhood and youth psychiatry, it is important that caregivers take the time they need. A unanimous committee has therefore underlined the importance of the actual use of the hours worked by treatment professionals for patients, and that, for example: tasks which may be carried out by commercial personnel are carried out by them and those responsible for the direct processing are thus relieved. Everyone agrees that a satisfactory offer must be made to children and young people. I am sure that the Government, through its efforts in this area, will contribute to this, and that the Council of State is doing well what has already been done with the challenges pointed out by the study.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e492	The national audit has been conducted over the period 2002–2005 and identifies major shortcomings and weaknesses in the supply of mental health problems to children and young people. It's alarming, but it also fits very well with the signals you still get from others, both in patients, relatives and those who work in the field. Good measurement indicators and clear responsibilities are important prerequisites for developing a good service provision. However, this study shows that there is still a lot to be done, and it is asked whether this does not apply as much today. The tool used to measure productivity reflects little if what appears to be an increase in productivity has actually led to the provision of adequate help to several patients. Some patients will need treatment for psychiatrists, doctors or psychologists. The proportion of such specialists varied from 10 pst. to 78 pst. in outpatient clinics. I have also mentioned this problem with Sylvia Brustad earlier this year – it was still a major defect. The study shows that many outpatient clinics have a long way to go before the coverage target is reached, and also shows that there are considerable differences in capacity between health regions — but also within each region. There can be no evidence of purely professional judgement when the frequency of consultation varies from 12 to 66 days on average from one paediatric psychiatric clinic to the other. When the number of patients is used as a measure of productivity in outpatient clinics, it appears that having a high frequency of consultation, clinics can achieve an improvement in productivity of several hundred percent. The study also shows that no data are available for those who are rejected, but only for those who receive an offer. What outpatient clinics consider to be a proper waiting period varies from seven days to a whole 180 days at three of the clinics. In view of this, there is reason to ask a serious question as to whether the decision to provide further treatment is taken in relation to the individual patient’s needs. As was also said here, today's reimbursement scheme also proves to be extremely unfortunate for outpatient clinics and the outpatient teams, as long as they are not covered financially. But it's going to be an expense, which in the next round hits the offer at the outpatient clinic itself. Studies show that less than 3 pst. of patients had an individual plan. One might wonder how targeted a treatment can be, when in many cases the diagnosis is also lacking. There is particular reason for concern that this responsibility remains unclear. Only a small number of municipal service providers have an overview of the proportion of resources allocated to the psychiatry escalation plan used for children and young people under 18 years of age. Before and now data are available to a small extent. Capacity varies greatly from municipality to municipality, and the Riksrevision asks questions about the needs of users being met well enough throughout the country, especially in the case of municipalities with the lowest capacity. There is also reason to ask whether local authorities give sufficient priority to the development of the provision of mental health care to children and young people by providing properly qualified personnel. The study also points out that there is a lack of contact with the user organisations. The National Audit Office’s study concludes that the Ministry and the follow-up and governance of regional health establishments have not been able to ensure an equivalent offer and sufficient capacity anywhere. There is considerable uncertainty as to whether the objectives of the escalation plan are met. We still see that today. The National Audit Office’s study is comprehensive and representative, and the Progress Party now sees a major danger that the escalation that has taken place within the psychiatry will not be maintained and continued when the escrow funds are introduced into the 2009 framework funding. It is also worth noting that tomorrow’s Stortinget will adopt a shorter waiting guarantee for children and young people under 23. If the total capacity is not further increased and private services are increasingly offered, this may lead to lower offers to other age groups. This may also lead to an even higher threshold for assistance for children and young people or to fewer consultations for the prevention of time-limits. What is presented in this report will then be reinforced, but the question will be whether or not current indicators can be measured at all. The Progress Party shares the concerns raised by the National Audit Office’s investigations and considers it important that good measurement indicators are developed to care for patients. Developments in this field must also be closely monitored by the Government, and the Government should now clarify how the intentions of the escalation plan are to be secured and the objectives achieved in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e515	The national audit review of the field is a strong reading. It leaves an impression of an area where most is governed by randomness, where there is a lack of knowledge about the supply both quantitatively and particularly qualitatively, and where no equivalent treatment is guaranteed for those in need of services. There are very few areas of Norwegian health care where the condition can be compared with this, fortunately. It is therefore close to asking the question: how is it possible for a sector to be left out as dramatically as this sector has become, both quantitatively and qualitatively? I believe that the explanation for this needs to be sought in what we pointed out in the first priority study in Norwegian health policy back in 1987, namely that the alternative to a conscious and thoughtful priority in health policy is priority according to the decibel method. In other words, those areas that have well-organised lobby groups, which are able to talk their case through the media, are being implemented, while those areas that for various reasons are not able to organise themselves as effective lobby groups are receiving nothing. It is easy to see that children and young people with mental health problems are not a strong potential organisational size, nor will they ever be. There is also no reason to assume that the close relatives will have the full potential as a well-organised lobby group. It places ever greater responsibility on political governance to ensure that the area is prioritised in the way it deserves. Professionally, we want to have a health care system that is evidence-based, i.e. based on well-documented knowledge. When the Riksrevisie demonstrates that outpatients may have such different assessments of what is a proper waiting time for treatment after traumatic experiences, that it ranges from seven – to 180 days, there is at least one thing that is safe, and that is that this is not evidence-based. It is not based on scientifically proven knowledge at all, and it is very worrying. There is also a mystery about how, year after year, not to say decades after decade, productivity in terms of patient treatment in a sector is dramatically low, without it appearing to be possible to do anything about it. Here I would like to challenge the responsible state council. We have repeatedly raised the question in this room of getting a better overview of the total professional resources available to improve treatment provision, regardless of whether it is public or private contract specialists, or private hospital services. The Council of State has promised to provide such an overview. So far, we haven't seen anything in the overview. There is reason to believe that there is significant available capacity if you are willing to use it independently of the organisational form. For the benefit of patients, it should be possible to reach an agreement that it is not whether a psychologist or a psychiatrist is a public employee or is a private person, who should be a determining factor in whether or not he is available to meet the need. It is frightening that in very vulnerable stages of life, children and young people are not guaranteed better treatment than they are today. Therefore, I hope the Council of State will be able to tell Stortinget what she intends to do to create a better knowledge base and a better professional offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e537	In the survey, the national audit has looked at the extent to which children and young people with mental health problems receive satisfactory services from municipalities and outpatient clinics. It turns out that many children and young people do not get the help they need. There are strong words from some speakers, and it may be with good reason that they have. The waiting time is too long, and the quality of the services varies from part of the country to part of the country. The cooperation between the community health service and the specialist health service is also not good enough. Data are not available to show total needs of children and young people for services. The waiting lists do not record those who are rejected, only those who receive an offer, etc. The roadmap for mental health will be in its tenth and last year in 2008. Throughout these years, there has been a significant improvement in the provision of services to people with mental health problems. This applies to both children and adults. Also in the time that has elapsed since the Riksrevision investigation was carried out, the offers have been improved. However, there is still a long way to go before everyone gets a satisfactory offer quickly enough. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will highlight in particular the importance of good cooperation and communication between the first and second line service. It is positive that a waiting period guarantee is now provided for children and young people under the age of 23 with mental and drug dependence. However, I believe that this waiting guarantee must be seen as a first step on the road to ensuring that there are no waiting times for children and young people for mental health protection, because this is above all a very vulnerable group. However, this must not only be a paper guarantee but must have real content. Let me also underline the important role of the school health service. This role is important, not least because a good school health service will be able to detect mental problems early and thus prevent children and young people from developing serious mental problems. That's how it's going to be able to deal with problems right away, before they get to the worse. It is therefore of great importance to strengthen the provision of health services in secondary and secondary schools. The competence of children and young people with mental illness must also be strengthened in the municipalities. It is serious and alarming that so many children and young people suffer from mental illness. Help with these and prevention must be one of the priorities of health care. The National Audit Office’s survey highlights many issues that it is important for the Ministry to address and follow up. The importance of the funding system underpinning the target of outpatient activities and the time spent on the transfer of competences from the specialist health service to the primary health service must also be underlined.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e550	The National Auditor's report is in many ways sad reading, sad in the sense that there's so much that doesn't work well enough within the help supply, especially for a group that we in this room often talk about is the group we're going to bet most on. Making it clear from the National Audit Office that the provision of help to children and young people with mental health problems does not work is actually quite strong. The positive thing about the report is that he's so clear. He says so clearly that there is not enough fine words about betting on children and young people with mental problems. I also mean that the Riksrevision here says that there is no money that is decisive either. We can't hide behind licenses when we're going to solve problems. There must be something more structure behind what's being done. The National Audit Office also points to many areas of improvement, and I'm going to mention three areas that the Left thinks it might be easier to make improvements. The first point I want to mention is interaction. Everyone knows that the community's help and specialist health services work best if one gets to interact. What's so strange is that you haven't been able to make it any better. Here it must be possible for the Council of State to instruct or come up with good ideas – I don't know how to do it. There's a lot of interaction going on, but we're not. It's almost unlikely that it should be so bad. Seventh and last goes beyond this patient group. Another point that the Riksrevision mentions, and that I think is an area where it's pretty amazing that one has not come anymore, is this with an individual plan. There the report says that almost none of these patients have an individual plan. And what's even more amazing is that the report states that it's unclear who's responsible for making these plans. Here it has to be cleaned in some way. We cannot live on with this. The third and last point that I want to mention is the low threshold supply. When it comes to the school services and the health centre for young people, the Committee agrees that it is a field of activity, so we must, of course, show it more strongly. But as I said, it doesn't help with fine words. Here, at least one of these points has to be taken over and especially these three points have to go together: to get interaction, to get an individual level in place and to get these low-threshold offerings to be really strengthened when there is a political signal about it. I'll end with the National Auditor's comment. He says the following: ‘It is unacceptable that so few children and young people with mental health problems have had an individual plan drawn up and that for many it is not clear where the responsibility lies. It is also surprising that cooperation between the different levels of the response chain is so poor that it has direct consequences for patients.’ I urge the Council of State to address this immediately.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e570	Let me first say that I take the report very seriously. I believe that the report refers to a number of findings that are important for changing some things, and for developing the service further. There has been an overall objective in the escalation plan – as it has been, and, as I see it, is broad support in Stortinget – that all municipalities should provide children and young people who needed it, equivalent offers and equal opportunities for development. This report shows that there are still considerable differences between municipalities and also between some hospitals and regions. I take that very seriously. There is no reason, for example: in Arendal, at DPS there, has virtually no waiting time, while in other parts of the country you have nine, ten, eleven and twelve months waiting time. That's one of the reasons why the government has proposed it. I hope the Stortinget tomorrow will join a new and separate waiting guarantee for children and young people under the age of 23 who have mental and/or drug problems, with fixed times of maximum waiting time. This must apply to the whole country. Then I also take most seriously what was mentioned in the report in terms of lack of interaction. It is a challenge for this part of healthcare, which unfortunately is for other parts of the service. The Social and Health Directorate, on behalf of us – also with the Ministry – has been commissioned to find out more tools to improve cooperation for those who need help. I also take most seriously what is said here about individual levels. There is something not only this part of the service parts, but also others: Individual levels are to be used throughout the service, including in this respect. That is what we are going to follow up with the regional health companies, and also with the municipalities. With regard to outpatient teams, which several speakers have been involved in here, I believe that some of the future efforts in the field of mental health protection will be more about specialists having to go out to people where they live, and that they are not the ones who need help, who necessarily have to drag your specialists. Then I believe – and we are doing it – that we need to look at both the indicators used, the funding solutions we have, encourage them enough, and do what we can to increase the use of outpatient teams. I think there might be something there. Sick if the majority of outpatient teams are in the basic frame, it may also have something to do with the funding system. So until what several speakers have been talking about in the case of low-threshold offers. I'm sharing it completely. The government is very concerned that we need to do even more to do preventive health work, not least in the school health service. It is said to be too poor when, on average, there is one health sister per year. 1000 students. There's also a lot of variation here, but it's quite obvious that we'll be able to reach even more if we can get to them earlier. That's what the government is working on. There is also a challenge, because psychologists, who are tried out in several municipalities and who are in school, are also not counted properly in the system, even when it comes to funding. But it's clear that this way we're helping a lot more people, instead of getting a lot of people late to help out. So we're doing well to improve most of what the Riksrevision has pointed out in its report. I have also noticed what the members of the committee have said, and that is what we are taking with us as a potential for improvement. I also feel the need to say – in line with the fact that a large size has been behind the escalation plan – that we have, after all, reached quite a long time in the years that this escalation plan has been. We are now able to offer far more children and young people a much better offer than was the case before, so that we can achieve many of the goals set in the escalation plan, not least in terms of the economy for the last year of the escalation plan, i.e. next year. But that doesn't mean, of course, that the government or anyone else who's responsible is calm and looking at it when it's still something we have to do with. We're going to help us do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e587	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e591	In its meeting with the Health and Care Committee on the 2008 State Budget, the Norwegian Medical Association states that: «The offer is deficient as a result of undercapacity and underquality in the overall service provision. A separate guarantee with a shorter period of treatment does not create a new treatment offer in itself.» The last one is completely self-evident. It is also a crossroads that, in the absence of other tools, a general waiting guarantee will be introduced, which has otherwise been agreed that we have abandoned as an instrument of Norwegian health policy, because it was a poorly suited instrument. Instead, there was a broad consensus that individual deadlines should be met, based on professional medical evaluation for the individual patient. That should be the logical thing in this field as well. I well interpret the proposal for a general deadline as a kind of abstinence reaction, in the absence of other and more appropriate and accurate instruments. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State directly: how does she intend to take on the greatest seriousness – as she herself said – the finding that the individual level is practically absent in this field? Where will the Council of State place responsibility? The National Audit Office points out that the ambiguity of responsibility for individual levels is the main explanation for the existence of negligence. Where will the Council of State be responsible for ensuring that the individual plan is complied with, and what means will it use to ensure that this is actually done? My second question is that the Council of State was not able to answer in its statement, namely the promise to provide a proper overview of the total professional capacity in this area, both private contract specialists, private institutions and the public. Will Stortingen soon get this overview, so that you know what the situation is?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e605	I notice that the representative's pay from the right here calls the new waiting guarantee for children and young people for a waiver reaction from the Government. It's not. It is a genuine and sincere commitment for those children and young people who have been waiting and, unfortunately, still in parts of the country are waiting too long for treatment to get it faster. So I think it's unacceptable that children and young people in need of quick help wait for 9,10,11 and 12 months, especially when we know that some children and young people have been waiting and waiting for months and years before they even got there. That's why the government has suggested that we within the vulnerable groups we're talking about here, we have to have deadlines that make us actually manage to give them help at a long earlier time. So I'm concerned that the number of people each treatment treats in a year, a week, a month, needs to be higher. There are excellent, beautiful people here who make a lot of effort, but – once again – there is no reason for one in some district psychiatric centers to have zero waiting time and others to have months. Then there's also something about the whole organization. It's not that the DPS in Arendal and elsewhere in the country get a difference with money. No, they get about the same with money, but they do things differently. That's why I also think it's possible, within this area, to have a waiting guarantee, which means that we're able to catch up with the children and young people we're talking about at a long earlier time. In addition to being able to get hold of them even earlier, we need to have a preventive, low-threshold school health service, etc. We also review whether there is anything about the funding system that makes us unable to get access to children and young people as early as we would like. As regards the individual level question, that responsibility must be clarified. I'm going to take the responsibility I have for regional health companies. I believe that the legislation in this area is quite clear, and I am sorry that it is not being followed in this area, as it is in other areas. There is a management responsibility on the entities responsible for this. It's said I'll follow up, so it'll be followed up with someone who needs help. When it comes to questions about the overall capacity, private and public, I am, like Wage, concerned that we get the best possible use of this for those who need help, both private and public. We're working very actively on this. I have a close dialogue throughout this field both with the user organisations and with the professional organisations. I had a meeting with the Psychologists' Association last Friday. It is the government's intention that we should be able to take advantage of all the good forces we have in this area, whether they are private or public, and that we ensure equivalence in the offer, regardless of social status and where one lives in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e616	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 895]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e632	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there will be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e639	The Committee shall present a unanimous opinion. The Court of Auditors has had two objectives in its investigation, namely to clarify whether satisfactory control is being carried out by granting and paying cash aid and whether the cash support scheme is adequately managed. On the other hand, the National Audit Board has not considered whether the cash support scheme as a whole is appropriate or whether it has other adverse side effects. This question has also not been considered by the Committee. So we are not now asking questions about the appropriateness of the entire cash support scheme. It is part of the general political debate. The results of the Riksrevision study are in many areas supportive. It clearly shows that municipalities give control of whether children use kindergarten or receive cash support, low priority. Over 60 pst. of the 103 municipalities that answered the National Audit Office’s questionnaire, state that there are no others who take over the work on the cash support register if the one who normally carries out the task is gone. When the National Audit Office can show that due to its absence alone, 30 error-payment cases were received in one month, it shows the extent to which this may be the case. The fact that neither the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality nor the Directorate of Labour and Welfare seem so far to have been engaged in following up the scheme does not help to improve the image. Already in 1999, the Rikstrygdeverket assessed the number of malpayments under the cash support scheme as high. However, the National Audit Office’s investigation shows that the number of mispayments remains at the same high level seven years later. An overall committee finds the large number of malpayments alarming and assumes that the department immediately implements measures to minimise the number of malpayments and that there is provision for follow-up of recovery procedures at all local NAV offices. The next report on this should show significant improvements. The National Audit Office further states that there is a lack of evidence of procedural and internal control of the NAV offices. There is a lack of common practice and there is no general requirement for training and training of staff. These are matters that I expect the Council of State and the Department to address. I have also noticed that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has so far not shown sufficient interest in asking for or receiving information about the local results of the cash support scheme. That's how I see it, seriously when, for example. EEA citizens receive cash support without sufficient evidence of the basis for receiving the aid and without the establishment of satisfactory control mechanisms. It is not satisfactory when the National Audit Office’s review of foreign case files reveals that more than half of the cases examined do not contain sufficient evidence and that the legislation is not followed up in a majority of cases. An overall committee therefore underlines the importance of the need to establish even better and more effective control systems related to welfare systems. It is not pleasant at all when the Riksrevision can conclude that errors and deficiencies with the scheme that have been known since 2000 are still not rectified. It is now expected, and I trust it, that the leadership of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, in cooperation with the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, will continue to set up satisfactory procedures, assuming that the Committee of Control and Constitutional Affairs is kept properly informed on developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e658	I allow myself to make some comments, but I rely to a great extent on the statements made by the rapporteur. I refer – as the rapporteur also did – to the fact that this time the investigation does not concern the cash support scheme as such, but therefore how the scheme should be managed by public authorities. It is alarming that neither the Ministry, the Labour and Welfare Act nor the municipalities seem to have been so very concerned about the management of the scheme. This applies to both control and follow-up and control. The reporting by municipalities is a very important tool for the NAVs to make correct payments. It is critical that many municipalities do not prioritize registering kindergarten children in cash support age. This is one of the reasons why there are mispayments of cash support. I now expect this to be the grip of the ministry. Unfortunately, there are some mispayments of all social security benefits. We know that. Fortunately, a part is also being repaid. We also always have to expect some mispayments because in some cases the cause of social security benefits will change at a time when the payment is already on the way to the recipient. For example, after a long waiting period a babysitting may take place in the middle of a month. However, it is important that there is not a lack of registration from the public authority or late processing that too many errors occur. We expect this to be taken seriously and done something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e669	The National Audit Office’s investigation has revealed deficiencies in different fields regarding the management of the cash support scheme. I take the Riksrevision report and the Committee's comments seriously. The Ministry of Labour and the Directorate of Labour and Welfare have started work together to improve the management of the scheme, and all the critical points of the audit will be corrected. The administrative audit has shown that the department and the department need to cooperate more closely to minimise the error payments. This is done through the management dialogue. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has presented various measures to improve the management of the cash support scheme. Procedures and control procedures are in place. The challenge is to get the entire floor to comply with these. The Directorate has clarified and strengthened the procedures with all the local NAV offices. The review carried out by the National Audit Office shows that, in particular in the EEA cases, the procedure is deficient. The Ministry knew during the introduction of the cash support that it would be difficult to control the use of kindergarten abroad, so the cash support was not exported from the outset. However, the European Court of Justice has held that such performance must be exported to the EEA territory. For several years, the ETA has focused on improving the management of EEA matters, including: a specific tool has been used in the proceedings. The National Audit Office's report shows that as local NAVs deal with few EEA cases of cash support per year. employees are uncertain about procedures and regulations. The collection of cash support cases in larger units is a measure to improve the quality of the processing process. It is inculcated that cash support should never be paid without the applicant himself having informed whether the child is using publicly supported kindergarten, because registers of children in kindergarten cannot be established abroad. I agree that the number of fault payment cases is too high. Error payments are largely due to the fact that NAV does not receive a timely notification of the child’s use of kindergarten. Parents are obliged to notify NAV accordingly. At the same time, kindergartens and municipalities should report to NAV every month on children in kindergarten and their periods of residence. The Ministry will send a letter during December to all municipalities and kindergartens to intensify this reporting obligation. Several measures are already in place to improve governance. I can assure you that the department will have a major focus on the matter in the future, and I will inform the Storting appropriately about the actions taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e684	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e700	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetition after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e707	The purpose of the National Audit Office’s study has been to illustrate the extent to which the Ministry of the Environment discharges its national responsibility for sustainable spatial planning and land use under the Planning and Building Act. The following factors have been assessed: the extent to which land status and land development in Norway are in line with the objective of sustainable land use in terms of the extent to which the municipal planning system is used to achieve the objective of sustainable land-use planning and land-use management to the extent that the Ministry of the Environment discharges its responsibility for governance and coordination for sustainable land-use planning and land-use management; The National Audit Office’s survey shows that the land status and land development in Norway in several areas do not respect values and principles The size of the site has focused on ensuring sustainable land use. There is an overall committee that indicates that sustainable development is the goal of the world society through a number of international processes under the auspices of the UN. The concept is defined as a development that meets today’s needs without destroying the possibilities of future generations to meet their needs. The objective of sustainable development has been leading Norwegian land and resource management since the early 1990s. The pre-goods principle and that the tolerance limits of nature must not be exceeded shall be used as a basis for management and environmental considerations shall be incorporated as a premise into all land use. The Committee took note of the Riksrevision's objective of Document No. 3:11 for 2006-2007 has been to illustrate the extent to which the Ministry of the Environment discharges its overall responsibility to ensure sustainable land planning and land disposal under the Planning and Building Act. The survey data collection was completed in October 2006. During the Committee's work, the Committee has divided itself into a majority and a number of minorities. It is a large majority – all except the Advancement Party – and I expect that any spokesman for that majority will explain his views. However, there is an overall committee which makes an important point: that responsibility for ensuring development lies with the Ministry of the Environment. The Committee also recalls that we have strict legislation relating to land management, cf. the coastal zone and protection areas. Then, the Committee says, it is important that a distinction be made between the coastal zone management in the interior of Oslofjord and the management in areas where the pressure is much smaller and the topography is often different. The Committee therefore considers that the situation regarding the follow-up of national land objectives is somewhat more nuanced than the Riksrevision report claims. The report does not focus enough on the large-scale efforts of local elected representatives to ensure positive and environmentally friendly development in their municipalities. A minority, consisting of the Advance Party and the Right, indicates that in Norway, land management is assigned to the primary municipality. This is a principle based on respect for the local people's rule, and that a local knows best where the shoe prints. The members of the Progress Party and the Right believe that the burden of proof for intervention against the primary municipalities in their land management should lie with the State. In other words, in a primary municipality where both the employees and perhaps the elected politicians have been on an inspection and are thoroughly involved, it can be permitted to build a cabin or expand a cabin, or build a house, and they find that it does not bother any neighbors, or that there are no real reasons for moving towards it in the local area, and they come to say yes, for example. an application for a derogation should not, in the view of the Right Party and of the Advance Party, be such that, either in the State or in the State without further delay, with a pennetrek, only because they have looked at some maps, they may decide to review the decision. I think it's nice that parties like the Central Party and the Workers' Party here underestimate their own local people's elected representatives to the extent that they do, for example. do not wish to remove the State's right of objection, as we have many times proposed. In fact, if you think that you know best where the shoe is printed locally, you should accept your decisions instead of tightening up and making it more difficult to obtain exemptions, more difficult to get permits. It is at least the view of the Progress Party that in this area we could actually relieve the County of some work tasks, tasks that a previous debate showed that the County really lacks resources. We should be able to allow local elected bodies to have the final decision-making power in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e741	The Planning and Building Act, which is a cross-sectoral law, is the most central instrument for achieving sustainable land development. The law empowers the municipality to draw up legally binding spatial plans to manage the land use in each municipality. This is to maximise the benefits for the individual and for society of land use and population. The National Audit Office's report questions whether municipal spatial planning contributes sufficiently to the development of land towards sustainable development. It is important to note that municipalities have the opportunity to adopt regulatory plans that deviate from the municipal plan, if the municipality and regional and state authorities find that this will not conflict with the intention of the municipal plan or national leadership. There is a broad political consensus that the municipality should continue to play a central role in land planning and management. This is important for the local government not to be overrun by different key actors. The Ministry of the Environment has overall responsibility for coordinating the Government’s efforts to define and follow up the environmental policy objectives at all levels and for different sectors. I agree with the National Audit Office when they stress the importance of coordination within the departments, coordination with the sectoral Directorates and cooperation between all the Environment Directorates. This is an important work. It is important for the local government that the national frameworks become clearer and easier to deal with. It will provide better opportunities for adequate overall and long-term management. Local elected representatives make a great effort to ensure positive and environmentally friendly development in their municipalities. In some areas where the pressure is high for land use — the coastal zone is one example — there may be conflicts, for example: between environmental considerations and economic development considerations. Such conflicts put great pressure on the individual elected representatives and make it demanding to make the necessary adjustments. In such cases, good contact between the State and the state and clear national leadership is important, so that good flow is made in the proceedings in the municipality concerned. I consider it necessary to stress that economic and social sustainability is an important prerequisite for achieving the objective of sustainable land development. These objectives cannot be achieved in the long term if, at the same time, basic ecological sustainability is not adequately taken into account. I am confident that the Government will follow up the study and work actively to solve the challenges that have been made visible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e756	I just want to make a brief comment on the discussion of geographical differentiation, which the Committee agrees with in its comment. It is quite obvious that, in terms of management of the coastal zone and of different natural areas, there is less pressure in some areas of the country and greater pressure in other areas of the country. For us in the Central Party, it is important to stress that it must also have effects on the administration and the planning that need to be developed in the different parts of the country. What the rapporteur has pointed out in the comment, and which the Committee agrees with, is that we should distinguish between the coastal zone management in the inner Oslofjord and the management in areas where, for example, the pressure is much less and the topography is often different. The Committee therefore considers that the situation regarding the follow-up of national objectives is more nuanced than the Riksrevision report claims. I would also like to stress what is said here, that a greater emphasis must be placed on the great efforts of local elected representatives to ensure positive and environmentally friendly development in their areas. It must also be a basis for future policy. We have great confidence in the local government and that it provides responsible land management. In the balance between e.g. industrial development and the protection of land, it is important that local conditions be given great importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e769	I am pleased that the National Audit Office has put the spotlight on spatial planning, which is so central to sustainable development. We have noted the results of the study, which shows that spatial planning in several areas is not in line with the objectives set by the Storting for sustainable development. These are, of course, results that we will take very seriously, and that we will follow up on in all our further work. I also noticed, in brackets, that Carl I. Hagen spoke in warm order and with considerable enthusiasm about the precautionary principle and about the resilience of nature. I appreciated that. Then to the substance of the Committee's comment. On the one hand, I note that there is a broad consensus that municipalities should have the primary responsibility for planning and managing their own areas if they are not included in State protection. There's no disagreement about the starting point, that it's the municipalities. But I also noticed that a large majority of people emphasise that national interests need to be safeguarded through a clear land policy towards municipalities, which communicates what is national interests and, in some cases, will also communicate what is Norwegian international obligations. There are many often conflicting objectives, and sustainable land management can only be achieved through good information, impact assessment and open, active dialogue. I also noticed what the representative Ivar Skulstad said about the need for better coordination of government agencies and agencies in this area. There's something we're definitely going to bring on, and see if we can't get to. This Riksrevisions report was finalised in 2006. It is valid until 2005, so it goes back slightly in time. Some measures have been implemented. The government has put in place a new enhanced land policy. We have proposed that the impact of land policy be made visible in the State budget, a new area of performance consistent with sustainable development planning. We have presented new national guidelines on wind power. We have presented – and we will further present – measures for a restrictive purchasing centre policy, for comprehensive mountain land planning and for the clarification and tightening of coastal zone policy. Let me also say that I agree with what both the representative Lars Peder Breck and the representative Carl I. Hagen said on that point. We agree that there should be a differentiation between different areas. It's not necessarily that what's right in Kragerø or at Tjøme is also right in Porsangs or in Sogn. We will come back to Stortinget and see if it is possible to differentiate this in line with the Committee's wishes. Let me end by saying that I will soon put forward proposals for a new part of the Planning and Building Act, where we will use the experience of today's 1985 law, and will propose a number of new tools for municipalities. Its aim is to ensure more sustainable land management and more targeted and accurate planning also in relation to the global challenges we face in terms of climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e784	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e800	On behalf of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after each post, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e807	The central government investment fund for industrial activities in developing countries — Norfund — is intended to contribute with equity and other risk capital as well as to provide loans and guarantees for the development of sustainable business in developing countries. Norfund has been operational since December 1997. In 2004, it was set to target about one third of the investments to be made in the least developed countries. The target was further increased in 2005 to at least one third. Over the last few years, there have been many negative media reports about Norfund. It has been about Norfund's tasks and business philosophy, which pursues Norwegian development policy, and issues that have had to do with personal and management problems in the organisation, including an alert case. The National Audit Office’s investigation has been aimed at elucidating whether the operation and management of Norfund have been carried out in accordance with Storting’s decisions and assumptions. The Court of Auditors has, among other things: reviewed the organisation and internal control and management systems of the business, the reporting by the Board of Directors, the procedures for investment decisions and a selection of Norfund’s investments. The study concludes that Norfund has not fulfilled the geographical priorities underlying the allocations and that there has not been enough focus on the geographical priorities of participation in investment and loan projects. Of the investments made, 24 pst. have been invested in the least developed countries. By the end of 2006, there were 17 p.m. the investments made in Africa. At the same time, it is worth noting that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in its reply to the Riksrevision points out that projects adopted after 2004 have been 30 pst. And over, but this has not been enough to reach 30 pst. in total investments. Norfund, together with Statkraft, has established SN Power which invests in power development. Together with similar companies in the United Kingdom and the Netherlands, Norfund operates Aureos Capital Ltd. Investments through these companies have contributed to a further decline in the proportion invested in the poorest countries. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that Norfund constantly put the primary focus on helping the poorest countries. At the same time, you see that it is challenging both to find good projects to invest in and partners to invest with. SN Power increases the potential for greater commitment to the development of clean energy both in the poorest countries and in other developing countries. Cooperation between countries, as in Aureos, also opens up opportunities that Norfund had not had alone on his own keel. However, it is important that the Ministry follow this closely, so that investment through Norfund benefits poor countries and thus contributes to achieving the development objectives. Let me then briefly say a few words about the more organizational conditions in Norfund. It is positive that, after a new government started to operate in the autumn of 2005, more active action was taken on work environment issues. Protection and alert procedures were established, which contributed to the response of the media-related alert. One might wonder that such schemes were not established in the past and there is reason to stress the importance of facilitating procedures and systems that allow employees to come up with criticism. I expect the Ministry to have an alert eye in the future both for the organisational aspects of Norfund's governance and for the poverty focus through the investments. The report and proposals of the National Audit Office must be actively used in the further development of the management and control systems of Norfund.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e830	First of all, let me say that there is a timely theme on which the National Audit Office has put the spotlight on, the relationship between the Stortinget's objective of a significant share of Norfund's investment to the least developed countries and the achievement of its objectives at this point. Before I get to that, let me also say that I, as the case-rapporteur, am very pleased with the positive process that has taken place in Norfund, where the control committee through correspondence with me and in other ways has played a very constructive role. I feel that this has now come into a good track. Norfund has a good government, led by Kristin Klemet. They have a new Executive Director, who has addressed the challenges. My feeling is that the organization Norfund itself is now on track. I will, of course, as the rapporteur said, keep an eye on this, and make sure that what I agree with should be a matter of course, continues to be in place. But there is every reason to trust both the Chairperson and the Executive Director that they have addressed the challenges. They deserve honor, and I want to use this opportunity to give it to them. We are in an intensified dialogue with Norfund to see how Norfund can better follow up the Storting's intention that a greater part of the investment should be made in the least developed countries. This applies both to the Aureos investment fund and to the clean energy investment. It's set of extra resources to bet on clean energy in Africa this year that comes. We hope that it can help raise the proportion of LDCs. It is true that this proportion has increased recently, but it has not increased enough. Let me finally point out the difficulties we are facing in this area. I think the Storting here will share my vision. The dilemma is that State power, which is the one party in SN Power, as a commercial player, naturally sees it as easier to invest in the middle-income countries than in the poorest countries. That is why we have seen not only direct investment from Statkraft, but also investment through SN Power in countries like the Philippines, Peru, Chile and others. Now we should not forget that these are countries that individually have many more poor than the vast majority of countries in Africa. There are very few countries in Africa that have as many poor people as the Philippines. The vast majority of African countries also do not have as many poor people as Peru. Commercial investments that can provide clean energy to countries such as Peru and the Philippines must be a good thing. I guess the Storting agrees. Norfund's task is, of course, to help get an extra power ashore like Mozambique or Uganda, to take two examples. This is a country with a high potential for hydropower, and none of the potentials that have been unleashed in recent times. My challenge to both Norfund and Statkraft has been: Let's see how we can find a system that can trigger as much commercial investment as possible in low-income countries, which will bring clean energy to poor people, and an extra pressure ashore in which it is much more difficult to invest, such as Mozambique and Uganda. There's now a dialogue between Statkraft and Norfund to see if you can get as much of both. I am also quite sure that the Storting's intention is not to do anything that limits investment in the middle-income countries. It is enough to seven and last – without saying the number on a tight arm – a greater proportion of the world's poor living in the middle-income countries than in the least-developed countries, so we need investment in clean energy both places. But, of course, we should fully follow the Storting's reference to more Norfund bet in the Least Developed Countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e839	It is for the Riksrevision to be relatively critical of the company in this report. Norfund has failed in many ways over a long time and on several important tasks. Let me put it another way: if Norfund is unable to increase his poverty rate, there is no reason to have the company. As the Council of State has just confirmed in its statement, it is in many of the middle-income countries that companies in the Western world, including Government, invest by themselves because it is profitable. Of course, it also helps the poor in the Philippines. I follow the reasoning of the Council of State at that point. However, it is particularly difficult to operate business activities in countries that do not have a functioning market economy, such as the United Kingdom. part of the African countries, the countries we are talking about as the MUL group, and some more. There may be a need for a state company. However, if this state-owned company has to do normal business and invest in trading companies in Asia – to take an example – in order to finance this, I believe that there is reason to ask questions about whether it is worth it in relation to what you get back for the money for poverty. I expect the Council of State, although he did not say so in his statement, to understand that investments such as Norfund are making must also follow the ethical rules that I assume apply to state activities. I expect the rules that apply to the State pension fund – abroad, also apply to Norfund’s investments. Entering into business activities in emerging economies in Asia is at risk, especially in the ethical field. The Committee also points out that the involvement through Aureos, which was also the subject of the case-rapporteur, may be well intended, but there have been two effects to date: less poverty concentration and less access to other private capital. The point of entering was that these companies might attract more private capital. You didn't do that. I hope you succeed. I share the honor of the Council of State for new management and new government, in the sense that I have expectations that there is a basis for a honor. You don't know that until you see a new report, if you want, and before the results show up. With regard to the comments about the presentation of accounts and accounting procedures in the company, I consider it quite obvious and assume that new management and new governance follow this up, of course, because this kind of criticism cannot be on state companies – I kept saying in the long run, President, but I think I say: at all. This should not be done in State companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e854	Norfund’s objective is to contribute with equity and other risk capital to the provision of loans and guarantees for the development of sustainable business in developing countries. The objective of the Fund shall be achieved by making profitable investments in private enterprises in developing countries and thus supporting industrial development which would otherwise not be undertaken in those countries as a result of high risks. The Fund shall balance its economic objectives and performance with its social and environmental objectives and Norfund must adapt its activities to international, national and institutional framework conditions. I will allow myself to mention in this connection that in the Foreign Affairs Committee we had visits from some concerned representatives who drew attention to Statkraft's investment in a large pond in Laos, where the environmental objectives, which were reasonably clear, had not been satisfactorily achieved. I hope that it is possible to follow up that part through dialogue with Statkraft to ensure that this does not affect the local population unfairly. Furthermore, I would like to point out that the Riksrevision study concludes that Norfund has not fulfilled the geographical priorities of the Stortinget on the basis of the appropriations, and that Norfund has not had a sufficient focus on the geographical priorities of participating in investment or loan projects. The geographical priorities have also been further weakened in cooperation with Aureos and SN Power. However, I am pleased that the minister said that this should be looked at and see if there are opportunities to meet the Great Britain's clear priorities. The Committee emphasises the importance of continuing to focus on sustainable economic development in the poorest countries. I would like to point out that in its 2008 budget proposal, the Government announced that it would like to contribute by increasing imports into Norway from the poorest countries, and that the Government has carried out a review of the Norwegian Customs Preferential System for developing countries, the so-called GSP scheme, and is committed to improving it. It appears that customs preferences alone are proving inadequate for the poorest countries. The customs and quota-free market access system for all products from LDCs has so far had little effect. There is therefore a need for different measures to contribute to the implementation, knowledge and increased use of the GSP scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e865	Let me just briefly sign out a couple of the things that have been said. It is obvious that the representative of Per-Kristian Foss points out that Norfund should take seriously the points that come from the Riksrevision on accounting. It is just as obvious – but important to say so – that Norfund, in the same way as I assume that all other Norwegian state-owned businesses, as well as private enterprises, follow the very highest ethical standards in its business. There is zero tolerance for corruption and a good relationship with trade unions. It's about keeping, of course, laws and rules in the countries you invest in. There are high environmental standards, and there is a good relationship with local and central authorities in countries. There are a number of such ethical standards as it is a matter of course that Norfund maintains, but it should be a matter of course also for both Norwegian private and state capital. I do not know if there were any specific projects where there might be doubts about this. Let me just mention Laos, as Alf Inge Samuelsen was inside. I have no assumptions to judge the criticism of what has happened there, but at least we have to follow it up. Taking it up here is another reason to follow up and look at those projects. I also noticed an advertisement in the Evening Post a week ago when indigenous representatives in southern Chile made critical remarks about SN Power’s hydroelectric investment project in southern Chile. SN Power’s response is that they will take this criticism seriously and address it on the basis of a possible thorough consultation with the population and authorities of Chile. These are projects we will follow up, but of course with the positive basic attitude that we believe much more hydropower investment is needed in the poor part of the world. For my part in Norway, I have only gone on demonstration trains against hydropower, never for, but there are many parts of the world where I would be willing to go in demonstration for hydropower, because the alternatives are so much worse environmental, social and economic. Hydropower, of course, is sometimes also controversial, and this doesn't mean that all the hydropower is to be expanded, but much more is needed. Finally, let me say to the representative Per Kristian Foss that I am familiar with the fact that there has not been an expansion of hydroelectric power in Africa for the past 15-20 years. I think there's a lot of reasons for that. There are poorly functioning markets, as we are told here, and there are poorly functioning power transmission systems, so that you have a very local market for what you have to expand. It's failing states, but it's also the World Bank's policy – to think that private people could solve this by themselves. And there we are at my final point: I am in principle full of private, profitable investments in hydropower, but in many places building a hydropower plant is such a big promise that only if you can put together a package of private investors, public assistance, the governments of each country, perhaps also the World Bank and international financial institutions, and at the top of the green development mechanism can you actually get something as difficult as large hydropower expansions in countries like Uganda and Mozambique.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e880	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e896	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e903	Over the years, many cases have been dealt with in this room concerning Norwegian svalbard policy. The purpose of the Riksrevision study on current treatment was to assess whether the management of Svalbard complies with Storting’s decisions and assumptions. It has been looked at whether the objectives of societal development and the environment have been achieved and how the ministries discharge their governance and coordination responsibilities. The study is based on analysis of the decision-making process and a number of public documents that guide the exercise of the squalid policy, as well as the collection of a comprehensive material to elucidate the issues. The study is detailed in Document No. 3:8 for 2006-2007, which is a concise but concentrated report on the most relevant issues related to the Norwegian management of Svalbard. The Audit and Constitutional Committee has thoroughly reviewed the study and the comments of the departments concerned as set out in the document. In addition, the Committee has carried out a four-day inspection on the island group and has met with the Employment Manager, Longyearbyen Local Government and representatives of the most central activities on the island group. In addition to Longyearbyen, this time the Committee also visited New Ålesund and the Russian settlement in Barentsburg. Against this background, the Committee has promoted a unanimous approach recommending the Government to review the squalid policy as soon as possible and that the Stortinget be presented with a big message of Svalbard during this majorisation period. As far as we are concerned, this is also in line with the intentions expressed by the Ministry of Justice and the Police themselves. As the Riksrevision study also shows, the management of the archipelago faces a number of challenges. The main challenges are related to the issue of coal production as the main activity base in the future, the conservation of wild fauna and, in this context, also the management of the increased tourist flow to the area and the increase in research activities. And, not least, there are significant challenges related to the development of the community, especially in Longyearbyen. Questions have been raised about the settlement in Longyearbyen should evolve towards a life-cycle society. This includes, inter alia: updated due to the significant population increase that has occurred in recent years and that an increasing proportion of the population is not permanently linked to a continental community. At the same time, this affects a number of aspects, not least the issue of the law applicable to Svalbard. However, as regards the extent to which Norwegian legislation applies, it seems clear that although many of the challenges, perhaps most of them, are related to the settlement in Longyearbyen, it is assumed that the Svalbard legislation in force at all times must apply to the island group as a whole. The Committee does not take any other position than to point out that the Stortinge has so far taken the view that Longyearbyen is not to be developed into a life-cycle society. The Committee concerned the issue of future life-cycle societies also in the meeting with the Longyearbyen local government, which, as far as we could record, had no other opinion on this issue. However, it seems clear that the issue of law is one of the most — or perhaps the most — pressing issues that it is important to consider in the near future. It goes without saying that it is demanding to manage a local community with increasing diversity in terms of population composition, based on a different legal regime from that of the rest of the country. This community is also part of the Kingdom of Norway. It is therefore assumed that the notified review of squalid policy will focus on the legislative issue as one of the most pressing challenges facing society there. With regard to other important challenges faced by svalbard management, the Committee has been satisfied to point them out in the format of the vote. Many of them seem to be up there today, and we're aware that the respective departments are constantly working with them. In this context, it is not least important to stress the cross-sectoral and coordinating role of the Ministry of Justice. Finally, Svalbard is a beautiful land area, with a powerful but vulnerable nature. The people who live up there for shorter or longer periods of life are very competent and motivated to be there. But we need to make sure that conditions are best suited to them. Norway has taken on a great deal of responsibility in managing this area. We must also show the world that we are conscious of this responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e929	I think the rapporteur had a good account of what the Committee thinks about Svalbard and the challenges that exist. Svalbard has a strong attraction for people from all over the world. The vast wilderness attracts with great natural experiences and many cultural memories. A visit to Svalbard is a visit to one of Earth's last wilderness areas. With a climate of change and with pollutants transported to these clean areas from remote areas, pressure has been exerted on the natural environment of the archipelago. The Svalbard Treaty obliges Norway to protect the nature of Svalbard. The Norwegian Polar Institute is a very important tool for achieving such an objective and for gaining further knowledge of the natural environment on the island group. Since Norway took over sovereignty in 1925, a stable Norwegian presence on Svalbard and the objective of maintaining calm and stability on the island group have been important elements of Norwegian svalbard policy. This objective has been given new political substance by the Government’s designation of the northern regions as its strategic focus. Maintaining Norwegian residence is part of the Norwegian sovereignty policy. Like other industries, tourism is an important tool in this policy. It is in the nature of tourism to move away from home, and we know that the transport industry, for example. air traffic is one of the major sources of pollution. The tourists who come to Svalbard include: major consumers of transport services and therefore contribute to wear and pollution. Tourists must not, in the future, present a marginal burden on the environment to ensure that residents of Svalbard are subject to a stricter administrative regime. The tourism industry itself must take responsibility for not having such consequences. The concern of the working party that ship traffic is increasing in areas where the seabed is very poorly measured must be taken seriously. The tourist industry is tempted to enter previously naturally protected areas of solid ice and drift ice. An example is Rijpfjorden, where today ships go all the way into the bottom of the fjord, a fjord that is very poorly measured. It's just to remember that the cruise ship "Explorer", which recently sank in Antarctica, as late as the last summer was in Svalbard. The extent of ship traffic on the east side must therefore be carefully assessed. The National Audit Office points out that representatives of the Longyearbyen local government state that local politicians are to a small extent included on the advice of the Ministries – there is only an ordinary hearing body. I support Longyearbyen local government in their desire for closer contact with, among others. The Polar Committee. Real involvement would dampen or eliminate the perception of the ‘southern bureaucrats’ as breaking down laws and regulations across the ears of residents. Today, Longyearbyen appears to be a living community. This development has every reason for citizens and local politicians to be proud of. I look forward to the government presenting a new big message about Svalbard.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e946	It is a unanimous committee that today presents the position in this matter. I strongly agree with what the rapporteur said. However, I would like to say a few things about what the Progress Party emphasises in relation to the National Audit Office's report on the management of Svalbard. Svalbard has been part of the Kingdom for 82 years now. Norway's supremacy over the island group is widespread in most parts of the world, and among the signature states of the Svalbard Treaty there is only occasional opposition to the Norwegian government and the Norwegian administration of the island group. Nevertheless, it is important that the Stortinget and the central government do not forget the specialty of Svalbard in international law. It must be an objective to have a large Norwegian settlement on the island in the future. In this context, I would like to point out that, according to the report of the National Audit Office, both research and tourism are growing industries on the island group, and these industries must be given the growth conditions that will allow them to make a significant contribution in the long term to maintaining Norwegian settlement, Norwegian industry and Norwegian-driven public activities on the island group. The National Audit Office’s report also shows that ‘there is no overall overview of all research activities at Svalbard’. I welcome the fact that the Ministry of Knowledge provides such an overview, as it says in the setting. The National Audit also points out that growth in both cruise tourism and mainland tourism is creating some challenges. However, the workforce emphasises that the dialogue with tourism operators is good and that tourism is mainly carried out within a sound framework. This statement by the Employment Manager, I think, should be taken into account when facilitating further growth in tourism in the region. As the representative Skulstad was in, there is a situation that increases the environmental risk of cruise tourism around Svalbard, and that is the poor maritime mapping of the area. This poor mapping increases the likelihood of groundings, and it will also make any rescue and oil protection operation in the worst-charted areas more difficult. On that occasion, I would like to stress the importance of the Government's commitment to continue monitoring the marine environment around Svalbard in 2008, as the Ministry of the Environment has stated in its budget proposal for next year. However, there is reason to point out that the Riksrevision report shows that coal is the most important means of maintaining a robust settlement and a stable family society on Svalbard. At the same time, the report shows that only coal remains in existing mines for approx. ten years of operation. New mines are thus the only possibility for further coal operations beyond ten years, and thus new mines should be set up relatively quickly on Svalbard, so that the coal industry can continue to be a basis for Norwegian settlement and sovereignty over the island group. I hope that's one of the things the government is spending time on in a new swallow-bard policy. I would also like to emphasise that the good and clean coal from Svalbard used for the production of energy in coal-fired power stations produces much lower emissions than that produced in power stations based on lignite from Eastern Europe. High energy prices will also make it more profitable in the future to extract coal from any new mines on Svalbard. The National Audit Office also points out that there is no overall overview of the laws, regulations and rules applicable to the archipelago. This is clearly a problem, and it is therefore good that the Ministry of Justice is expressing that this is a problem that has been addressed. Such a review meets the Progress Party. We also attend an overall review of Norwegian swallowing policy. However, the support for these processes must not be seen as supporting the application of several laws and regulations to the archipelago, even in Longyearbyen. Sometimes it may be necessary, but not as a general rule. The Progress Party assumes that Svalbard has a special position in the Norwegian administration and that the rule should be that the smallest possible amount of State law and regulations should apply to the archipelago. This will also have implications for the size of the Administration of the Employed. The National Audit Office’s report also points out that ‘the objective of a non-life-cycle society’ is under pressure, including: due to population growth and changing demographic composition. An assessment of this issue must, of course, be included in a comprehensive review of Norwegian swallowing policy. However, I believe initially that there is reason to stress the speciality of Svalbard, and that today's management model on Svalbard does not facilitate the establishment of a life-cycle society. Further integration of Svalbard into Norwegian legislation could also result in increased resistance to Norwegian supremacy and management of fishing resources in the Svalbard zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e965	The reason why I wanted to speak on this matter was the emphasis that the rapporteur gave the objectives of social and environmental development that Norway has set itself on Svalbard. It's very important to have that with. We also note that there is a great deal of interest in increasing business activity, especially from the Russian side, and when the Northern regions have been clearly set on the map, as their strategic choices, there is reason to be aware of what fortunately several of the speakers have been involved, this with the lack of maritime mapping. We're almost in the situation that the area around Svalbard is largely blank. It's a blank paper. Large parts of the coastal area are entirely without, or partly without, modern digital charts. Illustrative of that situation is the fact that the Swedish Maritime Administration's own boat, which was up there last year on a quick visit, went underground in an area that was not mapped. We're facing a vulnerable arctic nature that we have an extra burden on ourselves to take care of. What's more important than a real map that gives us an overview of the area we're going to take care of? Therefore, I hope that on later occasions we can come back to this and make sure that we get proper digital maps of Svalbard. Let's take the rest of the coast of Norway. We have some blank fields there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e977	I take the floor because for some years I have been concerned about Svalbard and also had responsibility in connection with Svalbard. The reason why I take the floor is that I also want to underline what is underlined, but which is very important, both what the Riksrevision says, and what the committee says will be good with a new, broad review during this ageing period. There are several factors that speak for it. I am not going to go into the issues mentioned by the Riksrevision and the Committee, but the general thing about what we can call the northern regions in a broad sense, understanding a Norwegian policy in the northern regions, which is both about the Barents Sea and about the difficult border areas we have with the polar regions, where Svalbard becomes part of such a whole, suggests that such a communication and such broad discussion are important. This doesn't exclude that in all other contexts we'll also get into the north areas, but it's very important. It is also the case, as we have seen in the media, that the situation of the Russian settlements on Svalbard has reached such a critical point that the Russians themselves have to decide what they will do. That is why the Left does not perceive it as alarming that a Russian delegation recently came to Svalbard, which was duly handled by the Minister of Justice, but we perceive that since the mining company cannot pay, the state has to pay, and then the state that is to pay has to find out what it is going to pay for. Yours has been compared to the Russian settlements on Svalbard. These general north-eastern considerations indicate a notification. Then there's another kind of concern I have, which is related to the field of work I now have in Stortinget. That's the development we've had in terms of parts of the research activity at Svalbard. It is that in the New Ålesund we have arranged for an impressive infrastructure, and that is also a good thing. There are very many people from other countries who use this place, and I was there myself in another capacity in my life in the summer of 2005. Then there was a delegation from Beijing. They traveled there to be there for two days and traveled back again. The Chinese put a lot of emphasis on the area. In this context, there are two repeaters I've had in this room since the last election. One is that we have to be able to hold up the Norwegian research effort in Ny-Ålesund – it doesn't seem to be possible – and it must be very important for us because it gives strong signals for research, but also in what we would call North Region policy in a broader sense. And then it has become that for me, the symbol of wanting – or not wanting – something researchable was to upgrade the Zeppelin Observatory on the top of the Zeppelin mountain in New Ålesund. There is no end to how wide a connection is made to this, even when there is Document No. Eight proposals, but when you crawl into budgets of different kinds, it's almost impossible — i.e. you can't find anything to do with this place. This is one of the very few places on the globe where you can measure the planet's health status at this time, which is now about climate challenges that are dramatic and big. It's a unique place. It's a place where we per. Today is not enough to take care of the data we have. It's a place where we could get and measure even more data. It's not big dollars, but it's important dollars. I would also like to stress that New Ålesund has been made important by, among other things. The country’s foreign minister has stood up in Washington and said that American politicians should come to New Zealand – and they have. There's been both Hillary Clinton and John McCain and others. There the British Conservative leader, David Cameron, has been, and there Prime Minister Stoltenberg has taken with Nordic Prime Minister colleagues. So we flag so high in the north areas, as I think we are right about New Ålesund and the research platform there, that it also obliges us. This research platform also invites a wide range of international efforts, so that there will be a place managed by Norway in such a way that the Svalbard Treaty, the very spirit of it, will enable all those who want to take advantage of the Treaty’s opportunities. These comments are from the Left in order to underline the importance of the work that I note that the Ministry of Justice has notified the Committee that they have launched a new broad review of Svalbard and all the challenges on the island group.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e998	The government takes the swallowing policy seriously. That's one of the cornerstones of our Northern Territory bet. I would like to say in connection with the Riksrevision report and also to the reading in the committee that I have rarely felt that so many good reports have come so strategically in relation to the work that the department has undertaken to make a new communication on the swallowing policy. It is not the case that there is a need to change the swallowing policy in particular. In fact, I believe that much of the conclusion in relation to swallowing policy will be that at least the attitude of the large community towards Svalbard is firm. However, we have significant challenges, and both through what the National Audit Office points to, and through the Committee's consideration, I believe that we have a very good starting point for creating a discussion right now – and then having a message again – that reflects what are the important challenges. However, I would like to encourage and say that parallel processes are taking place, in the sense that there are some of the areas pointed out by the Riksrevision, which one must also be able to deal with independently of a big message, and the latter, such as the representative Dørum, among others. the situation in the New Ålesund, which is, to a large extent, a budgetary issue, but all the more important. I would like to point out two factors that make it a matter of time with a message that can form the back cover for the work we have started in the department. One is what several speakers have already said, that Svalbard is an essential part of the Northern Region initiative under way by the Government, and the other is the unique environmental anchoring of Svalbard in many ways – in order to take care of so unique wilderness areas, it requires entirely its own measures and rules and laws, and then we, as the representative of Dørum, have the opportunity to use Svalbard in relation to the other international communities to address the environmental challenges we face. In this way, New Ålesund is the most important place in the world. I guess that's the place where we can first of all be able to harvest perfectly clear, measurable data that can compete with most people in the environmental field in relation to, among other things. emissions, making the management of the environment at Svalbard important as such in order to take care of the research that is taking place there. However, it is also a major challenge for us to be able to contribute to precisely what is also pointed out by the Riksrevision that more cooperation, coordination and registration of the research activity that is taking place can be achieved. In fact, I believe that what is happening in the New Ålesund, in many ways, is a very good example of how to coordinate and cooperate at international level in research. The second thing we obviously want to be central to a big message is the question of what kind of housing we're going to have on Svalbard. I took note of the Committee's views on this. There are parallel processes going on here. In the budget to be dealt with now, we are almost going to reverse the increase in taxes on Svalbard. The Svalbard tax conversion is essential for the kind of society we're going to have up there and, in the government's view, is just to ensure a sustainable society that allows families to live there. But new questions arise, including: on the situation of commuting, as the government has told us to look at, for example: against the rules applicable to taxes. We have considerable contact with the local government in Longyearbyen. Perhaps more than anyone else, this local government has access directly into a department, i.e. Ministry of Justice. In this way we have had extensive contact, among other things. about tax issues, and I've been to Svalbard 7-8 times over the time I've been a State Council. So I think the contact is good. I also point to the environmental challenges that it is working on. I do not have time to go into it, but I also see the issue of the coordination of the sage-bard policy as important in the communication that is now coming, among other things. through a review of the instructions of the Polar Committee in operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1013	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1029	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies from the members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1040	Too often it is that those who deserve attention in the field of justice policy do not receive it. We are discussing how we should react to crime and not how we should prevent and prevent it. We are discussing measures in relation to the perpetrators and have too little focus on the victims of crime. Today, the country’s crisis centers will once again accept women and children who are fleeing from violent husbands or a father who beats. Today, new victims will be the statistics that show that about 9 pst. by Norwegian women between the ages of 20 and 54, they are subjected to serious violence in society. Through an article series, VG has focused on the many issues of violence against women who have had the worst outcome – killing. I give the VG absolutely right; this is crime in its most serious, serious form – crime to be limited and prevented. It is the victim who has to be cared for in a completely different way from today. I am pleased that we have a political majority who take this crime seriously, and the victims of it. As a result of this state budget, several victims of violent crime are to be compensated for, inter alia: a child who is a witness to violence. Victims of serious crime of violence shall enjoy far stronger rights during the trial than today. Since we took over, the Storting has adopted the grooming paragraph. For spring, the reverse alarm of violence is being tried out. In 2008, we will extend the positions of family violence coordinators in the police, and there will be their own family violence and assault teams in the main police districts. We establish three new children's houses and thus establish this offer as a nationwide offer. In the light of this reinforced effort against violence in close relations, I must say that Siv Jensen and Jan Arild Ellingsen's chronicle in the VG on Sunday 25 November is taken. The measure they want in place is that VG for all of these women's raps must represent the perpetrators, not the victims. Not one real measure, not one, is proposed by the Progress Party to reduce and limit violence. These are purely symbolic policies that do not help any of those who are today being terrorized by violent partners. The same lack of constructiveity seems to me to characterise the opposition's policy in relation to the Justice budget. Instead of taking responsibility for having ended up in a situation where both districts and cities are struggling to occupy police posts because of the lack of enough trained police, the Right is trying to make this a matter of resource shortage. The solution of the spring party is repair after cutting off important appropriations for prevention. This is an expensive prescription — both socio-economically and not least in terms of human costs. The budget for justice is a continuation of the change in course we started in this field when we took over the autumn of 2005. The appropriations will be increased to next year by approximately DKK 1.9 billion. The biggest promise is for the criminal services, which are strengthened by 630 million. kr. In our first three years in government, we will have opened about 400 new settlements. The results are already displayed. The reconciliation queues are more than halved. Let me stress, contrary to the claims of the Party of Advancement, that no forward-looking release rules have been changed since the last government, and the proportion has not been released before time. We are also increasing the police budget again. With this draft budget, we have allocated over half a billion more to the police since we took over, and we have, among other things. Fixed the cut that was waiting for us from the Bondevik administration when we took over the government offices. But the biggest challenge facing us when we took over was the lack of trained police. In 2003, only 240 students were admitted to the Police College. In 2007, the red-green majority increased their recording to record 432 students, an increase of almost 200. Had the previous government had our pace of training police officers, we could only have hired nearly 200 more police officers around the police districts last year. But the most important thing we do on the police side of this budget is the DNA reform. Winning crime is the crime most people face in everyday life. The clearance rate is very low in some police districts, too low in relation to Stortingen's target, and many experience that reported cases end up with contingencies, which in turn weakens the public's confidence in the police. In order to solve more issues, far more convictions are to be recorded in the DNA register than today. We are also implementing the Soria Moria promise to centralize this reform. The percentage of data in the case of outbreaks in the United Kingdom increased from 14 p.p. to 45 pst. when the DNA registry was used. In the case of theft from cars, the percentage of information from the poor increased by 8 pst. to 63 pst. using DNA. For the police, DNA reform is probably one of the most important reforms they undergo in years, because it will make research more effective. For the audience it will mean that far more reviews end with clarification and judgment. It's a high priority task for us to give the police resources and methods to solve their tasks. But we have to admit that we are not able to repair ourselves out of all the problems. If we are to limit and prevent the violence affecting children and women, we must focus on prevention, as opposed to the Progress Party, which is poor on countermeasures. It is then very important to limit alcohol and alcohol abuse. When the Advance Party proposes to reduce the alcohol charge by 841 million. kr, will have a significant impact on the extent of violence. When Finland reduced its alcohol taxes, the crime of violence increased by 29 p.m. It will in turn increase the need for police, for detention centres, for health services and will cost far more than the Progress Party itself has at its disposal. For other types of crime, too, the Cutbacks of the Progress Party will have dramatic consequences. Cut the customs tariff of over 200 million. This means that the fight against cross-border crime is severely affected. In particular, there will be consequences for the fight against organised crime and drug crime. When the Advance Party cuts the tax rate by 400 million. kr, it will affect work against financial crime. Do the representatives of the Progress Party believe that the credit supervision would be better or worse able to combat unprofessional financial actors with the proposed reduction of supervision? We have national challenges in relation to the justice sector. But sometimes there is a need to raise your eyes. I visited the UN earlier this fall and was once again documented that we have a very competent and sought after police in Norway. It is increasing, and not least the right focus on building up the civil security sector in the context of peacekeeping operations and the reconstruction of nations. Norwegian police have just traveled to Darfur, they are central in Afghanistan, in the Balkans and in many other countries. The high level of competence of these police officers and women in relation to, among other things, corruption, human rights and the safeguarding of the civilian population are essential in building democracies. In particular, priority is given to building skills on women’s and children’s rights, violence and abuse. Women and children worldwide are victims of violence and abuse. We see an increasing use of rape as a weapon. Then I'm glad we have Norwegian policemen out there, for example. in Liberia, which has a high level of competence in these fields, and is central to implementing this focus among local police forces. Violence and assault are not just a national issue. We have a responsibility to help fight this problem internationally. The Bondevik II government was only able to introduce bystander on the Sun during its four years in government. When we took over in 2005, the population had lived in Northern Norway, in Trøndelag and in the North West much worse rescue preparedness than people living in the South. To next year, the red-green majority will introduce bystanders at all continental rescue bases, and we will establish a new one in Florø, to be opened by 1 January 2009. Major Paul Paulsen, Head of the 330-square-dron in Bodø, says to NTB that life is saved as a result of the fact that bystander has given a much faster response time. This is at the heart of our justice policy – a policy that creates security and security. We believe that women and children have the right to a safe life. That is why we are giving priority to the fight against violence. We believe that people who travel to land and to water are entitled to the fastest possible rescue response, regardless of which part of the country you are in. Then we don't spend four years in government just implementing one base, then we act. We are not waiting until the problem has arisen, as in the case of a lack of trained policemen, which the previous government was unable to predict. No, we do it through clear and clear budget priorities, and through an active, targeted and comprehensive justice policy. It creates greater security, it provides more security, and it is good welfare policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1084	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1087	It was a pleasure to hear the chairman of the Judicial Committee give homage to his own policy, and of course it says respect. At the same time, it is probably a fact that as a politician you are only halfway a professional if you are. In Nordlys on 7 November this year, the chief of police in Troms takes a strong settlement with the representative Bjørnflaten and the representative Saxi in relation to a description they have of reality, from which the chief of police takes a great deal of distance. To make this easy, I would like to hear from the representative of the Bjørnfacen whether it is such that she invokes greater police professional competence than the police chief, because in that case the two might have to consider changing the place of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1094	I think the police officer in Trom's police district and I don't disagree so much when it comes to the problem. We are facing challenges on the manning side of the districts. The biggest defect I have pointed out in my post is that there are not enough policemen. I would like to employ more policemen in the districts, but the problem is that we have a huge shortage of policemen. This government has taken hold of it, so we're training far, far more than what was trained under the previous government. We're also looking at senior policy to make more people work longer. We look at measures agreed by the entire committee, for example: setting limits to response time and such things, and which are now investigated by the Government. So I think the chief of police and I don't disagree very much. It should also be said that the police chief said – as we presented the budget last year, which has formed the basis for the work that has been done – that with this money we can get a lot of good police work. We have now increased the police budget. And I'm sure Trom's police district will also see it like this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1101	The chairperson of the committee said in Nordlys: ‘We need to find a solution where the survivors do not look as bad as in this case.’ A deceased mother’s six surviving children must divide the maximum amount of 20 G by six, because the legislation is based on the amount per person. case and not on individual assessment. The committee leader must then have known that the government was not going to propose changes, and that the bill came after all other parties had submitted their budgets. Political leadership in the Department says you have ‘for a spin-off basis to propose amendments, at present’. The chairperson of the committee answers four days afterwards to the question of what is the result of two years of legal proceedings without proposals for amendments, and she has known about the issue for a long time: ‘Long and long. Changes to the laws are not implemented overnight.’ Why was the bill submitted long after the budget? Why did the committee leader express herself the way she did, when she must have known that there wasn't going to be any change proposed? How many things are needed for the basis not to be too spiny? And what definition of the term "long" does the committee leader use?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1120	I have to say that I am very pleased with the message that the Government has made, and I am very pleased with what is in the budget. So here you've added an increase of almost 14 million. DKK for payments to victims of violence. It is an important signal that we want to prioritise the victims of crime much more strongly than today. Among other things, we are expanding. the group, so that children who have witnessed violence will be the subject of new compensation for the victims of violence. So it's like there's been individual things that point to some bias in the system. But I have to say, and I have also said that to Nordlys and the magazine Tromsø, that I am strongly responding to the game that I experience that the Advance Party and the Right are doing in this matter, trying to lead the left behind the light. That's because the two parties haven't added a single penny to their alternative state budgets. The progress part shall have a honeycomb in order to have added 2 million. kr to an agent for victims of violence. The right has not inserted anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1127	First of all, I would like to commend the chairman of the committee for the strong emphasis on the fight against violence, not least against women and children, on which we are basically inter-politically united. But then on top of that, let's say, the sins of fathers -- in any case, in the opinion of this government, it's the admission to the Police College under the previous government that's the big problem with most of it. Then it must be allowed to correct something on that history description. When the Bondevik II government took over after the Stoltenberg government, the recording was probably around 240, and after the last draft budget by the previous government, the number was 432. So if this government is able to increase at the same rate, we can probably see the light on it. But my question concerns the police operating budgets. For the current year, an additional allocation was necessary in order to reach a level that could be accepted in the revised national budget. To what extent does the Chairman of the Committee believe that this will also be necessary for 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1134	In the course of the two years – three years, with this budget – we have increased the police budget by over half a billion dollars. In particular, there have been large increases in the operating budget, and we have also earmarked funds to make use of, among other things. has given priority to the fight against violence in close relations, on which the representative was involved. I am very pleased and proud of what we have been able to do in terms of the police budget. Not least, the DNA stake, which I just pointed out, is important to combat the crime that affects people most. Then we've also had a new aging. There were 20 new, fresh millions of dollars coming to the police. This will lead to addressing the senior policy and shortcomings that we have seen in relation to it, and this will lead to shorter response times. So I'm very proud of the police budget we've put forward. So it's like the department's about to make an investigation to look at future needs. When this investigation comes, it will be a good tool to look at the future needs of the police so that we don't end up in the situation we've had, with the lack of trained police officers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1145	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1149	Then we are resuming this year's fiercest debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. Let me start with the simplest first: to give the government credit for some things. When you're about to give rice, at the same time, you have to give praise. There should be some sort of balance in the accounts. I will give the Government a tribute for three matters – first of all, for the reduction of the passport fee. I think it's very good and very reasonable that you put more on a line where you use the principle of self-sufficiency. It's a policy that we've fully supported, and for which I give the government credit. The second is the strengthening of voluntary teams and organisations, not least in the rescue work. These represent an invaluable contribution that cannot be measured in crowns and ears. When the accident is over, we need them. So what the government is doing here, it's also going to have a reward for. I also want to give the Government a boost for more targeted actions – finally – to get the new rescue helicopters in place. As the current Council of State and the undersigned are well-known, we discussed this on 16 May 2002. Things take time in the government apparatus – but obviously also here in Stortinget. So over to what I might not be fully so impressed with. I've heard the committee leader tell you how great the next year will be. I hope that VG, Evening Post and Dagbladet are aware that they will then have to reduce the editions and the number of pages by approx. 30 pst. – too much of what is written there is very related to crime, so when it's going to be gone next year, I assume that the papers will go down, and it'll be less interesting to be a criminal journalist. It is not certain that the world will be like this, but after hearing the committee leader describe it that way, I expect the criminals to look dark in the future – and that all of us can see light on it. If that happens, it remains to be seen. For my part, 2007 – so far – has been an interesting year. When the Council of State took over in 2005, I had clear expectations that he would deliver. It is possible that the government thinks he has done so, but at the same time I think it must be allowed to say that 2007 has been a challenging year for Norwegian police. There have been many single events with negative signs, which I am sure the Council of State, the Ministry of Justice, the Government and – not least – the Storting should have seen nothing happen. We have up to several examples from Finnmark, where the police, due to lack of staff and resources, could not move out until long after an episode had somehow been resolved. The worst of them was well then a solitary steep down. When the police finally moved out, they brought the fire service and came only to turn it off. That, some of us would say, is legally late to assist – I thought it was one of the most important things you do. If you look at Section 1 of the Police Act, you see that item 1 says something about the police you actually need, and that item 2 says something about the police, among other things. shall prevent. Then it might be an advantage to move out and prevent houses from starting on and burning down. The same applies to traffic accidents, where the police arrive at a time when the injured have been removed by the ambulance, the wrecks have been removed by a rescue car, and the fire service has washed the scene. How the Norwegian police should then be able to write a report on the crime scene, I am not sure, but it is possible that the government here has some secret, hidden cards that the opposition is not aware of. In that case, we get to hope that we become more wise, we too – eventually. That this is a value debate is clear. The same applies to the discussion on housing and housing conditions. The Chairman of the Committee says that the Progress Party claims that more people are released. The correct thing is that there has been no desire from this government to reduce the use of advanced probation. Even though the then opposition politician Knut Storberget accused the then Minister of Justice that this had completely taken advantage of – too many of them had taken advantage of this – the government has thus opted for, at least, the same level. We have a discussion about the relationship between open spaces, closed spaces, the use of community sanctions and the use of alternative forms of punishment. I think we agree quite a lot, but what concerns us is that those who are convicted of serious crimes come out too soon, under a milder form of reconciliation. It is worrying about those who are already in a more open regime out there, but also about how those like these people are exposed to crime, i.e. the victims, feel that they are getting zones under less restrictive conditions. I think it does something to those who are victims of crime, and I think it's worrying. The same applies to the courts, which still have queue problems and which still have major structural problems, cf. e.g. Gulating in Bergen. What strikes me when the government councils and parties stand here and say that they have made a real effort – it is SEK 1.9 billion, all due respect for it – is that if we take away the rise in wages and prices and all that there is in a way clear leadership for, what do we have left of free money and strength? That's what's being asked. That's what police Norway is asking. That's what's the problem when the police officer in Oslo says he has to keep 100 jobs awake, because he needs a freeboard to do his job. And then we wonder why people don't get help when they need it? I guess that's no worse than that: if you add two and two together, you usually get four. It should be possible to do so in this sector as well. I think we need a broad value debate, where we define to a much greater extent what we want the justice sector to look like. What do we want with response time? What expectations should people have? And which of the expectations of the audience do we want to meet in terms of police assistance? When one waits for a case to be brought to justice, it is a rather tough period, I think – both for the victims and for the perpetrator. Of course, we can discuss temptations and that we have invested so much and so much, but as long as we have these problems, we also have some valuable challenges – in my opinion. The same is true when we introduce new regimes that involve changes in settlement conditions. The government will now introduce a system of home soning. Some of us are against it. We believe that the premise lies too much with the perpetrator – you want to tread on the victims of crime. But of course, it's a value choice that the government makes, and that it thinks makes sense. The same applies to the balance point between what government employees are required to do and what others can do. For our part, it will at least be important to have looked at both. And then finally, the totality of what we're doing is going to give us results. If we get too weird about leaning to one side or the other, I think it'll hit solutions. Then we lose focus on the most important thing, which is the best solution in total. I want to challenge the Council of State and the Government to take a broader debate. I know that in the past, the Council of State itself has been involved in the same thoughts. If you can find out where your needs are, you may need to set standards, because you will, among other things, want to do so. also avoid having the unforeseeableness of the budget. And for Police Norway, among other things, I think next year will be a tough year. I realized that the Police Joint Association came out with a press release that was immediately quite commendable. I realized that number. 2 was perhaps more moderate than the first – to put it mildly. But it's a consequence of a wild policy. This government has a majority in Stortinget. It can do whatever it wants. That means it has all the possibilities, but at the same time it has all the rights. And so it has to take responsibility for what's happening – on the plus side and on the minus side. Then I hear the committee leader say it's important to bet, it's important to take more. I record that the goal of the Government is to approx. 38 pst. the cases shall be settled. That means that a clear majority can still count on getting away. It may also be a choice of value. It's possible that it's also completely conscious. It is possible that acceptable policies are pursued by the majority government. But it has to look a little weird. All in all, I think next year is going to be a tough year. The Joint Police Association has already suggested a shortage of over 100 million. kr to maintain the level of the day. We already see the signals from Oslo: they see that with what's going to happen, it's going to be difficult. I see that the Council of State has more or less said that Oslo is working too badly, and that things have to be done here. Then I'm a little surprised that the Council of State doesn't go any further. Because if it's the case that the police officer in Oslo doesn't have confidence, the council has the opportunity to do something about it, I guess. And if that's the way he works wrong, I'll definitely challenge the Council of State to give guidance to the chief of police – if that's what's needed. Because it's clear that there's a difference between what you do in Oslo and what the Minister of Justice thinks makes sense. Finally, to the various proposals in the vote. I would like to address the proposals put forward by the Progress Party and on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. With regard to proposals Nos. 1 and 7, I will be allowed to state that they will be effective from 1 January 2009 – as far as I have understood. In the case of proposal No: 9, which is presented by the Right, we are going to vote against it. We believe that we have an alternative proposal that is actually better. And in the case of proposal No. 10, from the Left, we're going to support it, as we've always done, even though it was actually promoted by the same person in another role in its time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1195	The representative Jan Arild Ellingsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1200	Today, the trial of the so-called taxi fraud starts, and I have found a play – well called it – from the representative Ellingen on the website of the Advance Party that he was dissatisfied with the work of exposing the taxi jacket and will consider taking away those who are being taxed, the right to drive a taxi. I guess that's good. But then the problem is that the Progress Party in its alternative budget will cut the budget by 400 million. kr. For the tax base, this will result in a sharp reduction in the fight against and expose economic crime, as in the case of taxi industry. My question to the representative Ellingsen is therefore: How in the world will the representative fight such economic crime in the future, when he cuts motor cases in the department that exposes the fraud?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1209	I thank you, of course, for the question. I don't think it'll be a problem at all. I am quite sure that the tax rate is able to give priority to important issues in the face of less important issues, just as the police have to do in the case of the inadequate budgets represented by the representative of the Bjørnface in this Chamber. In this way I have the best conscience in the world. I'm sure they'll be able to do that. One of the reasons why we actually strengthen the police budget as much as we do is to have an opportunity to address the crime being committed, and not allow a clear majority of criminals to escape, as the government has ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1218	I registered that the representative Ellingsen believes that the tax rate can and should be a priority. But the same representative was very critical that the police should give priority to the budgets that the majority will adopt. So I have a question. The other day, the representative Ellingsen had an interpellation in the United Kingdom, calling for action against cross-border international crime. Let's have a value debate about that. We believe that it is important to provide help to people who have problems with, for example: HIV and AIDS, where entire communities or generations are eradicated, and young children are left without caregivers or other opportunities to move on in life. There's a value debate, and there's a $9 billion cutout in the Progress Party. Now leave the debate on value. Let's take the material questions about our own safety. How will the Progress Party fight international crime, when children are set to commit crime because the foreign budget is cut by 9 billion dollars?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1227	Just as in my previous answer, I would say, of course, it will be a priority within the various levels. Strengthening our police budget every time includes: to enable people to contribute through the Strength well. And – with respect to reporting – I have to say that I think the representative Chaudhry, who is responsible for a policy where people who die in a car accident stay lying outside the open stage for more than two hours, should go a little quiet in the doors. It is therefore the operational policy of this government. Our proposals are being downgraded. The representative of Chaudhrys is hereby appointed. The impact of the representative's proposals is inter alia: that people stay on the open stage for hours after dying. But of course, it's also a value debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1234	I have noticed that the representative Ellingsen has stated that what comes to light when people vote in Holmgang on TV is the opinion of most people. Now, in my view, it is usually a little easy to get the reconciliation result there. So if the question had been about a desired more focus on home thought, I think the result would have been 'yes' in such a reconciliation. However, studies show that most people want more — and actually have more faith — rehabilitation. Has the representative of Ellingsen noticed, and does he agree that today's government has a long right pace and has made greater efforts in terms of rehabilitation and criminal care than the previous government? And: If the Progress Party's drug policy is implemented, this will have major consequences. The increase in the funds to the police proposed by the Progress Party will probably be speedy. Does the representative Ellingen realise the consequences of a drug policy in which opening hours are dramatically expanded and will no longer take place through the wine monopoly? This will facilitate access – which in turn will lead to more abuse and increased crime. Is the representative Ellingen willing to pay that price?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1241	Of course he's willing to do that. Every year when we make our alternative budget, we do it with a plan that this is in the best interests of the country – just as all other parties do. But part of what the representative is asking about is that we support: what concerns the government's return guarantee, the Progress Party has supported because we agree that if we have a weak point, it is the time when one is going to leave prison and return to ordinary society. That is probably where we quite agree. The fact that we have a completely different drug policy, primarily alcohol tax, is clear. At the same time, I hope that the representative Heggø will take responsibility for helping those who live well – very well – from smuggling. When there is a policy that keeps prices up, at the same time, an Eldorado is created for those who live by heavy organized crime. But that's probably also one of those goals the government is very pleased with, I guess.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1250	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1253	History now seems to be a main task for the red-green ones. The problem is that history doesn't exactly hit the plank, because in central areas it's obviously so that the written history and reality are on pretty clear collision courses. The admission to the Police College was stepped up by 125 students in the previous period, and has increased so far by 72 places under today's government. It belongs to the story that during the period 2001–2005 the Workers' Party did not have proposals for greater admissions than the Bondevik II government proposed, but this fact they fully support in their history. Another chapter in history deals with the appropriations made available to the police. I wonder that it may be such a great achievement to grant a little over 500 million more to the police in a situation where the state budget has been spending more than 130 billion kroner since the government change. Is it really a bet to boast, when the reality is that police operating budgets are so scarce that the police officers have to leave hundreds of jobs unoccupied in the police in Norway? Today's economic snout forces a police organization that provides longer call-out time and poorer public service. Close-up police are becoming more and more distant, and frustration is building up in the police station. The atmosphere outside is not exactly on the roof. Neither did it at the national meeting of the Joint Police Association. There's every reason for scepticism when the red-greens take out the brittle album. Neither police nor local politicians recognize themselves in the picture of the budgetary situation in the police. In a letter dated 2 November from the Municipality of Øksne to the Council of State, the rapporteur points out that the police department in the district is not functioning well enough. The time for printing is unacceptably long, and it creates uncertainty in the population. The rapporteur believes that progress is contrary to the Storting's objective. The council of Øksnes therefore asks the Stortinget to provide a thorough review of the situation of the police in the districts, with a view to strengthening staffing and reducing response time. After a meeting with police officers from all over North Norway, we know that, if possible, the situation is even more under pressure in Finnmark. The problems in Oslo can be read about every day in the media. The time has come for action both in the short and long term. Where government parties fail and speak, the Right has put more into action, into an active senior policy and into civil positions. In the long term, the crew project is important. In addition, the Right is now promoting proposals for a police study to provide Stortinget with the knowledge base we need in order to determine how large the Norwegian police force must be in the future to deal with the police's tasks. The gap between tasks and resources just gets bigger, and this is a development we have to deal with. A police study based on the model of the Defence Study, which analyses the threat picture and the development of crime, must be in addition to the ongoing manning project with the time horizon 2015. The police study needs to go deeper both nationally and internationally, focusing on how to equip the police for the next decades in order to effectively address the fight against increasingly serious and internationally organised crime. With this reason, I hope that the Council of State can today agree on the need for such a study and that an overall increase can now vote in favour of the proposal. The right has notified the police of an escalation plan. Here I have to clear up a manifest misunderstanding: the new police study on the policing plan for the police is not about filling up today's 300-500 vacancies, but is about how many more police officers in addition to what we need to have in order to preserve the police force and at the same time match different peace-time threats to civil society. In the right, it is important to pay greater attention to victims and survivors, and has proposed the establishment of support centres for insults in all police districts, following the model of the trial in Trondheim. The Law on the Compensation of Victims under consideration in the Committee is relevant to the budget because the proposed improvements in compensation schemes require funding in 2008. The legislative proposal contains many important changes. At one point, however, the Government has failed to make any changes: Section 11 of the Act, such as: Puts a roof on the replacement. This has proved to be very unfortunate and unfair in some cases because one victim can pay the same as six siblings in another case have to share. In the light of this, the Right today promotes a proposal that the Government should review Section 11 and come back to revision in the spring with proposals that take into account situations of several victims/sufferers in the case and assess whether the compensation should be an individual right in the future. I have registered that the committee's head of the Workers' Party admits that the system is unfair. I hope that the red-greens today will take advantage of the opportunity they have to ask the government to look at this paragraph of the law once more. Correctness: considerable efforts have been made to reduce the queue. However, the right wants to step up efforts aimed at the youngest offenders in criminal matters. That is why we have proposed to release funds to provide compensation for children under 18 years of age, so that Norway can escape the unpleasant search for the UN, which has pointed out that we are not complying with the Children’s Convention on this point. Finally, I would like to address the proposals from the Right. I would point out that proposal No. 8 gets activation from 2009. We will support proposal No. Ten from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1279	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has addressed the suggestions she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1283	Education and focusing on it has long tried to have its mark on politics. I would argue that in the justice sector, the three serious omissions in education are involved. The first is the recording at KRUS. Here we have actually increased the ordinary classes and the extra classes, but it clearly came as lightning from the clear sky for the Bondevik II government that new prison places also need to increase staffing and more in education. The second is the recording at Police College. In 2003, 240 students were recorded at the Police College, and in 2007 the recording was 432. The third is to put education in prison. My question to the representative of Aspaker is quite simple: does the representative realize that the manning situation would have been a completely different and much better if the government of Bondevik had taken responsibility and eroded more policemen and more prison officers and received instruction into prison, when they were responsible and put at the rudder? Does the representative realize that when the Right screams at more crewing, the party itself has most of the debt?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1292	It is a reality that the previous government made a big message about education in prison. It made clear that this was an area that had to be prioritised, and it is very important to get good rehabilitation. So the admission to the Police College was increased by 125 students under the previous government. So far, today's government has done 72. I totally agree that we have to deal with more in the years that are coming, because we're going to build a bigger police force, but I don't feel like we have anything to be ashamed of. I also draw attention to the fact that in the previous period there was actually no proposal to take up larger coals at the Police College. As far as KRUS is concerned, it is clear that the focus on new prisons etc. must be accompanied by a new investment in more people trained to enter those jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1299	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, from the Right, was punished the other day by the Mayor of Oslo, who represents the Right, for cutting off the subsidy to the Dixi centres and the Centers for Sexually Abuse Men, because, in the opinion of the representative, Dahl, the Right-Ombudsman of Oslo unilaterally called for police, while cutting off the subsidy for repair and prevention. Then is my question to the representative of Aspaker: is she not on the same track, namely that she is unilaterally calling for police, while her colleagues in Kommune-Norway are unable to provide subsidies for repair and prevention, despite the fact that the red-green government has granted approximately 20 billion kroner in free income to the municipalities in the last two to three years?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1306	It's a reality that this government in its nearly two to three years of power has had 130 billion more to go with. This means that the municipalities have received more, but it is also a reality that the growth in the municipal sector and in the free resources was in fact entirely in line with today's government, under the previous government. In this way I do not feel that the criticism that is being addressed here comes to the right address. The right has made safe communities one of its most important issues in the election campaign we have behind us, and we're going to continue to have that focus. This means that we're going to work on different actions, both centrally and locally, to build up under the fact that the police and all the good forces in the communities can help us to work together to prevent better and facilitate the help of groups that, for various reasons, are struggling and having a hard time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1313	It is time that the Right appears to be a progressive party and has some good suggestions. That's why I was very surprised when the Right went against trying out electronic compensation – and this despite the fact that the party has been in the past. First, I was surprised because the experience with electronic compensation from Sweden shows that this is a very good measure that has also greatly reduced the recurrence experience. The right-hand batch traps in Sweden have also chosen to continue this action. I was also surprised because this is actually a pilot project that we're implementing just to look at the experience of electronic reconciliation. My question to the representative of Aspaker is: what is the reason why the Right is now against a proposal that the party has previously been in favour of?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1320	The right has, in its draft budget, limited electronic compensation to become a project for the youngest offenders. We are in principle opposed to making this a grand project for home reconciliation. We see clearly that electronic reconciliation means that those who are the best, those who are the most resourceful and successful inmates, are the ones who would be able to get such an offer. At the same time, it requires large follow-up resources, either from criminal or outpatient care. We're afraid that it's going to be at the expense of the work that has to be done in relation to the release from other shelters, and we have in the situation that you're in now, don't think it was right to start that kind of grand experiment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1325	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1328	In 2005, the Norwegian people elected a new majority in Stortinget. It was a clear signal that the people would have a different kind of policy than what the right side stood for. Since 2005, the SV and the Red-Green Government have delivered since their mandate. the community in front of the tax districts of the richest of the weakest, in front of the protection of individual policy on capital ownership to promote solidarity with the weakest, both at home and abroad; The Soria Moria Declaration has ambitious objectives of an active and comprehensive fight against crime. We need to prevent better, clarify more, react faster and rehabilitate better. The justice policy of the government has a broad welfare policy perspective. Active welfare policies create good conditions for success in criminal policy. This means that criminal policy is seen in the context of an effective social and integration policy and child and youth policy. On Monday 12 November, we woke up to a front page of the VG that revealed a brutal statistic: «72 women killed by their 7-year-olds» I repeat: 72 women killed by their men in seven years! We cannot accept violence in close relationships. These are not personal tragedies; this is a violation of Norwegian law — one of the most serious crimes. The government is working heavily to prevent this violence by increasing the budget of the police. We are also focusing on crisis centres to protect women at risk of violence. The government aims to ensure victims of serious crime better follow-up than today. We strengthen the rights of the offended. We have put forward proposals to extend the right to an aid lawyer. The scheme is now to be extended to children under the age of 16 who are victims of sexual acts, victims of violence in close relations and victims of trafficking in human beings and sexual mutilation. In addition, it is proposed that survivors who have died as a result of a criminal offence be entitled to an aid lawyer. We strengthen the rights of those who are offended by the strengthening of the system of compensation for victims of violence. There will now be an extension of criminal offences which may fall within the scope of the law, by the introduction of a specific pension scheme and by the possibility for victims to be better informed of their cases. These are good measures. There are recently established two new children's homes in Bergen and in Hamar. Children’s homes shall provide comprehensive assistance, care and treatment to children who have been subjected to violence and sexual assault or who have witnessed violence in close relationships. We're proud that it's going to be set at 5.5 million. kr to establish another three children's home next year. SV is proud that this has now become a nationwide offer, also because it was SV that was a major driver for the children's houses. SV will focus on the rapid resolution of crimes, in particular domestic violence, sexual assault and violence involving children. SV is therefore pleased that the budget introduces extended use of DNA analyses, both in terms of persons and traces, as evidence in criminal proceedings. This will help to resolve several assaults and violence, provide rapid upliftment to the victims, and speedy convictions and acquittals. This year's budget is a major effort in criminal matters. The budget has an increase of 630 million in total. kr. We're going to set up 77 new prisons, and it's worth noting in this context that the settlement queues are halved in just over a year, and they haven't been that low in seven years. There is reason to congratulate the State Council of Storberget for a very successful effort. The Government deserves praise! SV is concerned with good criminal care, considering that not everything is just about people being punished harder and more zoning, but that they should be rehabilitated and come out again with new opportunities. SV is very satisfied that it is set of 40 million. kr for a nationwide trial project with criminal execution by electronic control. We believe that this type of action can contribute to a more flexible transition between the closed-ended settlement and subsequent play, without the transition becoming too abrupt for the person who is going back to society. EN works to strengthen local police work, improve police preparedness throughout the country and stop the closure of LEN's office. Decentralisation and neighbourhood police with knowledge of the local environment are important. Today, the police have a challenge in terms of the manning situation. And why? Well, if we go back a little bit in time, until 2003 and 2004, what happened then? Who, then, was in government? It was the admission to the Police College in these years that we now, three and four years later, get to notice the consequences of. It was the Bondevik government that was in the government offices, and in 2003 it chose to downgrade the number of students at the Police College to a bulwark level. There were only 235 students who were recorded. Today’s government has taken responsibility for the situation in the police, and this year the student survey is a total of 432 police students – an increase of almost 200 from 2003. The year's high student admission is to be continued next year. The attack on Eugene Obiora at a social office in Trondheim on 7 September last year ended disastrously. Obiora died under the baske roof that started with the police. The Obiora case has once again focused on how the police deal with their encounter with citizens with a minority background, and what kind of trust relationships exist between them. SV and I are very concerned that we should have a non-racism administration, and we are concerned that we need to look at, among other things. the content of the training of our policemen. It will be interesting to look at the surveys planned in the pre-school, post-school and post-secondary positions in the police. The police have a high level of confidence in the population. It's very much appreciated. However, it is important to work hard and continuously to ensure that the population with a minority background has the same relationship with the police as the general population. In this context, we would stress that it is particularly positive that the admission of students with a minority background is so high. This will be a strength for the police, for the culture of the police and for the trust between the police and the population. We are proud of the great effort made by the rescue services in the 2008 budget. All in all, we're strengthening the rescue services by 168 million. kr in 2008. The rescue service in Norway is organised as a cooperative between private and non-governmental organisations and several public agencies. The volunteers are absolutely essential in many rescue operations. We are therefore very pleased that the grant to the voluntary organisations has doubled, from approx. Six million. NOK 12 million. kr in 2008. We are proud that the medical system is in place, and that the whole country is getting a good response with a short response time. This is a budget we have reason to be proud of, while we have a way to go. This means that we should use the rest of the ageing period to ensure further strengthening of the efforts against violence in close relations, at all stages of the police, a non-racism justice administration and the content of criminal justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1375	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1378	The representative of Chaudhry has been involved in prevention, and I think we can both agree that the Conciliation Councils are a good prevention measure. We see that in the budgetary position, the government parties, and of course Chaudhry, go in to cut the meeting compensation to the Conciliation Councils. Does the representative not believe that the Conciliation Councils are important and make a great effort? Why won't SV value this effort better?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1385	We fully agree that the Conciliation Councils are doing a very good job of reducing the pressure on the justice sector and on the courts. We are very pleased with the efforts this government is making to strengthen the conciliation councils. The Judicial Committee, and SV, are also very concerned about strengthening the Conciliation Councils. In a very short time, we're going to have an open discussion about the settlement councils and the settlement councils, to further strengthen their position during the rest of the time this government has at its disposal. We are pleased with the efforts made by the Government for the settlement councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1391	The representatives of the government parties, with Inga Marte Thorkildsen at the head, have traveled to Sandefjord in turn and order to give their support to the women's prison, as the government had proposed. We could read in the magazine of the Norwegian Fengsels- und Freiorgsförbund that the offer was not to be made. But the matter does not stop there, because in the budgetary remarks the red-greens have written that the offer is to be re-assessed ‘when the queue has been closed’. I believe that this women's zoning offer in Sandefjord is a very important offer for a vulnerable group of women, and many hearing bodies have been very critical of the proposal for closure. But I want to ask the representative Chaudhry questions about what SV really means in this case. Do you mean put down the women's prison? Is that supposed to pass? Or, what does it mean to come back and review it when you've said that it's going to live on?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1400	SV has no policy other than what is now in the budget we are going to adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1405	It is clear that the government parties have presented the same Bolshevik history in connection with the admission to the School of Police. Under two Stoltenberg budgets there were 240, under three out of four Bondevik II budgets it rose, first to 290, then to 360 – and 360. I assume that the representative Chaudhry and the undersigned agree that we need more policemen. So my specific question to the representative Chaudhry is: what will he do – and what will SV do – with the fact that in Oslo center we have few policemen, we have many guards. We have disturbing stories, no later than a week and a half ago, that weights take the sellers of = Oslo, use handcuffs in situations far away from what I think might be necessary, take them into enclosed spaces, and at all events act in a completely indescribable way. At the same time, the police get an unusually good certificate, but with that heartache: there are too few of them! What will SV, and the representative Chaudhry, do to rectify this relationship – first of all to stop the attacks on the scales against perhaps the weakest in our entire society?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1414	I agree with the representative of Dørum that police work is to be conducted by the police. That is what gives the greatest security in the country, not least in our city, where both I and the representative Dørum come from. Then I'd like to ask the representative Dørum to notice that the budget in the justice field has increased by 1.9 billion kroner, and that we strengthen the police by 245 million. kr. These are the means to strengthen the police, and ensure the security of our streets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1426	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1429	In view of how many people are listening to this debate, and who are probably also going to read the record from it, it was possible to finally clarify how many have been raised at the Police College in recent years, as former Minister Dørum has now done – so right is to be in relation to what I said in my reply. In the justice debate, we are debating some of the central tasks of the state, and it is quick to dig down in numbers and in who did what at what time. We're going to fall for each of them. What I initially wanted to address is to the extent that the general debate in the field of justice and the police. Just the sector we are discussing here is a sector that is particularly dependent on quality and a little bit long lines. At the same time, I am often struck by the fact that there are few other sectors that saw to those degrees the events of the general debate, and thus also of the general political debate. It's a challenge for us all that we're able to see things in context, see that it's the long-term work we're doing, whether it's in government or in mass, that also forms the basis for a state of law, as we want it to be. With that, I'm going to move on to more detail: the 2008 budget. I can't help but say a few words about the police budget. Number is one thing – how much has the increase been, how much percent has the police budget increased, etc.It is certainly a debate that has many facets. But after having been on some political boards, I still think I have to be able to say that it is tight at the moment, very tight in many places, despite money transfers that have increased, etc. But it is clear that the tasks have increased, and the increase in costs and prices has also been significant. I also think that, for example, the new working time regulations have a significant role to play in terms of how they are felt around the individual offices or in the individual police districts in relation to their degree of freedom. From our side, we asked about it in the budget. I note that the Ministry does not yet have a response to the effect of the working time regulations on the degree of freedom in the budget, but I think, when you look at it a little bit closer, that this has become a handicap in the dynamics of the operational service in many cases. How we're going to fix it, we're going to get back to it. In our alternative budget, we are strengthening the operating budget somewhat. I don't want to say that there's any sensation that we're doing, but some reinforcement. We also strengthen it so that we get a new children's home, and we also strengthen the voluntary organisations and the after-protection they operate. We are about to receive a criminal health report that we are looking forward to, and I am convinced that we have a lot to get in closer cooperation with the voluntary organisations when a prison stay has been brought to an end – not least in order to prevent a new prison stay from occurring immediately afterwards. I will give tribute to the Government for the work they do in relation to violence against children and young people. There I think it's a genuine commitment that also manifests, and it also had the previous Minister of Justice. I think it is incredibly important that we get results in the long term, that this part is being held under pressure, which is often forgotten in the ongoing debate, both by getting competence out in the police districts, that priority is given to the conduct of assaults and investigations, and, not least – and I am coming back to that when we are going to review new criminal laws and the specific provisions – that responses are also given in line with the extent of the abuse that this entails to a large extent. I get back to the unfortunate situation we had with the fire at Oslo S, and what it also showed about weaknesses in police preparedness for terror. I'll put that in a line. With regard to voting – time running out now – we support the minority proposals, with the exception of proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1448	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1451	On the right came a very clear explanation to the voters that they do not want and cannot sit in a government with a party that does not take the rule of action seriously. I assume that the Christian People's Party also shares this view. I have also noted Right's confrontational policy in the judicial policy against the government party – it was just listening to the speeches here today: Everything was better before. I have also noticed that the Christian People's Party has put itself on a much more atoning line, where the focus is to get the best possible result. We're happy about that. When it comes to the drugs policy, the Progress Party stands by itself and wants to open cranes around the clock, with the consequences it will have. I and the Government Party are in complete agreement with the Christian People's Party that we should have a restrictive Russian policy, but where do the limits of what Christian People's Party will tolerate by a government party when it comes to the drugs policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1458	First of all, I would like to thank you for bringing the rule of action and economic policy into the debate on justice, which fits perfectly well for the undersigned, who have a slightly different starting point than the others in the debate here today. At least I can assure the representative Heggø that the Christian People's Party will be responsible for economic policy. With regard to the drug policy and the relationship with the Progress Party, I guess I'm going to say that I think it might have been a clue to a slight change in the intervention of the representative Ellingen earlier today. In fact, I do not think he totally rejected the fact that there is a link between the policy area of drugs and the adverse effects of drug abuse and criminal policy. I would like to end by saying that there has traditionally been – and I perceive that it is still – more common between the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party at that point than between the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. But as I said, there can be hope for improvements both here and there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1467	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1471	The left has the same opinion as the representative of the Seven when he says that justice policy is important with long lines and clear values. From that point of view, I would like to touch on three important points in this article. That is – first of all – what is going to happen through reconciliation and reconciliation policies, what kind of security we are going to guarantee the citizens of daily life, and what we are going to do for some of the most vulnerable and vulnerable. Let me start with the last one first. There is no doubt that there are Community lines through a series of governments, also in relation to the one currently sitting, in terms of the will to rescue children and young people. Nor is there any doubt that the same applies to the fight against violence in close relations and the fight against trafficking. That's good. For this is one of the areas where policy can only be won through tough and systematic work over a long period of time, and by one perpetuating. That is why the Left has also put forward a proposal here in Stortinget, which is now coming to the Justice Committee, asking us to have our own commission to review all the issues that have resulted from people who have been killed after violence in close relations – not to find the scapegoats, but simply to make something wiser for all of us. Then to the policy of restitution. The big headlines I think there's a broad consensus about in most of the parties. Those who can return to society, and it's up to most people, to do so. Where we have big challenges – whether it's those we use for custody or those we call the "stupid guys," we have to think differently. But also the ‘stupid guys’ are going back to society. The left has some concern as the queue goes down – but we don't have any evidence for it – because we can risk getting a mix of some funny guys and some guys who aren't. I don't think it's the intention of the Grand Mountains Council, but we feel reason to take it up, for the whole purpose of some being rehabilitated, is that you don't get rehearsals of what happened at the institution Krogsrud under Ullersmo National Prison a few years ago, where it just put organized criminals in state-paid time and organized criminal activity. I guess no one in this room wants that, but I choose to take it up this way to make it lie there. When we have put forward a proposal on what a settlement of the reconciliation queue will mean – that it also means to wind up the measures I proposed in due time about extraordinary duplication and the prospect of release – it is because the Government and the government parties have expressed it differently in the Chamber today. However, if the Council of State makes it clear that the substance of the proposal is equal to the comments made by the government fraction in the suspension of justice, I would like to revisit the proposal for a transmission proposal. But the uncertainty has led me to promote the proposal. So the left in the financial position has addressed the following: Why should it be so wrong to live in Bergen? To put it another way: why in the world can't a few speeds on Gulating law? It's completely incomprehensible that you have to be punished for doing good in the court in Bergen, when you can never pass either state building or others to get to Gulating. The Committee has a dry statement on this matter. I choose to underline it this way. Finally, about the police. Of course it's going to be well managed, but I guess in this room there's also a consensus that we must always have enough people. The starting point for the left is that we don't want any country of weight. And if we're not to have a state of weight, we need enough people. We know that in a country like Norway, with a high level of costs and wages, it costs money to have people. But we prefer to have more people. That's why, for me, a few years ago, after we had completed the first steps of the major police reform, the escalation to the Police College began – from 240 to 290 to 360. So I hope that we release this Bolshevik history, where someone needs to make a little bit of a big deal by "paining on" the story in a negative direction. So it's good that the sitting government has gone up to 432. Left wants to go up to 550. We have said in our draft state budget, which fell a few days ago, that in the next ten years we will need at least 2,000 policemen in Norway to keep the level in other Nordic countries, and we need about. 1000 persons in civil positions. As we train police, we can employ people in civilian positions, because they can relieve trained policemen. Those proposals were in our original budget, and they have fallen. But I feel reason to underline it. We set that goal, because it doesn't help in everyday life if you don't have enough people. As I mentioned in the line-up with the representative Chaudhry. Instruments that respond to them are simply totally unacceptable. We can't have a legal state where someone uses handcuffs systematically under the pretext that it's emergency. We cannot have a legal state where beggars or sellers of the magazine = Oslo are taken into enclosed rooms. We can't have such a state of justice – then we'll step into a value choice that I don't suppose nobody in this room will have. Finally, the Left will vote in favour of the proposal No. 1-6, of the Right and Advance Party, and proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the right. Our own proposal, No. 10, I'll take this up. But I've clarified the assumption for the proposal and what it's like to perceive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1492	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1497	We are aware that the police have vacancies because they do not have applicants. It's unfortunate. Then we can ask ourselves why we have too few trained policemen. That's what we were a little bit concerned about, that we were done with this number magic in relation to the recordings, but I'm not going to give up on it completely. Some of the explanation may be that during the Bondevik II administration the capacity was not utilized at the Police College, and for several years no more than 250 students per. years. The government of Stoltenberg II has now run two school years with full admission, which is 432 students. That's why I want to ask the representative Dørum from the Left, who represents a party that had influence in this field under the previous government, whether it was unexpected for the Left that we have too few policemen to take off because of low admissions at the Police College during the Bondevik II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1504	No, it wasn't unexpected at all. In three out of four budgets that I was responsible for, the recording increased from 240 to 290 to 360 – and 360. The new government has increased it to 432. It's got Left's rose. Let's go for 550. And before this, there were also low numbers under the government of Stoltenberg I. So it wasn't unexpected. But at that time we had our full rent with what's called the police reform, the biggest conversion of the Norwegian police ever, where the goal, among other things. was to ensure that more policemen came out, and that not so much administrative work was done. But because it is now that there are too few people, I have used the historical knowledge I have, to suggest that the recording should be up to 550 – that is, 2,000 more police over a ten-year period – and 1,000 civilians. When the police role report, presented in 2005, was discussed at Stortinget in 2006, there was a broad consensus. So the Left in the Chamber submitted suggestions on the staffing plan with which the current government was working. We took the initiative because we saw that there was something wrong here. Therefore, this increase for three out of four financial years. It was this insight that led to that change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1511	The representative Dørum is very concerned with doubling. It's also this government. Governments know we're very concerned about it, and we're working for a solution here. But we want to take another stand for the reconciliation queue, as I said in my main post. The reconciliation queue is now as low as it hasn't been in seven years. The way we calculate it, there's no more than about 1,100 people who are really in the payroll. It must be a pleasure for the representative, Mr Dørum, and I think this is a policy that he should be able to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1518	Yes, it is very gratifying that the reconciliation queue goes down, and it rests on two things: it is based on the creation of approx. 400 real settlements under the previous government, of which approx. 60 pst. – I think – was closed, and that the new government has continued to bet on two tracks, in which I myself had great faith, namely community punishment and open atonement. That it gives results is very good. There's no reason other than to enjoy it. That is also why I have made a proposal, which I hope will now be confirmed, that when the queue approaches a winding-up, we shall also not have early release or duplication. Doubling is a udder, it's done in pure distress. But the left is worried about when it comes to compensation per. Today, maybe we don't have enough closed spaces, and we're always at risk of breaking the so-called smooth cell cone, which makes us get international organizations on our necks. We risk that the police don't have enough room to look after, and that in the worst case – I'm worried about this, but cannot say it in any other way – we can get an unfortunate mix of some of the silly guys, that is, the organized criminals, and those who can obviously return to society through wise measures, through free care and through it to rescue children and young people. At these points, there's a lot to enjoy, and I'd like to say that to the representative Chaudhry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1527	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1530	First of all, I would like to thank the Government for all the praise it deserves in terms of justice policy – I have noted all the points that have come. At the same time, I want to say – and return it to the opposition: many of the points where we feel that we are achieving good results in creating a safer society have also been supported by the opposition. I'm not saying that to tear down all possible future judicial debates, but to show that in public space, we often tend to show great disunity in the field of justice and have quite rough fronts, while we agree on the main lines. And that's important. It is important in terms of the trust and legitimacy of the most stringent coercive means a society can use, whether through police or criminal justice. I also believe that this is a strength for policy, especially at a time when we have ambitions to change things. There are issues of police force, that we need a closer police force. We need policemen in some form out in the streets. We are also well in the process of reporting on how future criminal justice should be. I am glad that in a debate on resources we can actually experience that the opposition is so liberal that they point out that there are developments that we all think are good. The work undertaken by the Government, which is also a continuation of the work of former governments in pointing to the violence that affects women and children, is certainly important that we stand together. I am very pleased that there has not been any party politics in such a way as to say any of those debates. I think it's a force. I think it'll make us stronger when it comes to as serious antagonism as we're talking about here. The problem is great in scope. There's a type of crime that affects women and children, like at home, where you don't have a safe haven to apply for. Besides, it's often a breach of trust, which makes the wounds much bigger. The last challenge, which makes me happy that almost everyone here has pointed it out, is that in terms of violence against women and children, violence in close relationships, probably has to be quite as different from what we experience in the context of traditional crime as we meet it out in public space. That calls for another debate in the field of justice. Much of the agenda on which we are caught in terms of police resources in relation to visible crime, and on which the media are often aware, does not respond to the children and women who are struggling. Many of the recipes that we often come up with when it comes to combating criminal acts do not give the desired effect to such vulnerable groups. That's why it's good that we're together about as much as we actually do. I am not quite a little proud that during these two years we have been able to take action in relation to something that was the most important promise – not only from the government side, but also from my side, the time when I sailed in opposition, and I have seen that there has been some attention around that issue – namely, to be able to do something about the reconciliation queue in Norway. It is gratifying, as the representative Chaudhry had in his line, that the queue has fallen, that we are actually starting to approach 1,000 people in a queue, and that we see the possibility that the goal of closing the queue during this period is within reach. What is even more enjoyable is that in the work, on which there is a great deal of agreement in the Storting – with some exceptions in relation to alternative reactions – we have managed to do two things at once. It has been possible not only to think of quantity, but has helped to improve the quality of the forms of settlement offered — forms of settlement with a lower risk of relapse, community punishment, issues of open spaces where progress is more pronounced and places of settlement where manpower has actually been strengthened — and the issue of education in all prisons we have in Norway has now been strengthened. That's what we're about to achieve during this year, and that's very good. I think it might be one of the most important measures, a main goal of the Government, just to be able to react faster and to rehabilitate better. I also believe that the promise that the Stortinget is invited to make today in terms of clearing up more crime – which is the other great size, and also the great promise from the Red-Green Government that we will solve more crime – will be experienced when you launch the major reform on DNA. The fact that so much money is to be given today, 64 million. The Norwegian police are going to use the DNA reform not only to help take more samples, to get better analysis, but also to help clarify matters more quickly, which relieve the police. I mean – and I hope everyone in this room is concerned about it – that we have to approach the Norwegian police in such a way that, first of all, more money can be allocated, because there are many places. But second, we also need to be able to look at how we organize the police at all times, and see if we have tools that can make us able to actually get more policemen out on the streets, among other things, and that we don't spend any time on the tasks that we think we can solve with more extensive use of technology, among other things. DNA. There is a significant effort that is now being made by the police. We are in the first big investment year in terms of a completely new emergency network, which will cost us 500-600 million to next year. kr. It is true that during the next year significant investments will be made in protective equipment, which we believe is certainly important. We are faced with a situation in which we make one of the largest investments in criminal matters in order to get more closed-end sites, among other things. by realizing the construction of Halden prison. It's also inside the budget. I fully agree with those in the opposition and the position that has given us credit for the development of the Norwegian rescue service. A lot has been said about it. The representative of Ellingen was in on it. It's good to hear when he speaks that way. It is quite obvious that it means a lot to people's safety in Norway what is now being done with the Norwegian rescue service. It's an important grip Regeringen has taken during these two years to get the security and base in Florø – we've granted 16 million. kr to complete the purchase process. Decisions have been made in the Government on non-use of an option, which makes it possible for us to move a significant step forward in strengthening the rescue services. As is also known in the press, for example, before the weekend we concluded an agreement with Iceland for a cooperation on the purchase process. With regard to police resources in Norway – I will come back to it – I am also pleased that it is now agreed that it is good that we have raised it to a maximum of 432 students. Then you get to have a historical discussion that the previous government should have had up to the maximum intake – that’s what it’s all about. Had you had it during the years you had the Bondevik II government, we wouldn't have had the situation we have today, with such a problem in terms of recruitment. It's one of the main challenges, getting more policemen out. I've said it many times, and I'll say it again: it doesn't help with paper figures when it comes to Norwegian police. Therefore, I would also like to inform you that the government intends to return in an appropriate form to the Stortinget with a crew plan – we are working on it in a hectic manner – where the question of increased admission to the Police College is also included. But then we have to provide exceptional measures, new sites that make it possible. In other words, there is nothing we can just adopt today. So here's a job to do. So I would also like to make it clear, as I did last year, that the police security service in the period 2001 and until today has been significantly strengthened. They received a budget of 260.6 million for 2007. kr. It's an increase of 154 pst. from 2001. Finally, I must also give tribute to the opposition in relation to three matters in particular. I think it is positive that the Progress Party today is talking about wanting to support a return guarantee and still stands by what has been said in the past about rehabilitation. I take with me the proposal from the Right regarding children in prison, and I ask that, if necessary, it be converted into a transmission proposal. I'm glad that Right-wing promises. There, we are ready to take action, especially in the criminal health notification, so that children can be offered something else. I also think it is positive that the Christian People's Party draws attention to the post-criminal protection, and in particular to volunteering. We have a job to do there, and I'm ready to do that assignment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1556	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1559	I must be allowed to thank the Council of State for a thorough review. Where he deviated from the previous, there was no alcohol policy debate involved in this. That's one of the things we've been discussing fiercely before. In order to establish a clear foundation for the next time, I would like to ask the Council of State whether he can provide a concrete example of proposals that this government has promoted during the current period that involve a tightening of the alcohol supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1566	I will give the representative Ellingen one concrete example that can help to raise the issue of alcohol policy and also the issue of tightening up, and that is that during this year we have established over 50 police councils in the municipalities. It is in these police councils that local politicians are in power when it comes to, among other things, the issue of drugs. giving away and other forms of prevention policy, has the opportunity to get the good advice, which the police are now showing very strongly – and which is something quite different from what the Progress Party has as its current policy – namely to look at the issue of giving time and to look at the issue of total availability. So you want to be able to do that within the police councils. Moreover, we do not support the proposals of the Progress Party on the approximation of taxes on alcohol, which will make it much cheaper to increase total consumption. So if you ask me one concrete example to sharpen the alcohol policy, it has to be the Norwegian Police Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1574	Many rapporteurs express great concern at police resources and lack of staff, which have been further reinforced and exacerbated since the arrival of the new working time regulations. In the long term, increased admissions to the Police College and the crew project can give us more policemen. In the short term, we do know that there is an active senior policy and more civilians who will be able to quickly give us more people now. Then is my first question to the Council of State: How will he explain that the Government says it will be investing in seniors and civil servants, but does it provide an operational budget for the police in 2008 that does not pay for such a bet on new employees? My other question is: Is it correctly understood that the Council of State is refusing to launch a police study that can provide the Stortinget with the basis we need to know how many police officers Norway needs in 2030?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1583	I have heard the representative Aspaker many times now argue about this with a police study. We're in the process of a police study, which we have ambitions to get to Stortinget with in an appropriate form. Then you can call it a police study or a crew plan for a short time and a long time – we're doing that work. I don't think we disagree on the need for that. With regard to the question of local rapporteurs who are now calling for more policemen, the first thing I think we should stress is very much towards, among other things. These include strengthening the police in relation to the budgetary situation, including: what I now said in my main post concerning DNA. We continue the efforts we made, among other things: in the revised national budget. But the most important answer the representative of Aspaker can give to the rapporteurs she is meeting is enough that the previous government was wrong in that it did not do as the red-green government now does, namely have a 432 record. Had we had it during these years, we could have manned the positions that the police today are calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1590	It could be a little tempting to keep on saying that when we don't have the police people we want, the more we need to use the ones we have, in the best possible way, and perhaps also to see if any of the tasks they have can be carried out by others. I'm counting on the government to work on it. So the aftereffects of the cable fire on Oslo S that we had last week. There are many who have looked at the effect of it and asked themselves what can be done to ensure that we do not get such a situation the next time a fire occurs. As far as I understand, parts of the anti-terrorist centre at the Center Police Station were out of play. There is also something on which the National Audit Office has had a review, and the Directorate of Police has said that there was little risk. The State Secretary of the Department has said that there is a questioning of what has happened. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice: how does the Department follow this up, so that we do not get into a similar situation another time, but have a satisfactory back-up solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1599	There is reason to take these kinds of situations very seriously. The Ministry of Justice received the early report from the sample that just looked at critical infrastructure. It will form a very important arrow in the work we are doing now to create a new message on social security, which will be presented to the Stortinget next year. The overall lines in relation to this type of action will thus be given the opportunity to discuss in Stortinget. It's extremely important that you do it. Then you will also be able to decide on the question of whether it is right to organise it as I think it is right to do so, that you have the principle of responsibility, the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of equality. With regard to the specific incident, I would like to point out what the police director has said, that it did not actually hit the preparedness that you have. There's reason to underline it. But we have found it so serious that we have asked for a special report from both the police director and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1606	I have two questions in connection with atonement. Can I understand the Minister of Justice so that he supports the views of the majority of the Committee that the use of forward release and the exceptional duplication in connection with the termination of the queue will be terminated, and at the latest when the queue is gone? That's the one question. My second question is: When what happens now with the reconciliation queue, that it is being built down – and that is positive – is the Council of States confident that we do not get a wrong social balance between what we can call the lurid guys – i.e. people associated with organized crime – and others who zone on completely different conditions, and who make up the dominant part and the large number of those who sit in institutions? I choose to ask the question this way, because it's a difficult question, but I think it's important to know that this qualitative trajectory is also taken care of, namely, the differentiation between the compensation ratio for those we can call the right guys, and the trick guys.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1613	On the first question, I fully support what the majority writes in their remarks on the budget. It is the government's clear ambition that forward release and duplication should be phased out when the reconciliation queue is gone. I can inform the representative that we are working on it in these days to see if we can do anything now, before the reconciliation queue is closed, among other things. Because I'm very concerned that we should be able to get rid of doubles as quickly as possible and also these quadruple rooms in the Åna prison. So we'll get back to that in appropriate form. With regard to the question of how we are now using our new reconciliation institutions, we are very concerned that we are not going to get such a mix as the representative points out. In the time we live in, we need to put the security aspects high in relation to the crime being discovered. In fact, I believe that winding up the reconciliation queue makes us better able to – I kept saying – “arrund” with the inmates in a better way than what we have done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1620	The budget describes measures to keep police officers more at work as measures that have a short-term impact. In the media recently, the Council of State said something that can be interpreted a little differently. Does the Council of State agree that an active senior policy, like an increased grade at the Police College, is a long-term measure, not a short-term one?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1625	I agree that the measures as such are long-term, in the sense that they can last over time. And if we find good mechanisms now, and it looks like we can do – there's a pilot project going on in relation to the issue of senior policy – there's no need to wind it up. In fact, I believe that we need the capacity and competence of police officers, especially when one has been in the industry for some time. And so it's like the seniors who choose to stay longer in the police have a limitation in time, because even though the red-green government can rub a lot, people still get old and have to retire. We can't really do anything about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1632	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1635	As a politician, I want to work for a safe and good society to live in for all the inhabitants of our country. I want to put more emphasis on helping those who don't have the resources to assert their rights, and then it's very important that we politicians see the children who have it difficult. The Nordic Council was presented with a report which said that in Europe there are as many as nine to twelve million children who, because of domestic or other reasons, have been subjected to care failures or abuses of different types. In Norway, the police conducted an investigation on a weekly basis and found out that as many as 1,000 women approached the police because of family violence. This means that about 2,000 children are witnesses to violence or may have been subjected to violence in one week in Norway. There are many children! I am therefore pleased that today's government is aiming to combat child abuse in terms of violence in close relations and sexual abuse. Public Norway is often not organized for children. Where, for example: children who are subject to abuse, contact the police, child protection? There's a hearing at the police station, a medical examination at the hospital, and they need to talk to a psychologist. Here it is important that public agencies be able to work across the sectors. The government has done something about that. We've picked up the idea from Iceland and what they call Barna's House. In the 2007 budget, the government has spent money on two children’s homes, as it is called in Norway. I am glad that on November 1, this year, we opened the first children’s home in Norway. One is optimistic about working together between professional environments, and sees that this is the way to go to give these children the best possible offer. On December 18th, the next children's house will open at Hamar. The children should not be dragged around in meetings here and there, but should go to a room that is suitable for young children. Here, the professionals who can receive them in a professionally sound manner meet and care for them. Psychological and medical examinations and police and judicial hearings shall take place in one and the same place, in a safe environment for the child. Often the child’s family has been violent against his mother, or has been subjected to abuse. Therefore, it is important that we increase the use of video interviews in such cases, so that children do not witness in the courtroom, which may be a great burden to them. The budget proposes 5.5 million. SEK for the establishment of three new children’s homes in 2008. We're trying to make the offer nationwide and that it's going to follow the health regions. Two of those coming in 2008 come in Tromsø and Kristiansand. It is important that children in the districts are also given the opportunity to meet professionals in this area. The government will strengthen the offended position in criminal matters and have created an insulting package of well over 13 million. kr. This will also help those who are exposed to violence in close relationships. It is also a proposal for a pilot project, with free support for crime victims. I think it is important that we have a low-threshold offer in this area, as such a telephone can be. The Office for the Compensation of Victims receives an increase of 1.5 million. kr. We have gone into and looked at the aid lawyer system, which will be extended to apply before notification in cases of violence in close relations. We will give children who are witnesses to violence the opportunity to seek compensation for their victims. Before Christmas, the government is presenting an action plan against violence in close relations. It will help to bring together a number of measures that will help to combat violence in close relationships. The Soria Moria Declaration suggests that the Government should intensify its efforts in the area of child abuse. Things happen in this area, and that's good! After all, the representative Syversen of the Christian People's Party also gave us justifiable publicity in this area. The government is adding an increase to the police of 245 million in the draft budget. kr. Some of this will go to family violence coordinators in 100 p.m. positions in police districts. The largest police districts will also have family violence teams, which will be a kind of cryptos capable of assisting and assisting the small relief offices that do not have the same experience in investigating such matters. State Council Storberget is co-editor of a book called «Bjornen sleeping». It came last month, and the theme is violence in close relationships. This is where professionals and people who have self-experienced stories are represented. It was particularly strong to read about the children who had to live in a crisis centre for shorter or longer periods. Some actually live in crisis centers for up to half a year. It gives us great challenges in helping these children. Someone has called this book a "jo" and "hey" contribution from the Council of State, but I think it's only affordable that he gets engaged. In fact, I think the book can be a Christmas gift tip for politicians who always need more knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1667	I expect that I will receive a Christmas present from the Council of State, so he knows what he will send in the mail to me! I also record that the Central Party has not yet taken the floor. It's understandable, based on the police budgets in the districts. When we debated the languages of the throne, the Right showed that prevention is one of the government's three mantras of justice policy. That objective is clear enough and was repeated at the presentation of the budget, and also here today. And of course, we're dividing that goal to the fullest. However, having the aim of preventing better helps little when action is not followed up in order to meet the promises made in the justice sector, combined with all the promises made on behalf of other Council members. The fact that this year's budget would result in real cuts in police operating budgets was met with headshaking of the representatives of the government parties. The same representatives were equally headstrong when the corresponding reality description was presented at the police national meeting at Hamar a few weeks ago. The fact that this would cause the overall prevention effort to be harmed by the fact that the police would not be able to carry out effective prevention work, combined with the lack of effort in the drug field, in the psychiatry and in the field of child protection, was met with a lack of constructive opposition. You would have hoped that we would be more positive. In the comments on the Justice Budget we have this time praised the Government for what is to praise, and more, not least the bet on Barna's House – even if there should be one in Oslo as well. I hope that I will be in place at the latest by the time of the revision. But it is reassuring to read the comments and see how self-satisfied it is to be when you have a parliamentary majority. It is possible to understand that it feels unfair to get criticism when promising action in most areas. But the situation is that the government does not deliver in terms of prevention, despite 130 billion more to distribution. It is a problem that, on the part of some government councils, you are more concerned with talking about sugar and gorges than with preventing crime through psychiatry and better rehabilitation. Is there something, for example: People with a combined drug and crime problem do not need anti-sugar campaigns and gorges to measure the number of times they have to go back and forth between different public authorities without getting help. The constant assurances that initiatives are to be taken across borders become a bit hollow when, from the same state as the Minister of Justice, the Council of State responsible for this, except for the question of sugar, is largely not available for comments. We have a child protection where many children who need follow-up, guidance and careful bordering live instead under conditions that would have been considered a care failure and lack of bordering if they had lived at home. The police in several parts of the country are concerned that their prevention work is almost abandoned when some children enter institutions. Then there's even greater reason to think that parts of the majority almost as an ideological reflex do not see the value of the work done by private individuals in the field, and build down the offers that are probably the most important crime prevention measure we can imagine. In a situation where we get feedback that the care and the community penalty are not working according to the intentions, and many experience a lack of follow-up, it is, as we see it, that the representative Aspaker has been involved in, both risky and great, to spend $10 million on electronic reconciliation. It is a small targeted use of money and goes at the expense of those who need it the most. I should also like to see our proposal on insulting centres in all the police districts of the country supported. I find that the committee leader does not want to answer questions about compensation for victims of violence, but I hope that there will be some changes during the debate, that one not only rushes through the matter in Stortingen regarding changes in the law, but comes back later. Otherwise, I'm also glad that the newly elected committee head, for the sake of history, and for the possibility of giving a somewhat despicable first impression in his first debate on justice, a little counter-approachingly accepted Dørum's number, which is actually correct history. In the last two years, the number of grades in the Police College increased more than in the previous government. Otherwise, I must finally say that I am pleased that the Council of State is basing on how much we agree on. Actually, we are. It was in a certain contrast to the committee leader's description of the Progress Party and the Right that was closest to the right of Bush or something in that direction, so I hope we got a conclusion to the debate that is approaching some of what I felt the Council of State put up to describe what is real disagreement, and what is not.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1698	Security for life and property is important, and it's the sun's brighter right to have security. That is why we have a major challenge in society today – the police have a major challenge. We're sitting with a minimum police force today to solve problems far beyond what we've got crews for. If we compare ourselves to other Scandinavian countries, for example. Denmark and Sweden, they have one police officer per approx. 500 inhabitants. In Norway, we have one police officer per year. approx. Six hundred. It's a challenge. I am pleased that the government has now increased the admission to the Police College, and that we will be able to gradually bring more employees into the police department. But then we also demand that there be increases in the budgets of the police, so that they are given the opportunity to take in more staff, so that they can allow police officers who are approaching retirement age to continue their service, and so that they can afford to give more civil servants jobs within the police and thus contribute to the release of investigation resources. The Progress Party wants to increase the police budget by NOK 300 million. This is what we believe we will be able to do and contribute to increased efforts by the police. We also want to make a separate investment budget for the police. We have a huge backlog within the police in the case of modern equipment and cars, among other things. We also want the investment budget to bet on non-lethal weapons. We want an investment budget for the next two years at approx. 500 million. kr. We don't think this is enough, but it's at least a good step on the way. With regard to Oslo police in particular, they are facing some challenges that the rest of the country's police don't have. Oslo is the capital of the country in terms of the state seat, but it is also a drug capital and a main seat for large parts of organized and heavy crime. We also have a population density in Oslo that causes a large part of everyday crime to lie in this area. That means that the Oslo Police alone will need much more resources than the rest of the country. They also have a problem with, among other things, the resolution of crime of violence and rape. There has to be a real commitment here, and we believe that the Oslo police budget needs to be considerably increased. It is regrettable that you can go down the country's main street and see that drugs are being traded openly without anyone lifting a finger to do anything about it. There has been a lot of boasting that the housing queue has now been reduced. It is positive that we have a reduction in the queue, but the Progress Party is skeptical to some of the methods used to reduce the queue, among other things. probation, exceptional discounts, community penalties, etc. We believe this is moving the problems from the inside of the walls to the outside. There is also disagreement in the way social penalties are used, and in particular this with regard to home sonarism. It surprises me a little bit that it is the Workers' Party that proposes home-soning, which I call a proponent where you get a social-class divorce. Because it goes without saying that people like Kjell Inge Smoke will have far better means of reconciliation and reconciliation than the one who lives in a cardboard box down by Akerselva. We have seen that there is now an increase and a commitment in prevention. It's incredibly positive. Some of the prevention activities take place, inter alia: in conflict and settlement councils. Considerable resources shall be invested here, for this results. But then I am a little surprised that the conciliation board and the conflict council, and also the job that judges do in the courts, are not properly valued. In fact, the government is proposing to cut the meeting compensation to the settlement councils. They propose to cut the meeting allowance for co-judges in court cases. They say that this is a social obligation. Yes, it's a social duty to be a fellow judge. It is a social obligation to choose to sit in the Conciliation Board. But has the Council of State considered the burdens that these members have when sitting in these councils, and not least those who sit as co- magistrates in the courtroom? They get to hear tragic stories about the course of events in serious violence, and they get to see pictures that are not exactly pretty and suitable for the public. They have to take this burden with them when they go home after they have been in legal proceedings, and then we will ‘value’ them by cutting the small meeting allowance they have. This is beneath all dignity. And then I'll finally be allowed, like some other representatives, to give praise to the Government. As a representative of Uppland County, I am of course pleased that the Government and the Storberg will now bet on the Slide Island in West Slider. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1715	Collecting the permits for criminal services will add up to about 630 million. kr. Full imprisonment for several years has been a burden on both the buildings and their additions, and I therefore think it is very gratifying that we manage to increase the operating budget within the criminal justice system by approx. Twenty million. kr. We will also build new prison sites next year – 77 new ones – and this means that we have now increased the number by approx. 400 new prison places in three years. In addition, Halden will have 251 new places in 2010. I also want to point out how important it is that there are ten new storage sites in Trondheim. Two KRAmi test projects are under way, and for this, it's set at just over 2 million. kr, there at the top of 1 million. kr goes to ‘Think Security’ in the Sogn and Årdal region and about 1 million. kr goes to Rogaland's project. These are extras, and as I see it, we just need to put the drug treatment facilities at Tronvik before the parish project is 100 pst. in place. The purpose of the government is to reduce the time between a criminal offence and a conviction and to start the sentence. Likewise, we're busy punishing smarter. The goal is rehabilitation. We are trying out new methods, such as: Drug Court in Bergen and Oslo, and now would like to start with electronic adjournment. There are six pilot projects, one in every police district, which correspond to about 130 prisons. This is not a cooling solution, but we learn from good experience from Sweden, which shows that electronic housing, or footrest, works as intended – it provides rehabilitation. I would like to say right away that this measure is not intended as an excuse for serious crime. No, it's for less serious crime, or as the last part of atoning where one is to be excluded from normal social life. Young lawbreakers sons in their own home, must go to school or work as normal, but otherwise must stay within the house's four walls. I have been on a study trip to Sweden, where we among other things. got to hear that many actually don't want electronic atonement because it's so strict: a host very alone, here's not common space, here's no exercise room, and neither is a dress or a cell washed. It's taking away a freedom that is punished, here or otherwise. I am very pleased that a group committee has supported the desire for a special focus on women's soning, and that women's soning places should be mentioned separately in the criminal care plan coming to spring, including that we also have the «fred» Sandefjord prison, so that this offer is considered as a whole. Atonement cows – this strange phenomenon, where the judge has to wait to get into prison, yes, they can go and wait for years – are about to disappear, and that's good. I think I've all said that here in the hall today. The queues are actually halved in the last year. Some of the things that really fight against me and most people's convictions are that convicted people who go waiting to come into atoning make new laws. Then I have with wonder noticed the discussion about open and closed prisons, where some do not count with the open places. For example, a lift break says: on Bjørgvin. So what's the logic that judges who go free in society and wait to come in to the settlement are going to be sons in the closed prison? Avoidance sin No. 1 from the previous government – it is said here many times – is the low recording at the Police College, and no. 2 the low recording on the KRUS. I'm very happy that we've got both of these parts in the next budget. About 60 pst. I am particularly pleased that we have put in place treatment facilities. One million. kr to treatment sites at the Tyril Foundation Frankmotunet in Folldal for women and an increase of 100 million. kr for emergency measures under the Ministry of Health and Welfare is good. It's not enough, but it's a good start. As I said, we are very pleased with the increase in Section 12 zoning sites, which provides better rehabilitation, but I would nevertheless like to point out the unfortunate fact that there is still queue to come to treatment. The risk behind the mirror for §12 prisoners is returned to prison if treatment is stopped and this additional incentive to complete the treatment is lost due to long waiting time for treatment. Several judges who would have been qualified to make atonement in institutions, sons instead of prison. Furthermore, it is important that those who sonar according to Section 12 should be able to continue the drug treatment even if the sentence is over, without entering a new line of application for treatment. The main challenge in criminal services is to break down the pay queue and get more content in the soning. We're not in the goal, but we're definitely on the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1743	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1746	The Ministry of Justice has deployed civil guardians in the VOKT — active violence and conflict prevention service. The aim is to prevent violence, bullying, conflict and racism among children and young people. Services are schools, youth clubs and organisations working for a better everyday life for young people in Norway. The presence of the jobseeker shall be the main task in the service. The jobseeker shall detect and prevent bullying, violence and conflicts in the youth environment. In addition, he shall work actively with raising awareness by being a clear role model. The WOK is considered to be an adequate and reasonable measure to prevent and prevent violence, conflict and bullying in youth environments. There was positive experience both among sponsors and guardians when this was evaluated, and the vulnerable youth experienced the experience as a personal developer. So in our increased service price without notice from 60 kroner per. day to NOK 225 per day. day(s) The undersigned asked the Council of State in writing because I feared that such an increase in expenditure could lead to fewer VOC workers and poorer conditions for important child and youth work around the country. Many of the institutions and organisations applying for or having such a job would no longer be able to afford to cover the position. In its reply, the Council of State said at the time that, as a general rule, the grantors had to pay for the use of civil guardians, and for 2007 the amount was 225 kroner per. day(s) But he also said that in the case of VOKT, the experience is that this form of service is difficult to implement at a desired level, unless the State sets a lower rate for this type of service. In parts of the contract, therefore, a subsidised grant rate of NOK 60 per tonne has been applied. day(s) The Council of State said in spring that VOKT is a meaningful service for society and for some civil guardians, and he stressed that the civil service should subsidize this form of service as far as it could within this year's budget. In November, the VOKT contracting entities received a letter from the Civil Service stating that the 2008 State budget provides for further reductions in excess of the VOKT service. All VOKT contractors now have to pay the same price for VOKT workers as for other civil guardians, i.e. NOK 225. As if this were not enough, the price has increased to NOK 250 from New Year, i.e. from NOK 60 per day to NOK 250 per day for such a successful service. This is contrary to what the Council of State signaled in June. What can the Council of State do to ensure that youth clubs, schools and others can afford a VOCT worker, and why does one fail to afford at least to maintain this at the current level?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1759	I want to raise a matter very many people in Oslo are concerned about. For a long time, there has been too long proceedings in the Foreign Affairs Section of the Oslo Police Department. The pressure increased when the EU was expanded towards Poland and the Baltic States. This, combined with the fact that the section moved to new premises, which we all see is not adapted to the crowd visiting this office, has caused great and justified irritation among the visitors. We know that people have had to be here by noon. 7 and standing in line in all kinds of weather, with infants and babies, just to be sure to submit the case papers the same day. This has been unworthy and has been raised a number of times, including with the Minister of Justice of the Bondevik Government. We are pleased that our government and the State Council of Storberget have taken the situation seriously. It was granted 9 million. kr to remedy the situation this year. These funds have been used to recruit new case handlers. This has increased procedural capacity and reduced waiting time. In addition, we have opened a new service office in the city, on Tøen. It gives better conditions in the waiting room in Storgata, even though they are still very unworthy. It is now important not to lose the case handlers who have been recruited this year. The bet must be continued. In addition, suitable premises must be looked for as soon as possible. I want to ask the Council of State to keep a sharp and constant focus on this office. That's what I and SV are going to do. I would then like to express my satisfaction at the fact that the majority of the Committee gives a clear signal that the so-called 'VIC' project in the Oslo police force will continue in 2008. There is a recognition of the good work done by the Oslo Police to give Oslo people security in their everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1768	I allow myself to come back to the question of how we liquidate the reconciliation queue. The reason I do that is that in the work that was started, which has gone on with great pressure from the sitting government, they chose to use some temporary measures. The temporary measures were exceptional duplication of the cells, and release was anticipated, with five days under 90 days of punishment, 10 days of between 90 and 180 days of punishment and 20 days of more than 180 days of punishment. From my side it was like that at the time that this was part of the hard work, and removing these measures was the same as removing the queue. So there has been some confusion about this, and the proposal I have made today is actually nothing but that I have written in the text of the proposal what the government parties say on page 22 of the committee position: ‘The majority will point out that the use of advanced release, as introduced by the Bondevik II government, shall cease at the latest when the pay queue is gone. The same applies to the use of duplicates.’» On this basis, there is no doubt that the majority of the Committee considers that these measures are part of the removal of the queue. There's nothing going to happen after the queue's gone. The Council of State's response to this perceived something unclear, but I do not choose to interpret it so that it was intended. So my question to the Council of State is whether he stands unreservedly behind the text I quoted from the committee on page 22, which I just referred to. If the Council of State confirms this, I will make the proposal I have made, proposal No. 10 to a transmission proposal. That's how I have to ask the question, in order for this to be clear. There is some conscience about this too, for measures that might challenge people's sense of justice because you have to eliminate a greater evil, namely that there is a great queue, so there are measures that should not live for a second longer than necessary. I feel that the committee majority has done this in an excellent way in the text, but I ask the question, and hope that the Minister of Justice can now clarify that there is no doubt about his relationship with the text I just read.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1778	Today, we have again been shown how the government is trying to hide behind admission figures to the Police College before 2005 when they are confronted with the situation and problems in today's Police Norway. But I will give the Council of State a new chance to respond to how the Government will finance senior actions and civil positions when the submitted budget is too small before it enters into force on 1 January 2008. We know that if 20 pst. by the seniors, it will receive and continue to receive such an offer, amounting to about 60 posts alone. If we can get more civil positions out, we also realize that this will be a very valuable input to a police force that really needs to fill up to cover the tasks they're assigned to. It is very good that a pilot project is under way in Hordaland, but I want it both in Finnmark, in Troms, in Nordland, in Sogn and Fjordane – in those parts of Norway that have these problems. Even in Oslo, I think you'd want a pilot project that could catch up with a Finn Abrahamsen, who unfortunately has found quite different things to do than to stay on in the Oslo police force. With regard to the proposal for a police study, I have to say that I think it was a very disappointing response from the Council of State. When the Council of State says that you are doing a work à la Defense Study, I find it very strange to hear, because in connection with the Defence Study, you work in a completely different way. It is anchored in a completely different way and has a window out towards society that allows you to follow, you could see, you could understand, and it was possible to make an input into the work that is going on in connection with a so-called defense study. I do not believe that the work being done in the Ministry of Justice is such a work, but in that case I would ask the Council of State if he could come to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate manner quickly and inform us of what this crew project is all about, so that also rapporteurs and others who are interested in being premiscuous in that work could get an opportunity before it is too late, before closing the investigation, and before deciding on what this should be like in the future. In my first post, I made suggestions to ask the Government to look in particular at Section 11 of the Victim Compensation Act, the one that regulates how much compensation can be provided per. damage case. I have understood that the parties to the government can support the submission of this proposal to the Government for further work, and I am confident that in that case the Minister of Justice will follow up the matter in an appropriate manner and at an appropriate time return to the Stortinget with what is the intention of the proposal. I ask the Council of State to confirm that this is a correct view from my side.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1789	The debate is approaching the end, and there have been many good things said here. Let's hope that next year's reality will be as good as we want it to be. In that case, we've done a good job the whole time. Having said that, I have at least realized that during the process of the budget this year, the feedback from those who have met the committee at the hearing has been a little questioning, a little pending and partly worrying. Perhaps the most worrying thing was what the Police Joint Association came up with, which suggested that there was an amount of 100 million missing. kr +. If that's right – although I assume that the government parties have a different reality of this – 2008 will be as bad as 2004. The 2004 budget agreement – the police director said at the time that we are not being irresponsible, but we are at the frontier – was the result of a budgetary settlement between two present gentlemen in the Chamber, a current and a former Council of State. I personally worry that next year might be at least as tough. At least the signals and the things I understand you see for yourself, don't necessarily mean very well. But now both the Council of State and the head of the Committee have denied that there is cause for concern, so next year it looks good – and nothing is better than that. Then it remains to see whether the political decisions match reality out, or whether it is that the Greatness again – unfortunately, I would have almost said – has its own reality, while the rest of the world does what it wants. Another thing that I could have challenged the Council of State is the extension of my question when it came to alcohol law. I have to say that I think it's going to be easy for the council to hide behind the police council. If this government is concerned about alcohol abuse, if you are concerned about heavy alcohol consumption in the Norwegian population, if you are concerned about long opening hours — why don’t the government do anything about it? If you're worried about it, do you have to hide behind the different peoples and say no, this is to be decided locally? If that's important to you, why don't you do something about it? Or is it so that it's okay to have such an alibi that you can hide behind, so that in every debate you can come and say that we were a little skeptical about this? But if you're so skeptical, why don't you do something about it? I have had the pleasure of debating this more than once with our current Council of State, and what is repeating itself is that it is said that the Progress Party and the Right will release this, and it will be only misery. Then, of course, the answer for the Council of State is quite simple: he has to do something about it. The government must stop hiding behind other elected people. Take responsibility. You have a majority here. You can do what you want, and then I think you should stop making cheap points, like hiding behind others, if you have political opportunities. If necessary, it simply lacks political capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1798	A never-ending collection heat. – In a line-up following one of the main entries, Akhtar Chaudhry raised questions related to the Dixi centres, who work with raped women, and the Centers for Sexually Abuse Men in Oslo and their lack of budget support from the current Oslo City Council. I realized that it was in particular André Oktay Dahl who received a greeting on the way. I think it's refreshing that a representative on the Stortinget from the same party who controls this city, abilities to deal with things that you think are important. It is all the more pleasant to say that the City Council in Oslo does not have a majority. When you came to the city council, you got fixed in these two posts by means of a good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Then I hope it can trace to the follow-up for next year. So I want to say, just to have reported it, that as far as the situation of the settlement councils is concerned, there are some concerns that are still coming to us. In the past, the size has been clear that settlement proceedings are preferable where practicable. Now a new regulation has been sent to the Conciliation Board, and I really hope that the Council of State will look closely at the hearing replies that come there. Many in the conciliation councils today feel frustrated by the working conditions they have, and you simply feel that this is now a down priority as a field of activity. Finally, when we talk in the debate about the prevention of violence and sexual abuse against children, the justice sector cannot work alone. Therefore, the Christian People's Party will address this in a separate interpellation to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. The reason why we're going to do that is that there are only nine of the 106 municipalities that have been surveyed, which have surveyed the extent of violence and sexual assault in their municipality, and only 15 municipalities in this country have an action plan in the same area. It tells me something about the local authorities perhaps need to take some of the pressure that has been put on the justice sector in this area, so that we also get cross-sectoral efforts for the benefit of children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1809	I am very happy for the party's keen commitment to powerful alcohol policy. It gets a little weird, considering that the Progress Party has been exponents to release everything. I also think, on the same lines as the representative Syversen and what he was about now, about the local commitment, about, among other things. violence in close relations, but also how our cities, agglomerations and municipalities should actually be, that we should respectfully report that these important decisions are best taken locally. In this way, as the Council of State, I have always been reluctant to say that we should tighten up like that in this city, or that we should do that and that in relation to local statutes. And I'm standing by. But in fact, I believe it is very important that we, as pre-misuppliers, are central to, for example. Police cases provide an opportunity for local politicians to get in position with regard to the information that I believe is important, for example. Give up. I have to say that I hope that all the representatives of the Communist Party also follow up Jan Arild Ellingsen's call to deliver now in relation to this, because it is important. With regard to the question of VOKT, the Christian People's Party has now also been involved in creating a majority for the budget we have. So within that framework, we have the means to subsidize the scheme, and it's set up revenue for this. I believe that there is still a good room for the VOKT system to work well for the contracting entities that are there. Because it's an important system, I'm standing by. With regard to the temporary measures taken in respect of queues, I and the Government and the representative Dørum are fully in agreement with regard to ambitions. We're at 100 pst. behind the committee’s writing – it should be lacking – without reservation. That's what the majority of the Storting says. It's completely in line with what the Government also thinks. We imagine a gradual degression of the measures that have been taken, in particular increased release and duplication, and that it will come before the reconciliation queue is gone. In fact, I hope that we can already take a first step around New Year's Eve, but I will come back to that. With regard to the question of compensation for victims of violence, I will not oppose the fact that our parties on the Stortinget – the red-green – support the transmission of the proposal from the Right to us, because I have said that I believe that the Government should look at the very question of compensation for victims of violence where there are many siblings and where one loses, among other things. caregiver, and that it may appear unreasonable. We are ready to review this and come back to Stortinget in connection with the revised national budget to see what we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1820	The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1824	Just to follow up on the challenge of the Council of State: it is that the Government, as the Council of State itself has pointed out today, wants to make some changes. One wants to make changes in relation to the liquidation of advanced probation; one wants to make changes in relation to other things. Obviously, there are things about which the government has ambitions. If it's the case that the Council of State is concerned about the alcohol policy being pursued, he has absolutely the same opportunity to do something about it, since he's actually part of a majority government. Or is it that it is opportune to have that opportunity still? And if that's how everything happens locally, the most sensible thing, there's a lot of things we could discuss in principle. But I would like to say that even unwise decisions are made locally, not least when we see that individual municipalities place people in need of care in the bathroom, or in a dining room or in a room. Although the decision is taken locally, it does not necessarily have to be just as sensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1833	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1836	I asked a question to the State Council of Storberget, and the answer that the Council of State has given is clear and unambiguous. In the light of the clear response of the Council of State, on behalf of the Left, I would like to make the proposal that has been put forward – proposal No. 10 – turn into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1841	I will try not to extend the debate further. I would first of all like to thank the Committee for a very good debate, and I would also like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation on the budget and for its comments. In a number of areas, we have been able to work together on key policy areas. It's going on in terms of compensation. I am pleased with the consensus expressed both here and in the comments, on the need for prevention. It's also going on at the rescue services, where we're still facing some challenges. It's very important and very right that we agree on such key questions. In other areas, however, there is real disagreement. There's a real disagreement about history, and there's a real disagreement about the resource situation and its consequences. I also need to remember that trustees have an important task in fighting for their rights, based on the way they experience their work situation. We have to listen. For us as politicians, this is some of the most important signals we can get. But we also have a responsibility to take overall considerations and make overall balances. I would like to say on behalf of the majority that we support the transmission of proposal No. 9, from Elisabeth Aspaker, and is pleased that the matter comes back to the Stortinge in connection with the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1859	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 896]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1875	It is pointed out in the proposal that we have major problems related to reoccurrence crime. The proposers believe that a system of marked more stringent penalties in the case of convictions for the third time will have a more preventive effect on future illegal acts, with further offences having a real impact on those involved. Proposalers also believe, in principle, that repeat crime offences should involve a more severe criminal response, so that offenders repeatedly perceive that there is a more severe response and that those who are early in a criminal career perceive that the repetition of crime will have serious consequences. We believe that such a system will help prevent a gradual sluice into crime. Because when young criminals and those who are early in a criminal career see that there are no consequences to commit crime, and that one can continue to commit the same type of crime without being significantly more punished, it will not seem particularly preventative. Another thing about increasing the punishment by repetition is that the main thing about punishment is that society should be protected. Those exposed to this type of crime must be protected. The fact that the convicted person is released after a short time and can meet the victim in the street reasonably early afterwards will not be particularly positive for the general legal opinion. What is also important to emphasise in this context is that convicted persons who have received longer sentences should also be rehabilitated before that period. Those who pay longer penalties will be given a rehabilitation so that they have the opportunity to get into society and operate in a normal and crime-free way. There must be respect for the law. Respect for society shall be demonstrated. But you also have to show respect for those who gradually refrain from committing criminal acts. I also bring up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1894	The representative Morten Ørsal Johansen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1897	The proposal of the Right implies a desire to have a minimum sentence in the event of a third conviction or more serious criminal offences. The Labour Party points out that, as far as the desire for increased punishment for repeaters is concerned, judges are already able to take this into account in criminal proceedings. When repeating criminal acts, judges have the opportunity to use this as a criminal incrimination. When we discussed the general part of the Penal Code in the previous period in Stortinget in 2005, Section 79 stated that the judge could use side-punishment frames. This provides for the possibility of penalising more stringently than that specified in the individual criminal order in the event of repetition. In the work on the special part of the penal code, which we are now working on here in Stortinget, we will discuss the issues that proposers are going to raise. In line with the Soria Moria Declaration, the Labour Party will work towards the establishment of a return guarantee to facilitate the criminal conviction, inter alia. will have the opportunity to obtain a job and a dwelling after the end of the stay. Hopefully, this will help to reduce relapses and strengthen the chances of the prisoners being law-abiding after an end to sentence. I want to refer to the replication projects in Bergen and the one in Oslo called VIC, which have good numbers in terms of preventing relapse. Next year, the criminal report comes, which is going to look at both apologies and after-sales. I think in this context, the protection of posterity is very important. The constant reintroduction of stricter and stricter penalties, I don't think, is the solution to avoid getting repeaters. We have to help them with rehabilitating, and we also have to help them get an after protection once they have come out. We have the opportunity to do this under the direction of the KrAmi model from Sweden, with which we have a pilot project in Årdal. Many non-governmental organisations are involved in post-mortem protection – we heard that at our hearing. For example, the Red Cross, the Church's Social Service and WayBack are doing this, and have good numbers for post-protection to work. Noise treatment is another thing that needs to be done. Many of those who are repeaters have a drug problem. To get out of the criminal, they have to be treated for what makes them criminals, and that's the rush. I would like to point out when it comes to the minimum punishment for the third crime, that I would rather work for better protection for those who are repeaters. And we have opportunities in the law today to use repetition as a penalty-sharp moment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1914	Today, we have major problems related to repeat crime. It is a serious problem for society when a small number of criminals are behind a large proportion of crime. It creates insecurity in the community, seizes considerable resources from the police and costs both society and those affected, large sums and suffering. The Evening newspaper has had a number of articles in which they have focused on the reoccurrence crime in Oslo and the resource situation in the police. The stories told are frightening, and show that it is high time to find targeted measures to counteract development. It is serious when 87 shoplifters with a known perpetrator were placed in Oslo during the first nine months of the year. What does this do with public confidence in the police and the confidence that society should respond to those who commit criminal acts? And what happens to those people who see that they can repeatedly commit crime without meeting with an adequate response? The police resource situation was thoroughly debated in the previous case, and I see no need to repeat it now, because of course it takes more resources to combat the recurrences as well. However, it is also important to look at what measures need to be taken in addition to the purely resource-based approach, and that is what the Right does in its proposal to introduce minimum penalties in the event of a third conviction. Now it is not primarily shoplifting that we aim to get along with this proposal. The most important thing is that actions that can have serious consequences for other people, such as repeated acts of violence and moral crimes, face clearer reactions. However, even in the case of more serious winning crimes, drug trafficking and drug trafficking, the Right Society considers that there is a legitimate need for protection. A marked increase in the level of penalties in the case of a third conviction could prevent future illegal acts because further offences have a real impact on those involved. Close follow-up and clear responses have been shown to be effective, including: through the work of the VIC project of the police. But here I would like to add that there must be something wrong with the police in Norway, when everything you have to do with extraordinary efforts in important areas, start as a project, become a project – and finally the money is gone a beautiful day. In the case of third-time offences, we believe that imprisonment or other imprisonment should be the general rule. But of course it has to be assessed in relation to the type of crime committed. We are therefore also open to similar arrangements for minor offences, where the fine may be higher, or the third sentence on the same subject. A large proportion of repeat offenders are drug users who commit crime to finance their abuse and who need help to get out of it. That perspective is important to bring with it when talking about repeat crime. At the same time, it is important to stress that their criminal offences are not less punishable than those committed by non-drug addicts. Criminals who have been rid of their drug problem are also likely to cut off the criminal track to a large extent. Providing a good rehabilitation service to these is therefore a key issue. Whether the perpetrator has a drug problem or not, it is absolutely essential that the ransom has a content that helps the offender to have the opportunity to put the criminal life behind him. Finally, I would like to point out that it is interesting to see that the government parties do not support the proposal for increased punishment for repeaters, bearing in mind that the judges already have the opportunity to take this into account in the criminal investigation. In 2003, they voted against the amendment of the law promoted by the Bondevik II Government on a general law enforcement rule by repetition. Is it true that today's government parties have changed their mind about this provision since it was in Stortinget last? I then take up the proposal from the Right in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1937	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1940	I take the floor just to say that the Left is committed to what was promoted by the Left in connection with the Bondevik II government. It's absolutely true that then there were some other compositions in Stortinget. It's okay to have different political opinions. Our opinion is that the tightening up that then took place against repeaters in the fields of violence, profit and morality should cover this and encroach on repeat crime in the manner necessary. As far as minimum penalties are concerned, the Left agreed with what was said by the Bondevik II government, when the Stortinges dealt with the general part of the proposal for new criminal law – we will get the special part later. In this context, the number of minimum penalties was drastically reduced. It was reduced to six, related to values such as attacks on sexual integrity, assaults on lives and attacks on the state of law. The left remains firmly attached to the use of the minimum penalty, with clear anchoring in these central values. So on that basis, we do not support the proposal for a representative that has been tabled, nor the proposal that has been presented by the Progress Party, which, at the last reading, had a definitely very different view from what I have now presented and which is the view of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1947	Just a short general comment. If you look carefully at this proposal, it can really look like more people have adjusted their operational policies to a certain extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1952	I am pleased that the Committee shares the ministry's view that the need to tighten up penalties in the event of repeated offences needs to be addressed differently from the use of minimum penalties. I'll be very short. I just want to say to everyone first that I believe that we had a very broad review of the use of minimum penalties after we dealt with the general part of the penal code in the previous magnificence period – which the representative Dørum also had in mind – where, in other words, minimum penalties are reduced from 39 to six, so that it remains in the case of very serious criminal offences. What everyone agreed on was that it was very little appropriate in the broad crime scene to operate with minimum penalties – it had unfortunate results – as to all the over-measures of the then Right Government Party, since, therefore, such an important fundamental issue was addressed by making a general part of the penal code, also supported, so recently. I just have to remember that, all the time Right representatives out in public space often accuse everyone else of almost a kind of jump and jump policy. For what is this? In my opinion, the previous government did a very good job by being principled in this matter. I'm going to hold on to it and not do as the Right now does, in my opinion: you jump because you see that the evening writes about what you're doing, as the representative Elisabeth Aspacer was in. I have to say that I agree with the Right two years ago when you dealt with this fundamental question, and believe that you actually had many good points. The second is: a little later today we are going to deal with an interview from the representative André Oktay Dahl where it says: ‘The focus on how to provide drug-free treatment, to ensure that they receive a job or training offer and a place to live, is essential to overcome the problem of recurrence.’ So there's no mention of repeater punishment. This is jump and jump. You have to decide. I am absolutely convinced that the representative André Oktay Dahl has a great score in his interview, to which I will come back. I think the challenge of being able to do something about the recurring problem lies there. But then the Right has to decide how to attack it. The last thing I would like to point out is that we already in existing criminal law have significant instruments to be able to carry out criminal atrocities at individual level when facing recurrent crime, among other things. by using general side sanctions in the new penal code, such as the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Party while they were in government – we have the new §79 and other instruments to increase the level of penalties. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee chooses to have such an opinion as you have, on this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1974	The post that the state council held here may not have come unexpectedly. I think it's pretty important that you look around and experience how crime development is, with the large amount of crime committed by a small number, and we don't seem to have the means to put an end to it today. That is the background to the proposal that has now been put forward by the Right. I think it's quite possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, that we can think of something about the need for a minimum penalty for a third time conviction, a detention exercise that allows you to get involved with the person who actually committed the crime, and then to provide for a content in the detention that is such that you get people put out of jail for a crime-free life. So here's two thoughts that have to be thought about at the same time. One is to get a reaction that is so clear that you get a clear message from society that this is totally unacceptable. The other is to provide help to those individuals who actually need guidance, health follow-up, russian program or whatever it may be, to get out of the criminal life they live. There is a lot of mess here, and we all have a big responsibility to help ensure that the number of repeaters in Norwegian prisons is reduced in the future than it has been at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e1987	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 901]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e2008	Without volunteers, the repatriation of prisoners in Norwegian prisons can be followed by the shooting of a white stick. Last summer I stayed at the bottom of a week in Hassel prison in Buskerud. Although some people probably think that many politicians should be stuck in for broken promises, my background was that I would get a close look at parts of Norwegian criminal care. Hassel prison is not representative. It is intended to be a kind of last trip for particularly motivated prisoners with drug problems that will soon be released. At the same time, the institution is doing a great deal of good work to ensure that prisoners are held accountable, which is the basic prerequisite for success after release. The intention of our Penal Code is to phase out gradually into normal society. That's a good idea. But my experience after two years in the Justice Committee is that in practice we almost expect more from people who come out of prison than we expect from well-established people with good social networks and an orderly life. And we can't really be so very surprised that the rate of relapse is sky high, when we see how parts of the so-called repatriation to society happen in practice. The image of an inmate with two plastic bags in his hands, zero in the account, debt problems, broken family ties, combined drug problems/psychiatric problems, and no follow-up after end of settlement is not just an image on a single example, but on several. We have received many examples of how prisoners describe a situation in which responsibility is removed from prison, and then some years later – after years of locking and beating – all of a sudden all of a sudden must be assumed. I have also experienced prisoners who are in contact with something as simple as shopping goods in a store, simply clicking, as the situation itself should relate to so-called normal people in a normal situation becomes too much. For many, the real punishment begins after atonement. Once you've committed crime, you have to get your punishment, so that society has its borders. The biggest mistake is to make poor people who commit crime. You'll never be held responsible or rehabilitated for a person who takes the role of sacrifice and is not open to change. In the context of the so-called children’s hearing in the laying room in November, an event was held afterwards, in which representatives of the project ‘Children in the world next door’ presented their proposal to better care for victims of abuse, but there met both victims of rape and offenders with the same starting point, on the basis of the individual experiences they had. He who stood up as an attacker said it all clearly: When he got into prison, he was held up, and for the first time he got a claim, he got a follow-up and was forced to make a settlement with himself. It shows that in some places you can actually also make demands for prisoners. He was not dictated with, as he had been before, but was held responsible and required to become a full-fledged person. Obviously, you can't treat people like animals if you want them to come out as human beings. Several prisoners have motivation — at least for a while — to change. At the same time, as said, most prisoners perceive that the greatest punishment awaits their release. I tend – a little bit pointed – to say that I think maybe it's random that I'm a lawyer and a big-time politician, and not a criminal. I thank a stable family for that, which has backed me up. I think it might also apply to others in this room who come from more or less well-furnished homes. We all depend on a combination of a safe place to live, social networks and work and family so that we're at the height. When none of these assumptions are in place when they come out after the end of settlement, it may not be so strange that many go back to what they're good at, namely, rushing and doing new criminal acts. In this phase, non-governmental organisations are playing, such as: Red Cross, the Church's City Mission and others, an incredibly important role, not least because they have with people who have a practical experience from the shadow side of life. Many non-governmental organisations do a great job for this group. They have a high level of competence, credibility, and not least the trust of the users, which we in the Right believe is absolutely essential for the success of these. I would venture to make the claim that without a real commitment to the voluntary organisations, one can really forget the entire return guarantee. And by bet, I mean not just money support, but that you don't look at volunteers as a never so little supplement, but as absolutely necessary. Then you have to give these trust and responsibility, rather than believe that government and public responsibility are the only thing that can bring about. Each crown given to these is probably more efficient than one penny into the big swallow, and is an investment in a person's getting settled in his life and not committing new crime. My question is therefore what role the Council of State believes the voluntary organisations should play in realising the return guarantee. I'm going to elaborate on it, related to the practical challenges this poses. I hope the Council of State can say something about how to work with these. Some municipalities have some work that works satisfactorily, but there is a great lack of coordination. Asker municipality has to do with me, for example. pointed out that cooperation is a prerequisite for not continuing the practice of release of prisoners sooner than planned, without the necessary warning, in order to make the organisation more difficult. A return guarantee that gives municipalities greater responsibility for housing offers will also require greater government efforts in the organisation of municipal rental housing. Many municipalities are struggling with large cows today, and it is difficult to see that these can be cut much without state aid when they arrive. NAV provides assistance to maintain accommodation under short-term shelter. On the other hand, at longer payoffs, this is not a compulsory benefit. This is where judgement is exercised, and there is a major challenge in realising the return guarantee. Some non-governmental organisations also believe that they should be more closely involved in advice and be used to develop rather than the responsibility of the State. If the released person is uninhabited, the NAV is responsible for this, in the worst case in the form of a hostel. For municipalities in Akershus, this is quite challenging, as Oslo Municipality has its challenges and, understandably, does not accept users of its services to a large extent. The qualification programme with the corresponding social welfare scheme is to be added to the NAV office, but I am very much in doubt whether NAV is equipped for this task, and allow me to ask for any comment from the Council of State on it. In conclusion, I would like to give the Council of State feedback on the fact that many prison inmates and staff in Norwegian prisons feel that the situation is a form of plan chaos, that different actions and projects for individuals are not coordinated, and that up to several individual plans for each and every one of them that are not coordinated, are in reality less likely to be rehabilitated. Then I think I have helped to cut down the debate time, considering the evening meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e2042	Let me first of all thank the representative André Oktay Dahl for a particularly important interpellation. The questions raised in this interpellation are, in my opinion, much more the answer to how we will meet, among other things. repeaters, other than, for example: moving into a debate around the minimum penalty. I also see the intervention of the representative now showing with all clarity – at least on the carrier's argument – how useless, really, the debate on minimum penalties is on this issue. That is the content we must discuss, not where the criminal species should start. In the fight against crime that the Government wants to lead, we all need good forces, and we are already on many fronts well in the laborious work it is to trick those released back into society. As you know, we've taken a power cap to bring the queue down to prison; it's actually reduced from approx. 2 700 judges until now approx. 1 000. Now we want to focus more attention on the queue out of prison, and in this way this interpellation is a very good basis for the work to be done. I also hear from the interpellant that we largely agree on instruments. We also agree on the role of volunteers. However, we note that before the notification of criminal law is due, we are on the way at the same time. During the year, we have been able to provide educational services in all the country’s prisons. I believe that this is essential. It is in a way ‘back to basics’, to say it in English, for the prisoners, and perhaps also a first step away from all temporary projects and programmes — a place where one actually comes back with an opportunity to resume lost education, which may be useful for getting a future effect. Recently, it was also clear that we can hire a total of 20 new housing consultants to assist the prisoners with their release. This measure alone is worth 8 million. kr. We also think it was a great honour that TOG, an action against repeaters in Oslo prison, received the housing price for 2007 for their efforts to obtain housing for the release. At all, the government wants to do more of that that helps. As the majority of the population, we are concerned with the rehabilitating content of the sentence — which has also been highlighted in previous debates. We want a punishment that works. That is why we are also pleased that the adoption today will include more use of electronic control, community sanctions and issues relating to pro-mille programmes. The use of conflict councils and other alternative responses is also important, which could give greater chances of bringing offenders back to society. There is reason to point out that there is a significant difference in relapse rates between the alternative responses, among others. Social Penalty, and Prison Penalty. Although the groups are not fully comparable, it is gratifying to see studies showing relapses down to 21 pst. for social penalties and a very high percentage of implementation. It's a pleasure. This means that we are already doing well what is going to become part of the content of the return guarantee we want to describe in the Criminal Welfare Notice. The aim is just to reduce the number of recurrences. The elements to be included in such a guarantee in addition to housing, drug treatment and education have not yet been defined. But probably several of the measures mentioned interpellantly will be part of the content and will create a wide consensus about this. There are a number of those who have been the subject of many such debates in the 2004 Fafo study, which just points to the challenges we face: 70 pst. unemployment among prisoners, 40 pst. has primary education, 35 pst. were homeless when they were inserted, and the percentage was higher when they were released. About 40 pst. is below the poverty line, two thirds of prisoners have experienced an increase of one or more more serious problems, 30 pst. have been in contact with child protection before the age of 16, and at least 60 pst. have extensive drug problems — alcohol and drugs. Half have one or more chronic diseases, and they are much higher than the population otherwise plagued with mental problems. When we know at the same time that the prisoner population is largely influenced by people who are in a relatively short position, we know that there are very big challenges here. This is also the background to the fact that in three prisons, we have now, in cooperation with the health services, set up detention centres, both in Stavanger, in Bodø and on Ravneberget. In 2008, we will launch the KRAmi projects in Stavanger and Tenk Security in Årdal, which can also give us important input on this issue, and important input into the Crime Prevention Communication. The question of the interpellation concerns the volunteers and their role in this work. My answer is very simple: you should, and they should, play a very important role. That's what we have to earn. That is why we have been in contact with all the large voluntary organisations who are already involved in the release work, both with the message and with the guarantee, by giving everyone the opportunity to attend meetings and make written contributions to the new shopping message. There has been a very open process, known to many in the Judicial Committee, with Internet pages, reference classes, thought towers and working groups. This is a recording that we greatly appreciate and value highly, and it will be an important foundation for the message. The voluntary organisations with church membership have so far been in majority. But other non-profit institutions, with Red Cross at their head, have also participated significantly, among others. with his visitor's service. In recent years, we have also received the friendly support organisation WayBack and the Fangers Family Association, which plays an immense role. These have been strengthened, including: with the help of the Christian People's Party during the last year's budgetary conciliation. These are making a major and important effort in the repatriation process. From 2002 to 2006, the Ministry of Justice granted more than 16 million. to the work of volunteers in criminal matters. In 2007, the sum will be approximately 4.5 million. kr. This says something about the extent to which we evaluate the efforts of volunteers in both networks and other actions. I think we have a way left to go. At the same time, volunteers have ideas and plans that go far beyond what we have the opportunity to support. Our interaction with them will, after all, not be any less in the time to come. The current voluntary organisations have different levels of coverage with their offer. It's a challenge for us. Some are nationwide. It does not mean, however, that they offer anywhere where the criminal services have units. It will also be highly variable what volunteers can contribute. But it's no less important for that reason. In my view, network provision is the most important field for voluntary organisations to contribute to the repatriation work. It is a well-known matter that it is on weekends and in the afternoon the battle is recently released, whether they are drug users or not. At these times, the public is not available. If the main elements of the release guarantee of work, housing and schoolwork are to function, a glue is needed in the system. This glue may and should be part of the voluntary organisations. This concerns everything from sporting activities to cinema and other cultural activities and home invitations, but also different mentoring and family contact, as we do. has been visited by the Fangers Retirement Association. In addition to networks, several of the voluntary organisations already offer housing and work in connection with both parole and §12 and §16 soning, drug treatment and home reconciliation. There are wide variations in the quality of these offers, and they need different financial support. In some cases, criminal services buy places from non-profit organisations, in line with the fact that we buy places in public treatment institutions. We will consider which of these offers can be used especially in the return guarantee. Here too, voluntary organisations can complement the public with good offers. The main strength of voluntary organisations is that they are voluntary and are based on human and financial contributions from members. They also provide examples of social networks that are good to have when things are bad. They can come to and can mean something where the public can do little. In this sense, they will mean a significant addition to what we in the public sector can contribute. I would like to end by saying that we also believe that volunteering has a lot to do with having contact with, among other things. prisoners. Hassel prison is thus a good example, as the interpellant himself pointed out, of how prisoners can actually participate in society outside prison, whether it is pensioners' associations that are to organize Christmas parties — it's happening at Hassel — or it's inmates of Hassel who act as judges during football matches for younger boys. It's a pretty amazing illustration of what kind of resource we actually have in the prisoners, and that it goes both ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e2078	I thank you for your answer. I would like to say to the question of the minimum penalty, which we dealt with instead, that the representative Aspaker presented our view there. I also show that it was stressed that there are two thoughts at the same time in our proposal, and that rehabilitation and minimum penalties are not necessarily disproportionate to each other. In my opening post, I underlined the need for coordination. We are already seeing that there are major challenges in this area in terms of the content of the social penalty and the provision of care – there are a number of cooks and a lot of silver, and you do not follow the individual in an adequate way. In the municipalities I have been in contact with, there is a great deal of uncertainty – whether it is not as good as no commitment – about the introduction of a return guarantee, because you are not involved in the work, or at all know that it is going on. I think that's going to be a big challenge when we get this done. We have seen it in the SLT, the coordination of local crime prevention measures, and we see it on the police council, that the municipalities are partly if not relaxed, so at least very little. This is the whole assumption that we're going to get a real reversal. I then asked for feedback on how the contact with the municipalities must be in order to achieve this at all, not least how the municipalities should also include the volunteers in the cooperation that needs to be done. How much is there of established cooperation structures between departments, municipalities and volunteers to discuss common issues to be addressed by different agencies? I also ask questions about what cross-ministerial work is going on, which is being done in order to coordinate all the stages that need to be assumed to cooperate in order to achieve this. I – and Right – fear that if you don’t get real cooperation, this will be a paper return guarantee that leads to nothing more than getting a plan that is not followed up by the individual municipality, the individual social curator, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e2089	When the interpellant asks about the contact with the municipalities and the voluntary organisations, I actually believe that much of what the previous government did, and what we have carried on with it, is good. But you will always say that there is a need for further contact. The recording was replayed, among other things. housing and residence of prisoners, where there was – and is – extensive contact with the Municipalities’ Central Association, and where general agreement has been reached, is just an example of municipalities reporting much more than before on the issue of rehabilitation. But it is a challenge for us – not only in terms of municipalities, but also in terms of other parts of the public at government level – to achieve sufficient coordination. My wish and hope is that we should get as far as we can in connection with the criminal services messages in this field, where we need to merge more. In terms of contact with the municipalities and the criminal services where we operate, i.e. where we have established new prisons, and where we have established prisons, I must pay great tribute to the host municipalities. It is quite amazing to see how you contribute, including the county councils, especially in the area of health and education. We have, as we know, established educational services in all prisons, and it is handled by local secondary schools. That contact has been very good. I also believe that it helps us get a part of the community and a part of normality into prison, which is actually very useful to have when we think about rehabilitation. We certainly also have a way to go in this area. The crash message about the criminal services will probably be a lot about just this contact. In the process we have – which I was in for – in preparing the Storing Message, I think we'll be looking for a longer time for a more open process than the one we've had around it. It may be possible to go to the criminal justice website and see — there is an overview of what kind of process it is. There are working groups, think towers, websites with opportunities for both volunteers, individuals and organisations to participate and make recordings. They're invited, so we have a broader basis for writing big messages than we traditionally have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e2098	It is great that we can use a little of this day to discuss just the return guarantee. Now, the return guarantee, as is also known, will be mentioned in an own chapter of the criminal justice message that comes. In fact, the starting point for us to sit down to make a return guarantee is that one of two is back in prison in five years. We have to break this vicious circle of repeaters in prison, and we have to catch up with first-time criminals, so they don't get a criminal racetrack. And then finally, we're going to introduce. electronic housing and other options, such as: the use of community sanctions. Return guarantee means return and integration into society. It's true, as I said, that those who are for a living, but also those who are for abstinence, or who have psychiatric problems. I want to say a little bit about the trial project that we're starting in Sogn, KRAMI. Already today, Årdal has a group of responsibilities that create individual plans for those who are in need of compensation or treatment. Local authorities involved in the project must choose a responsible person, a mentor, who will contact those who are at the earliest possible time for reconciliation or treatment. The mentor, for example. as an environmental therapist, they should help deploy jobs, housing and a new network. These three knags are going to go again. The first is work. In Inner Sogn Asvo in Årdal, one has most degrees, from job training to permanent job placements. The next point is housing. Many people need furnished housing with staff. It may be a community or abstinence, such as: in the Tangavegen in Årdal. Opening hours are such that you can also meet outside the office hours, so that you can be happy. The last key is networks and leisure activities. Here they come voluntarily. Without voluntary support, the entire project will stop. But e.g. In Ardal, where the project I refer to is located, there are many voluntary teams and many offers – including low-threshold services, which are a good example. I agree with the representative Dahl when he points out how important the volunteers are here too. But I would say that the most important work is done in the form of prevention. There is hardly a built around the country without many teams and organizations working with children, young people and adults. In criminal matters, we also have many non-profit organisations, for example. The Red Cross, with its visitor service, and many organisations with a church audience. Orga- nations like WayBack and Fanger's relatives also make a great effort when it comes to repatriation. There is the greatest danger of relapse on the first night of freedom; the next bend comes the first holy in freedom. At these times, the public is not available. Here they play a key role as volunteers in the future return guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e2124	I'll give tribute to the interpellant to address a very important topic. As a representative of the party that is probably the most desperate in terms of punishment in this country, I also think this is an important dimension to take along, because the most delicate point is probably the last stage of the settlement, when you're going back, when you have expectations, when you have ambitions and certainly want to never come back when you go out of prison. Then the key is the quality of the tool we have to help people out and back again. That the volunteers here are a key is raised above any doubt. I think you can actually go so far as to say that the volunteer organizations may have a greater degree of humanity in their approach, precisely on the basis that they are doing this as a voluntary contribution to help others. Those who are employed have a salary and job description of the job they are going to do, but for the volunteers there is a personal drive, a personal ambition to help others who are the big one. That's a pretty big difference. I think you might not be good enough to give honey to those who actually use their leisure time to set up themselves, along with their family, to be a tool for others – without payment, but simply because you want to be a fellow human being. In that way, I don't think we can give them enough honey. If you want to get people back to society again, it's of course about how much you care. We may have fine regulations, we may have fine regulations, but there must be some people who take thanks, along with those who are going out, leading them back to society, and there – as many have been before – when the difficult time comes. If we don't have a criminal eternity machine. And if we do, we hit ourselves. We hit those who commit crime, and we hit those who are victims of crime, in a way that we all have the duty to ensure that we avoid. So if we don't, we're just going to do post-protection. The party of progress is often accused of being subject only to punishment. It is my reverential claim that it is of course completely wrong. I am proud to have done things in cooperation with the previous government, among others. in the case of the family violence project in Westfold and the first allocation received by WayBack. It is clear that we, who want punishment to be reasonably tough on the worst crime, also see the benefit of the fact that criminal acts of all people should preferably be a one-off case. In this way we have achieved two things. He has received his punishment, and has learned from it and comes back to society again. I don't think you can underestimate the volunteers. The challenge for the various government councils and departments responsible is to merge all of this. I think there's a lot of nice individuals, a lot of good organisations, a lot of great public employees, but the challenge is to make this work as a tool for those who need help. If we don't get good at individual details, but we don't get good at the whole thing. It seems to me to be gross, and it will reduce the possibility of assisting those who need help, in a good and most appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e2139	All the honor of André Oktay Dahl, who takes up this interpellation. It's so good that if he hadn't taken it up, the undersigned should have done it, because here we have an area where I believe that both the Right and the Christian People's Party have long traditions of having a common view of the volunteer's efforts in society – the civil sector. But I was relatively encouraged by the answers of the Council of State and the cooperation he emphasizes, with the volunteers in the field of criminal justice. There is something strange in this that many prisoners experience that the stay in prison is characterized by structure, it is characterized by fixed routines that can be related to most people — yes, it may feel a bit safe, just plain — but when you get out, you often stand on a bare hill, the structures are lacking, and it is very easy to get back to an environment and a lifestyle that unfortunately often leads to a return to prison. Now, the Council of State placed great emphasis on cooperating well with the voluntary organisations in the work that is now being done on the criminal service notification. I really hope that this will also lead to the voluntary being given a central place, not only as grant beneficiaries after an entry in the budget, but also as real actors, not least in connection with the return guarantee that the Council of State has called for. I have seen for myself that the Minister of Justice has been satisfied when he was at Frtex, and I have seen the cooperation with the Salvation Army regarding §12-soning and also the work they are doing there to provide work and education. Work, education and drug treatment are key words in achieving a successful return. What I think may be the biggest challenge is how municipalities deal with those who are to be returned, and their responsibility in this way. Here you have good examples, but unfortunately you also have many bad examples – which the interpellant had to say – that municipalities simply do not take responsibility at all, but almost sit and wait for you to get a new sentence and a new settlement, and then the problem is a little out of the world. I hope that that very relationship is particularly emphasised in the criminal service message we are receiving, and that the efforts of volunteers in that situation can also be evaluated and used for the benefit of those who are going to work in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e2150	I also want to join in praise both for the inter-pellant and for the Council of State. I want to link to a post I made earlier today, where I commented on the long lines in the fight to rescue people from violence in close relationships. Getting results in the area we're talking about now is a tough and systematic effort, which requires a lot. The fact that there's a big message that lights it up is good. Life has taught me that one of the most demanding in politics is to reconcile the macro- or holistic perspective of politics with the micro- or everyday perspective of politics. And life has taught me that it takes raw strength and almost tough endurance, beyond most, to achieve it. Let me illustrate: it has been a long time since general agreements were concluded in this country, for example: with what was Aetat, before it became NAV – to make sure that everyone who came out of prison should be sure to get a job. We've had agreements in a number of our big cities, for example. between social offices, social services and prisons to ensure good and fair living conditions and housing for those coming out. Of course, the best of all examples has been that the school has been in prison and made a real offer. To illustrate the challenge: While the Council of State can rightly be proud that this is a set-up that is located and works, we are in the situation that, as a member of the Education Committee, we are now struggling to get clear and binding answers that the school offer will continue to exist in drug treatment institutions where it is to be held. There appears to be a system clamping away from most of the specialist healthcare service, which is now the name of the care centre, and of the municipality. We are in the situation that in the professional committee I sit on, we clearly say that we assume that the school offer is ensured in drug treatment institutions that have it. But we haven't yet received a clear enough answer that that's what's actually going to happen. This is not meant to be any other kind of comment than to say it to the Council of State, because it tells you how much you have to work to make sure that things work. I am convinced that both the inter-pellant and the State Council of Storberget believe, just as the undersigned and everyone else who has spoken here, that we should try to get to this cooperation. To give some examples to illustrate what has been said about the volunteer: There are said to be good things from both the inter-pellant and the state council on WayBack, the Fangers Family and Visitor Service Association, but let me use the BARM Centre at Hamar, which is run by the Church's Social Service with a small number of employees and a large number of competent volunteers. BARM is responsible for housing, work and rehabilitation. The BARM Center is almost like a NAV. There is a system of contact between the public, reading prison, and all other parts of the public – now called NAV – where you have to meet the state apparatus with the municipality's apparatus, and other conditions where the most competent people can become a loser for a fellow human being. I understand the State Council Storberget's comment on housing consultants, which is, of course, a practical act in such a context. But getting these practical steps systematically, almost individual for individual, is called in social care to have an individual plan. Making it work is the key to everything we're talking about. Personally, I think this is very much about how management contributes to this cooperation. It is very much about the competence of employees. There is no doubt that in large parts of our municipal apparatus, we have newly educated social workers who may have a good theoretical education, but who do not have sufficient experience to meet what has been raised in this interpellation. Strengthening the competence of those who work on this at municipal level – let it be one of the themes to get this guarantee that life is OK – is absolutely crucial. And to connect it all to: if you're drunk and for example. It is essential that you get out of the way, for example. a §12 institution experiences that you will be able to keep the offers you had in prison. It must not be that in prison you get something that is very good, while in the drug treatment unit you do not get it. This is so demanding. And then it has to be that when you get out again, you're like a rabid person who's trying to behave well, don't meet the agents at the Oslo Center who act in a way like the council and I heard about at a meeting at the Restaurant Blue, arranged by the = Oslo, a week and a half ago, and that's not the way it should be. All of these things are about how to try to correct something that's wrong, and I feel that this interpellation debate we have now, is about helping each other to put as many of these points ahead of the open pulpit in the Stortinget. It's also the point of my post here today – to contribute to the table so that we work toughly and systematically to give people a real chance, and that life's practitioners who can do this will have a chance to tie the bands that are needed to make people feel that someone is taking you by the hand, not just sending you off a farm with a plastic bag.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e2171	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately over. The President will propose that the Stortinget debate complete case No. 11 before we pause – and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e2174	I'll be very short. I think the last two posts show the community of values that exist between the opposition parties in this field, but at the same time I also record the open tone of the Council of State. In relation to the Ministry, some of the voluntary organisations you talk about have not felt the very open tone, but the Council of State can do something about the work done with the notification and with the return guarantee in the future. It is important to stress that this can not only be adopted, it requires work every day. So a reflection in the end: what is a paradox is that in the world's richest country, where public budgets increase every year, one or other little million of these organizations are in a terrible state. It's a paradox as to how much they get out of the few heads they're talking about, which is actually a patchwork of the public systems that don't work, where you run firefighting. You have a huge number of billions of public agencies and other systems that don't work, and you have a few million to make sure that this is done. Then it is a paradox that, in any budgetary context, such as this. Dixi, who was mentioned here instead – it is not a voluntary organisation – then has to fight to the degrees of the small millions, while billions fly in relation to public budgets and increased public responsibility. There is a paradox that I expect the rest of the opposition to agree with, and I hope the Council of State will also take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e2184	I'm going to be very short, and I want to say that the recordings that have now come in relation to the return guarantee and the role of volunteers, we're going to take with us. We don't see it this way in the department, and we've actually heard very little about it, that the volunteer organizations don't have good enough dialogue with the government. But we're going to take that seriously, if that's how you think you want more contact. It's about our whole sector. I have chosen to strengthen contact in many areas, including: through visits, but also on contact surfaces in the ministry. But here we probably have opportunities to get better, and we all serve to have the best possible contact. There is no disagreement about the need for, at least. It is also the case that the Storting makes important steps today for, among other things. to strengthen volunteering, and that is to follow up much of what the Government says in its volunteering message, and what we do in relation to the organisations active in the rescue services. I believe that the representative André Oktay Dahl has a point when he describes how problematic it is on many occasions to get public resources out of the volunteer organizations, and that we have a way to go there. At the same time, a broad majority in the United Kingdom has agreed that voluntary action should also be strengthened in criminal matters and, in fact, have done so. So when the representative Dørum draws up the Church's Social Service at the Hamar, the BARM Center, it's a project that's been given quite considerable increased support, for good reason. At the same time, we have some challenges in relation to this, which I was in my post, but which I want to stress. We need to have measures that don't just depend on that we have volunteers. Sometimes you don't have the representation of different organizations, and then we have to have alternatives, so we don't totally depend on that. What I would also like to stress when we talk about volunteering is that it is the volunteer seam that has to premise for its participation, so that volunteering does not become a kind of project operator into the public. If not, volunteering loses something of its peculiarity and much of its effect, in fact. Those in and out of the zone reap a great deal of volunteering, precisely because it has a structure and a framework that stands on its own, and in that way does not depend on public money or signals to drive the idea of volunteering – a balance that is not in the way of strengthening cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-03.ana.ud13e2197	Then there's case no. 11 finished, and The Storting takes a break until the evening's meeting starts, at 1:00 p.m. 6:00 p.m.
