ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e73	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that three replies be given to the comments of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e82	There is a clear need in many sectors of society to ensure up-to-date and accurate information on property. The purpose of this law, together with other laws, is to ensure this in all cases where necessary, for example: in the case of property transactions, in the management of properties and in the planning and disposal of any physical environment. This means, among other things: that through a consistent and reliable register, safe access to all essential property information is ensured. In 1980, the law of division entered into force. Then we got a law that gave us a common system for measuring, marking and registering property for the whole country. Through Ot.prp. No 70 for 2004-2005 on the Law on Property Registration proposed, among others, the Bondevik II Government. that measuring operations could be carried out as a private service, which meant that the owner himself had to order a surveyor company to carry out the survey. The surveyor company would then submit a claim to register the survey with the municipality. This is what the majority agreed to. The minority consisted of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The law, as adopted, meant that a part of the property registration is divided into two, one part of a service and one part of a government. The service part, the measuring shop itself, included marking and measuring borders and everything else that was needed to establish requirements for registration, which is described in the law as matriculation. Now it is the case that only the part of the law amendment which included the use of a new register to replace the landowner, address and building register and digital property map has been implemented. This means that otherwise the law change is not practically arranged by regulation, and then not put into practice. The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre mainly supported the proposal for a new law on property registration, but opposed the distinction between government and service production. So we were to continue the measurement business as a public task, and not separate this from the registration. As rapporteur of the case, I would have liked to try to reconcile the views of the minority and majority at the time, but as a result of the treatment for approx. 2 years ago and the treatment we've now had, two completely different views came up on the part of the law change I've already explained, and a common position would be far beyond the art of the possible. So here we'll probably have to agree to disagree. I will briefly explain the views of the current majority, and then I expect representatives from the minority to justify their views. Let me just first say that that's not what the opposition writes in its comments, that we "now, for ideological reasons, will reverse the previous decision at this point." If that was the case, it would have to be for the same reasons that the minority will maintain its position. We – Arbeiderparteit, SV and Zenterpartiet – want to change the law because we believe it is important that the property register is complete and reliable. We believe that a prerequisite for this is for municipalities to maintain and further develop the necessary competences in the field of both mapping and measurement and, of course, in the area of record keeping. Sharing this area will, in our view, make this interaction more difficult. Because I think it is that the register should have the necessary quality, it will require those who handle it to have both practical and theoretical knowledge in the field of surveyors. We therefore believe that it should be the responsibility of the municipality to ensure the measurement business and property registration. It will also ensure legal certainty for the individual. Municipalities are obliged to carry out all the tasks set out for the purpose of measuring and recording. This is also in accordance with the applicable law. Then it is also such that according to § 5a of the law, the municipality can, by agreement, entrust to others to carry out measurement operations on behalf of the municipality without depriving the municipalities of the duties and responsibilities of the municipality. The right to lodge a complaint is complicated in this area, but by keeping both measurement and registration within the area of responsibility of the municipality, the person who wants to complain can file a complaint against the municipality, without even having to find out where any fault might be located.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e116	It could be tempting in a matter like this to quote a former Swedish business minister, Björn Rosengren. I'll avoid it in this case. The rapporteur has, of course, given the reasons for the majority's position. The most important thing he stressed was that here we're going to agree to disagree. I was unable to record a single argument for the amendment proposed today, other than that this has ideological overtones, which I am quite sure will sound beautiful, like an overture, in LO's headquarters. I'm pretty sure part of the crowd there will rejoice that you will certainly also get returned from the red-green majority. The Government proposes to continue all aspects of measuring business as a public authority task. I have not been able to see it justified at all. It was a pragmatic change of laws that was carried out under the previous government. This time the government has not even taken the break in sending the bill to the hearing of those who are, and are, affected by it. It is likely to be made aware that many municipalities are small and will have problems dealing with the law decision. This is done at the same time as you know that the service part has no element of decision in itself. So the rapporteur says, and it says in the majority comment, that it is important that property registration is complete and reliable. No one in Stortinget disagrees with that. But does publishing these tasks mean that we have a guarantee that we do not want if the service is done privately? No, of course not. So it is emphasised that it is important that municipalities maintain the necessary skills in this area. I guess no one disagrees with that, if only the municipalities had been able to have competence in this area. But the municipalities can only solve the statutory tasks satisfactorily, well enough, when they prioritise clean and cutting measurement tasks, for which we have enough engineers in this country. Under municipal government and in the municipalities that are set to be a party to this work, we have seen a violent aftermath in this area. There are even three years of backlogs to record measuring transactions in a number that have passed a total of 15 000. I just think that there is something ‘Davidsensk’ about it when you start repairing things that are actually about to work. That's why it's a shame to report no other reason than the purely ideological arguments. As is also stated in the majority voting, legal certainty should be ensured in the implementation of these tasks. No one disagrees. It's primarily an authority task to keep track of. This task has also not been done well enough under the municipal vignette. Then I wonder: For whom is it that you want this amendment of the law? It may hardly be for the benefit of users, who are totally dependent on the functioning of this system in the measurement sector. Not only with reference to Björn Rosengren – but I don't know if there are any other countries in Europe that have stepped back in this way. It might have been interesting to hear what good examples you are able to find out about people and countries who are doing this in a hundred percent public domain.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e135	The Christian People's Party is in this position among the minority who will maintain the legislative wording of 17 June 2005 on the distinction between government and service production. Already then today’s government parties announced that they would change this law if there was a government change at the 2005 elections. The legislative change is also part of Soria Moria's political platform. Odelstinget rarely receives a change in law that is as ideologically justified as this in Section 5(a). In practice, the bill removes the distinction between management and service production in the case of property registration. Such a distinction was recommended unanimously by the Law Committee before the Property Register Act of NOU 1999:1. The government's proposals have not been consulted, which has led the Committee to receive opinions expressing great concern about the competence of municipalities to perform good metering services. We have many small municipalities here that need to find new cooperation solutions. In the Christian People's Party, we have a pragmatic relationship with what should be a public task or not. The measurement of properties can hardly be said to be a strongly required public liability. But it is important that we have public registers of properties and changes in property boundaries. We therefore believe that the 2005 Act has a clear borderline between the exercise of authority and the production of services, and that the important tasks of authority are well taken care of. On this basis, the Christian People's Party will vote against Section 5(a) of the setting of new law, but we support the other changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e146	It's in the municipalities people live, we often hear. The centre party is concerned that people around the country will notice that the municipalities have the necessary competence to carry out the tasks expected of them. We want to continue the decentralised Norwegian model where the municipalities are local food control, and then it is important that the municipalities keep up the travelling competence within maps and measurements. In many municipalities this will be difficult if the ownership registration is divided into two separate parts. The property registration must be seen as a whole, and if the mat is to be of the necessary quality, the keeper of the register must also have the expertise in the field of surveying, and preferably also practical experience in the field of property surveying. In the opinion of the Center Party, it is important for society and the administration. Both measurement and food labelling are important for the legal security of individual citizens. The centre party disagreed with the distinction between public administration and service production when the law on ownership registration was the last to be handled, and that was for the reasons for which the case spokesperson has also done well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e155	Property registration law shall replace the applicable divisional law. When the law was passed in the spring of 2005, there was broad agreement on most aspects of the law. I am pleased that this consensus is still present. One important question, however, was the issue of when the law was passed. Should the measurement responsibility be privatised, or should the responsibility continue to lie with the municipalities as it is under the Share Act today? The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left presented proposals for continued municipal responsibility, but were voted down. The then majority wanted to privatise the responsibility for what is now an official municipal surveying business. The opposition criticizes me for taking an ideological position, trying to give the impression that I am going against a unanimous trade union. Yes, here stands bourgeois ideology against red-green ideology. The question of privatising local authorities' responsibility for real estate measurement has been a political issue since now. In addition to being a political question, there has been a question that has split the professional environment. The question has been discussed in detail. Some interest groups have welcomed the private solution, others have defended today's solution. I place considerable emphasis on the fact that the majority in the municipal sector wants to continue municipal responsibility. There is a long tradition of municipal responsibility for property surveying in Norway. There is no established private sector which can without delay take over the tasks of municipalities in this area. The industry can only take over the task by losing the municipalities for professionals. When society demands measurement, society cannot get into a situation where users do not get the business they need. The law adopted in 2005 continued the decentralised Norwegian model with the municipalities as the local food authority and the registry administrator. At the same time, in my opinion, it is not appropriate to separate the measurement and record keeping as the then majority of grossing-up occurred. In order to obtain the required quality, the person keeping the register must have access to the surveying competence. He/she should also have practical experience in the measurement of property. Property registration is a legal area where the consequences of errors often appear after many years. Users today can rely to a large extent on public archives. At the same time, there is a long tradition of respecting the municipality as an expert in the identification of old property boundaries. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal to continue today's system, where municipalities are responsible for measuring up and documenting safe property limits for the inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e176	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e179	Now I get a little confused. I was going to ask what professional conditions had changed, since this was not an ideologically justified position of the Government. The representative Sande and the representative Kristoffersen stated that there were primarily professional reasons behind it, not ideological reasons. Now the Council of State – and you have to listen to the Government – says that the opposition is right when you state that this is ideologically conditional. This is when reference is made to the fact that there was a conflict between 1999 and 2003 between the two. It was no other place than the Stortinget. A unanimous legislative committee says that it makes sense to distinguish between service production and the exercise of authority also in this type of case. Can the Council of State respond to the conclusion of the Law Commission on whether there is any new information available to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e186	There were slightly different assessments in the professional community. Among other things, a significant number of municipalities opposed the proposal that was being consulted, and so did the Norwegian Engineering Organisation, NITO. In addition, there was a minority in the legislative committee of three members who did not necessarily support the proposal, and stated that there were also many advantages in maintaining the principle in today's law of division.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e191	This is the thinnest reason I have in my nearly ten years at Stortinget for a law change in Odelstinget. You can wonder how it is possible, at all, in other countries that have a distinction between the provision of services and the exercise of authority, to carry out measurement activities to the extent that they actually do. And then the Council of State makes the cardinal mistake of proving that she may not have got involved in what we're proposing, and what was the reason for the Bondevik II government. We're not talking about privatising responsibility. No one's ever talked about it. But we're talking about separating the performance of services from the exercise of authority. I can't find any other reason on the part of the Council of State than that it's more important that the tasks are solved under municipal law than that they are solved at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e201	This question is an example of an ideological difference between the bourgeois opposition and the red-green government. I am pleased that there is a majority in the storeroom today because it is the municipalities that have to be responsible for this service. That's an ideological question. And then the professional environments are divided into the view of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e206	Municipalities are deprived of competence. One of the reasons why Norwegian municipalities are deprived of competence is that they are too small. But I'm not going to take that debate here today. I'm not entirely giving myself to my previous question. I also share the position of the representative, Mr Kristiansen, in view of the fact that this is not the most thorough proposal. It may be more thorough than submitted on green certificates, but it probably doesn't go into the books as one of the big, more thorough file submissions. Is there any new moments since a clinking clear in the NOU says that this is sensible to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e213	This matter concerns a disagreement that was fully open when the Stortinge decided to do so. The Workers' Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party had a different view than the then majority. It is then no surprise that the Government represents a consistent thinking that just makes that once the majority of the Storing has changed, we also want to make this change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e218	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e223	I had not planned to take the word now, but after what I have heard, I think I want to clarify the following: The amendment of the law adopted by the previous majority has not been put into practice in the field of measurement. So that's not what the representative Kristiansen said, that now we're going to do about something that works. What works well now is the arrangement we've had ever since the law came in 1980. It's a function based on current practice, i.e. the municipalities handle this. That is why we do, as we said, that we wanted to when we dealt with the law two years ago, continue a system in which the municipalities also take responsibility for the measurement business. So our rationale is not just ideological. But when the good, practical solution corresponds well with the ideology of the three parties, it is excellent to be able to continue a system of expanding public services. We believe that the population of any municipality will benefit from the further development of its competence, so that this service and administration become even better. I would like to point out, both as a case rapporteur and a representative, that the municipalities that want others to carry out measuring activities on their behalf have the possibility of doing so under full municipal responsibility, based on the legislation we are now adopting. It's in Section 5a. So the new moment must be – to inform the representative Kristiansen in his search for new moments – that the arrangement we have today actually works so well that we want to continue it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e234	When it is said that not all the legislative changes from 2005 have been put into practice, the case rapporteur is quite right in that respect. It's in many ways a normal development. The rapporteur again argues that the reasons for proposing this, with reference to Section 5a, are not purely ideological in nature. Still, it gets to hang in the air. The argument is that this works very well in the public domain. But that's exactly what's not the case. If the red-green side has not brought with it how the municipalities are currently struggling to acquire skills and staff on the measurement side, then the breaker has not been able to go deep and heavy enough into the matter either. When the original law commission proposed change – and that was the profession – it was because the municipal responsibility scheme in this area had not worked optimally. As previously mentioned, approx. 15 000 temporary measuring operations, which have not yet been carried out within the three-year period. It shows crystal clear – at least in my opinion – that the task that the municipalities have had and for which they will once again have sole responsibility, they are not in a position to assume. So this will probably not only bother the municipalities in the future – I am convinced that this forum will also have to deal with this matter again, later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e245	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 722]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e261	With few exceptions, all network owners are subject to local electricity supervision under the law. These supervision activities are referred to as local electricity supervision, DLE. Technically, it is managed by the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness through instructions and annual newsletters. Administratively, the supervision of each network company is sorted. Local electricity supervision shall help to ensure that electrical installations and equipment do not endanger life, health and material values. If we look at the dangers, figures from 2005 show that approx. 36 pst. by the building fires this year may be connected to electricity, caused either by failure of electrical installations/equipment/equipment or by incorrect use of electricity. Unfortunately, 67 people died in fire in 2005. Electrical failure was reported as a fire cause in about 10 pst. of these cases. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that the setting under item 1.1.1 says that ‘67 people died’ in a fire in 2005 as a result of electrical failure. This is wrong. 67 deaths are the total number of persons killed as a result of fire this year, irrespective of the cause of fire. The correct figure should be between 6 and 7 people, but it's serious enough. In 2005, 57 accidents involving personal injury were also reported. Two of the accidents resulted in deaths due to contact — contact — with electrical installations. In addition, it is assumed that there are many accidents/accidents that are never reported to supervision. A study by the National Institute for Safety and Health at Work shows that up to 3000 accidents/accidents per year. years among electrical fitters are never reported. In the light of these events, it goes without saying that well-functioning local electricity supervision, which is intended to help electrical installations and equipment to avoid endangering life, health and material values, is important. Unfortunately, developments in local electricity supervision in recent years have been negative, with the number of annual works and the number of supervision being significantly reduced. In order to address this negative development, the proposal for amending the law provides for: the legal clarification of the overall supervisory obligations of local electricity regulators extending the current provision on periodic penalty payments and the possibility of penalties through the imposition of an infringement fee, in order to ensure that the provisions of the law are followed by legal clarification of the rules to be applied in order to ensure that there is stability and independence, so as to prevent unfortunate duplication of roles for supervisory staff in the upgrading of certain legal provisions, in order to stress that the Supervisory Act also covers the supervision of electrical equipment; In addition, it is proposed that the law, which currently has no official short title, be referred to as the «Electoral Supervision Act». An overall committee supports the legislative amendment proposal and therefore recommends that Odelstinget take a decision in line with the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e298	All electric network owners are in the law of 24 May 1929 No. 4 required to supervise electrical installations and equipment. In addition, some major industrial companies have the opportunity to have their own local power control. All forms of electrical supervision system, also known as local electricity supervision, DLE, are professionally managed by the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness through instructions and annual framework directives. DLE is administered by each network company. The proposed proposal provides for the continuation of the main principles of the existing DLE scheme. Over time, the development of DLE has been negative. There have been down-staffing, and the DLE checks have only decreased. The proposition now proposes a legal change to reverse this negative trend in DLE’s execution. All tasks to be performed by the network through DLE shall be subject to an extended statutory periodic penalty payment. It is very important to better control DLE through a reinforced law, as the proposition suggests. In Norway, there are more fires every year, especially in private homes, than in any other country it is natural to compare with. The reasons for the relatively frequent fire frequency may be many. Most of the dwellings, except for housing blocks, are made of wood materials and are therefore easily flammable. A main reason for the fires is enough that many dwellings use a lot of electricity for heating. Loose furnaces and electrical interconnectors are widely used. Similarly, the supervision of electrical equipment both in private homes and in enterprises in several cases is subject to the requirements already laid down by the law today. With the current legislation, the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness does not have sufficient means to ensure that DLE carries out its tasks under the given laws and guidelines. DLE is unable to carry out the controls they are required to perform satisfactorily. Low priority and decreasing staff are likely to be the cause of these failures. The Progress Party fully supports the amendments to the Law of 24 May 1929 No. 4 on the supervision of electrical installations and equipment, hereinafter referred to as the Electricity Supervision Act, as described in Ot.prp. No 51. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness will have the necessary legal powers to impose a DLE periodic penalty payment for non-supervisory offences. These legislative changes will increase the electrical standard of equipment and wiring, both in private homes and in enterprises, and are likely to reduce the number of annual fires.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e317	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 726]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e333	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five replies be given within the allocated speaking time after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e342	The case – implementation of the European Patent Convention – changes the patent law. There is broad consensus within the Committee, except in the case of the Christian People's Party. I would assume that they explain their views to the extent necessary. I would also refer to case No. 9 in the United Kingdom earlier today and the debate we had there on consent to the ratification of the European Patent Convention. It was a broad, thorough and good debate in which we highlighted most of the issues. The majority of the Committee considers that it is important that Norwegian industry should be given the same conditions of competition as its European competitors by means of ratification. The Progress Party and the Right have two proposals on the matter. I want to explain these proposals. The aim is not to introduce specific national rules and arrangements derogating from the normal patent regime in other countries that have ratified the Convention. Then it is a little strange that the government is proposing a new legislation that is not a prerequisite for accession to the EPC and that could appear to be specific Norwegian rules. What we are thinking about here is a proposal to allow the courts to obtain an advisory opinion from the ethical committee on patent cases in Section 52. As we see it, we believe it is a rule that can counteract harmonisation of patent law at European level and create unnecessary unforeseeableness. We are also concerned that the consequences of such a proposal need to be further investigated, and we would therefore like this proposal to be sent back to the Government for a more thorough investigation. That is also something we are proposing. I'm addressing this proposal. I also refer to the proposal in Section 52(b) on access to administrative review of the validity of patents, a change in addition to what is necessary for the accession of the EPC. The way we evaluate it, the question is not solved. It may have as a consequence the extension of matters of validity because the parties will bring proceedings for administrative review further to the courts. We also propose to send it back to the Government for a more thorough investigation, and I address that proposal. I will also take the opportunity to correct the adjustment. On page 10 of the setting, the first paragraph starting with ‘The yearning shall’ shall not be indented. It belongs to other paragraphs of Section 52(b). In the case of § 52(e), the same applies. What's written as the third term is part of the second term and should not be indented. I also have to spend some time commenting on the process that has been in the committee. It has been mildly unyielding from the government parties. They have not complied with the time limits set by the Committee for its work. It has made the matter difficult to deal with for the case rapporteur, simply because we have had a very short period of time. In some cases, we have not had time to deal with the comments that come in. The most serious thing about this is that the setting was changed after it was released into the committee. I assume that the government parties explain their way of dealing with this matter here in the house, and that they will come up with an explanation of their proposals in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e363	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e366	First, I would like to thank the case spokesperson who has released us through both this and the other two patent cases we are dealing with in the Stortinget earlier today, in a good way. There were some comments from the case spokesperson that relate to the process. When it comes to what happened on the presentation, that there was an incurrency error, I'm just going to say, it's okay to fix it. It also has to be certain that e.g. would be applicable to the opposition party. I am pleased that a large majority in the Stortinget in the past have agreed that Norway should join the European Patent Organisation, EPO. This case is important for Norwegian industry, which is increasingly in need of protection of its industrial dishes due to increased international competition. EPO membership will improve the ability of Norwegian companies to compete on the European market. As a consequence of us now joining the EPO, there must be some promise changes, and that is what we are now considering. The law states that if a European patent is challenged in Norway on the grounds that it conflicts with public order and morality, it can be obtained from the ethical committee of patent cases. By means of the legislative proposals, the system of names and the right to review patents will be strengthened. It is also proposed to introduce a system of administrative review of patents by the Patent Board, which will also apply to European patents. I'm glad we've done these clarifications, and I think we've balanced the need for national over-tests with a good track record for business. We in the Labour Party are concerned about good industrial policy, and we are concerned about taking care of small and medium-sized enterprises. Therefore, we are particularly pleased with the system of administrative review. This is a tool that can benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. As we have said in the setting, we believe that the amendment of the law, among other things. will also strengthen the rights of small operators to review patents by giving them the opportunity for administrative review. During the hearing, it appeared that some thought that membership of the EPO would make it harder for Norway to play the role of bridge builder between poor and rich countries. However, the EPO has no power to act on behalf of the Member States and does not limit Norway’s role in international negotiations. The role we have had in connection with this, and of which we are proud, must also be passed on. The Right Party and the Advance Party also have an observation on the exchange list of medicinal products. The working party does not support this comment. Such a proposal will have major economic consequences both for the public and for patients. That being said, it is good that the new medicines have a product patent, which they have actually had since 1992. This means that there will only be the product patent as a liability after all, as the protection lasts for only 25 years. A little comment on: The point of the patent system is to encourage new inventions, inventions for the future. Finally, I would like to remind you that the concern behind patent legislation is to promote innovation in Norwegian business. Achieving patent rights is not an end in itself, but it provides enterprises with a tool that can provide the basis for future revenues. Therefore, it is the ability of enterprises to mobilise and realise the values of a right that will be the challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e383	Earlier today, the majority has agreed to ratify the European Patent Convention and to accede to the Act of Audit so that we can become members of the European Patent Organisation EPO. Here in Odelstingen, we are now going to consider amendments to the Patent Act, which must be put in place when we are going to accede to this Convention. That's why I first want to refer to the Soria Moria statement, where we said that we should facilitate Norwegian business by securing patent rights in line with the competitors you meet. That's what we're about to do now. In addition, we will make it easier and cheaper to try out the validity of patents. SV is very pleased with the setting because several very positive changes have been made. Some of them I choose to draw out here. If the validity of a patent is brought before the courts, the new amendment will strengthen the possibilities of clarifying the ethical aspects of the patent. When we open up access to the courts to obtain the opinion of the ethical committee on patent cases, we at the same time facilitate a broader and more thorough decision on the validity of cases before the courts. We will be able, by a Norwegian EPO membership, to put aside EPO patents which are invalid in Norway through Norwegian court proceedings and administrative review, if the patent may be contrary to public order and morality, which are the concepts used. Following the government's legislative proposal, it will be up to the Patent Board and the courts whether or not to bring an action. The ethical denominator has only dealt with two cases since it was created, and the SV does not ignore that there could have been several cases in which it could have been brought into. Therefore, unlike the Progress Party, SV believes it is important to facilitate that the ethical denominator can independently address and provide opinions on patent applications by reference to Section 1b of the Patent Act. SV wants this right of initiative to apply to applications submitted to the Norwegian Patent Board and also to applications submitted to the EPO for validity in Norway. Therefore, SV is very pleased that the majority is united in the recommendation to the Government to consider promoting such a legislative proposal that will adequately address this important issue. As the previous speaker said, some important input was made to the committee during the hearing. Among other things, expressed concern about Norwegian accession to the European Patent Convention will affect our role as a driving force for the interests of developing countries to be safeguarded in international negotiations on patent issues. In the light of the concerns expressed, it is therefore a pleasure to refer to the Letter of the Ministry of Justice saying that they emphasise the Government's objective of Norway playing an active bridge construction role between OECD countries and developing countries and that this is firm and will not be affected by accession to the European Patent Convention. The Soria Moria Declaration also states that Norway should support the request for renegotiation of the Patent Rights Agreement by developing countries. During the examination of the Patent Directive, so-called remedial measures were introduced. Norway shall be among the most restrictive European countries in terms of levels of invention and patents on genetic material and among the leading countries in terms of compliance with the Biodiversity Convention. It is important for SV to follow the remedial measures in such a way that the Government can, on the basis of experience, propose the necessary adjustments so that the measures can operate in line with its intention. Finally, I would like to mention the work done to introduce mandatory requirements on the indication of origin and traceability in all international patent law for biological material and traditional knowledge. This is very important, and SV believes that this needs to be done. We see that the requirement will support the UN Convention on Biological Diversity. My appeal to the Government will be that this work be given a very high priority in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e404	I would also like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for handling the matters we have dealt with earlier today in Stortinget, and this matter is being discussed in the Committee. It's a complicated matter, and it's also a matter that challenges many of the political parties. I would like to comment on some of the points raised by the rapporteur on the ethical topic, and what the rapporteur believes can counteract harmonisation and thus remove some of the intention of the legislative changes. It is important to bear in mind that the previous government and the previous large-scale majority have opened up access to patents in life, and there are patents in life that are one of the complex issues here. They made it Norwegian law through the ratification of the Patent Directive. The remedial measures adopted at the same time in Stortinget should be a safety net for ethically controversial matters, and it is important that it is assumed that it remains with the Norwegian Patent Board. The centre party and the majority of the population wish is an evaluation of the impact of the measures during the period they have been in force, and a request is also made by the Government to propose adjustments so that the measures can operate in line with the intention. As mentioned earlier in the Storting meeting, it is well known that the Centre Party is critical of the issuing of national authority in areas of major social importance. When we now accept Norwegian accession to the European Patent Convention, it has been very important for us that the Ministry of Justice has clearly assured that the Norwegian Patent Board and Norwegian courts will be able to recognise EPO patents in Norway if they are contrary to public order and morality, or the ethical codes. We will therefore continue to have an ethical safety net that can stop the validity of controversial patents in Norway, for example in relation to border countries between discoveries and inventions related to the collective term ‘patent-in-life’. Here we are at the heart of the discussion that the rapporteur pointed out in his statement that it is actually necessary to keep a safety net on, even if it is against harmonisation. It is also important to take into account that, from now on, the ethical denominator should be able to comment on individual applications on its own initiative. Today, it is only allowed to comment on matters which it receives from the Patent Board. Over the years under review, it has had only two issues for treatment. The following shall be able to address, for the future, both ordinary Norwegian patent applications and patents granted by the EPO. This is important as part of a general Norwegian process in relation to the verification of validity of EPO patents in Norway. It is important, for the parties to the Centre, to stress that complaints by the parties must weigh heavily, and if within a specified period of time, the ethical consideration is that a patent should not be granted, the appeal shall be dealt with by the Board of Patents. It is a significant strengthening of the role of the denominator, and caring for the needs we feel are important in relation to the issue of an ethical safety net and the discussion of patents in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e428	The debate in Odelstinget today is linked to the debate in Stortinget earlier today on the European Patent Convention, EPC. It is in this way historic, and it shows that the Government is taking action in relation to what we see as very important industrial policy challenges. The Odelstingsproposition contains proposals for the necessary amendments to the patent law upon Norwegian accession to the EPC. This applies to rules establishing that European patents relating to Norway have the same effect in this country as Norwegian patents and the detailed conditions for doing so. I am pleased to note that the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights supports these proposals and that we have received a broad political majority on the main lines of this. It's important. In addition, the proposal and the committee position contain two proposals which are not a necessary consequence of accession to the EPC. It concerns the proposal to provide for administrative review of patents by the Patent Board and the proposal to allow the courts to obtain the opinion of the ethical committee for patent cases, which has also been referred to the Advocate General. These proposals will apply both in Norwegian patent cases and in European patents pending in Norway. Administrative review by the Patent Board will be an alternative to legal proceedings. The system will make it easier and cheaper to get patents tried — it may even go faster if you carefully follow that process. In addition, the scheme will contribute to ensuring that the restrictive Norwegian view on the patenting of biotechnological inventions and the ethics regime has an effect on European patents in force in Norway. A majority of the Hearing Officers who expressed their views on this issue, including representatives of the business community, supported the proposal. I am pleased that this proposal has been supported by the majority of the committee. I also agree with the adjustments in the bill, § 52d and § 63, which have been proposed by some different majority configurations in the committee. The proposal to allow the courts to obtain an opinion from the Ethical Division of Patents would give the courts the same opportunity to clarify the ethical aspects of the case as the Patent Board. This proposal was also supported by many bodies during the consultation, including some representatives of the business community. I am pleased that a majority in the Committee also supports this proposal. I have noticed that the majority are concerned that there may be several cases in which the ethical denominator should have been brought in, and that they ask the Government to consider proposing amendments to the patent law that allow the denominator to provide opinions on Norwegian and European patents throughout the patent period. I agree that such an assessment is needed and will start such work with the aim that any changes may be in place at the latest when the first European patents take effect in Norway. I would also like to clarify a matter in connection with the ethical note: the Letter of Enlightenment of the Ministry of Justice of 4 June stated that the Patent Board has, until now, decided on two patent applications in the area where patent access was extended by the Patent Directive. It was not said that both matters were submitted for consideration. It is therefore correct, as it has previously been stated, that the name has only dealt with one case. I have noticed that a majority in the Committee asks the Government to assess the impact of the remedial measures in the context of the Patent Directive on Norwegian patent practice. I agree that the measures should be reviewed with a view to clarifying whether they have had the intended effect. I am pleased that both the majority and a minority in the Committee are concerned with the continuation of Norway's bridge building role between OECD countries and developing countries in the field of patents. Norway’s potential in this area is not affected by the accession to the EPC. The government will continue to give high priority to this work. This applies not least to the efforts to make an impact on Norway’s proposal to introduce a mandatory requirement for a declaration of origin, etc. for biological material and traditional knowledge in all patent applications for such inventions concerning or applying for such material or knowledge. I also record that the majority refers to the possibility of signalling a Norwegian sui generis code in connection with the work on the Natural Diversity Act. The Minister for the Environment is responsible for this work, and I will make sure that she too is duly informed about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e451	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e454	There is, of course, a fairly broad majority behind this position. However, the Council of State mentioned industrial policy challenges, that it was important for the Government to address them. I agree with that. However, with regard to the minority comment that goes on a product patent on medicinal products, which did not receive a majority in the committee, I would ask the Council of State: how will the pharmaceutical industry be protected in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e460	In fact, I believe that the minority comment concerning medicinal products is not relevant in this legislative work. To the extent that one wants to make changes in the way one has practised the patenting of medicinal products, it belongs to debates other than this. We are now adopting legislation that will, to a large extent, also ensure that the patent rights and processes relating to patents that everyone may have will have a generally good regulatory framework and with an international anchoring. The issues raised in the minority comment on medicinal products have many contentious aspects, and there is no doubt that there is a political disagreement. I think the representative, Mr. Eldegard, well pointed out some of the reasons why we don't want to go into such a comment – and in any case not in a legislative process of this kind. This would cost a lot of money to both the people's and others. It would be unnatural, in my opinion, to grant such a right to pharmaceutical companies so long after 1992. I therefore believe that these are questions that need to be raised in a different context. But the answer from the Government is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e469	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e472	I refer to my article in Stortinget earlier today in matters related to the same theme. I will not repeat the whole argument. I just want to remind you that when implementing the Patent Directive, both the Christian People's Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Left and the Coastal Party voted against. The Christian People's Party did so even if we were in government at that time. Taking this one's in his own government was very high, but this made us based on the meaning of the matter, and the heavy, primal assessment that underlies our position in this matter. We record between the lines in the committee setting, and insofar as what was said, that SV and the centre party may not feel quite well in the situation they are in now – but it should be. We record that they have at least made assessments and come to a different conclusion from what the Christian People's Party did in a very similar situation in the previous period. So I just want to make known, even if the setting goes on, that the Christian People's Party is going to vote against ratification.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e479	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 727]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e495	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government — within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e506	The Committee agrees with the Government's clear objective of abolishing the pay queue, normalising the operation of criminal services and improving the quality of criminal enforcement. In this ambition, there are plans to reduce capacity utilisation in prisons from today’s 96–98pst. to 90 pst. and to remove temporary measures such as: forward release and duplication. Reducing capacity utilisation is an important measure to improve the working environment of criminal services and to balance the relationship between tasks and resources. If we are to achieve this objective, it is important to focus on actions that provide lasting and flexible solutions to the challenges of criminal justice. A central measure here is the construction of several prison sites, but the Committee agrees with the Government that there is not enough unilateral capacity development through prison sites. Flexible solutions are needed where simple - grip criminal services can adjust the number of places in line with the need. Alternative forms of compensation will also, in many cases, be a better form of punishment than traditional prison sentences, and will often also mean better rehabilitation for individuals. However, the Committee is divided into views on some of the concepts proposed by the Government. The majority, the Workers' Party and SV, are united with the Government in the establishment of forms of criminal execution such as electronic control, increasing the use of community punishment, § 12 zoning and § 16 zoning. This, in our view, allows us to meet any fluctuations in capacity needs in the future without having to create or possibly phase out detention centres. A joint committee points out that housing queues weaken the preventive effect of the punishment. When convicted or accused persons commit new criminal acts while waiting for judgment and acquittal, trust in the criminal system and criminal policy is weakened. Lack of capacity reinforces the problem of relapse criminals. In addition to the problem of housing cows, we would like to stress that it is particularly important to further develop the quality of criminal enforcement. The Labour Party and the SV will point out that the justice policy at all levels must be research-based, not action-based, and we look forward to the criminal justice messages coming in 2008. We must have criminal care that can at any time take care of the convicted. And we know that the content of the soning has a lot to say about whether or not inserting is going to happen again to crime. A comprehensive committee is therefore very pleased that all prisons have an educational provision in place during 2007. In addition to the legislative changes, the Odelsting proposal contains a wide-ranging discussion of different measures that are and will be implemented to phase out the reconciliation queue, including: efforts to improve the security of more open prisons, to increase the use of housing in treatment institutions and to increase the number of foreign residents transferred to housing in the home country. This is in addition to the prison sites that we have set up, and planned new both open and closed prisons, such as prisons. Held with 251 new places to finish in April 2010. A total of 316 new places are created during 2006–2007 and the KRUS recording has increased by two additional classes in 2006 and by two additional classes in 2007. This is a right and important bet, which the majority applaud. A collective committee is behind the Government when it is suggested that it should not be acquitted. This is in order to facilitate prison planning of capacity utilisation and to ensure that the police do not use resources to address convictions that are initially to meet voluntarily for acquittal. The Committee is very satisfied with the proposed adjustments to Section 16 of the Penal Code. These adjustments allow criminal services to transfer several sentences to prison outside prison with special conditions when half of the sentences are carried out. The conditions have so far been too strict, so that few have benefited from the scheme. The Committee is also pleased that the promille programme is now being extended to a programme against drug-related harm. Road traffic offences § 31 will now apply to those who have problems with alcohol or other intoxicating or narcotic drugs. The use of forward release was introduced by Bondevik II and continued by Stoltenberg II. The Committee agrees with the Government that we should not expand the relation to the use of forward release. The working party and SV stress that this scheme should be removed once the queue is gone. On the right, a note about termination before, but this note has fallen by an incursion. When it comes to forward release, I would like to make it clear that this system can only be used if the other conditions for release to the test are met and an overall assessment makes it advisable. Domfelte's behaviour under atone is emphasized, and there is therefore no extensive intervention in the judgments it is about. No, it's a few days for the shortest judges – so no drama. The Committee has been in Bergen and has looked at the exciting project ‘The drug programme with judicial control’. This seems to be a good measure, but a joint committee agrees with the Government that we should await the evaluation of the projects in Bergen and Oslo before any increased use of drug programmes with judicial control. The working party and SV share the views of the hearing bodies that give wide support to the Government's goal of removing the pay queue during the current ageing period. We are also very pleased that the housing queue has been reduced by almost 500 judges since the turn of the year and in May it was approx. 2,000. This indicates that the actions of the Government have been taken. The Labour Party and SV consider it to open up criminal proceedings with electronic control as an important legislative change in the proposition. This means that the domed son in his own home with the control of an electronic transmitter attached to the leg or hand. Here we get a chance that the first-time zone doesn't have to go into what many will call the prison ball, where he has to associate with other hard-core criminals, and at the same time let go of cutting out school or work. The system is just based on being active through work, school, treatment or the like a certain number of hours each week, and otherwise be forced to spend time in your own home. Criminal services control implementation through both agreements and out-of-date visits, anti-fraud checks, workplace controls and the presence of criminal services. Although experience from other countries is very promising, we would point out that a thorough evaluation of this testing scheme is important and that this evaluation will be a key element in the quality assurance of the scheme before making it permanent. The Labour Party and SV agree with the Government in changing the rules for participation in criminal law § 28 a in order to increase the possibilities for courts to combine unconditional prison sentences with community sentences. The Committee is also concerned that there should be a change in the case of fines. We agree that closed prison sites should not be used in such areas, and ask the Ministry to return to the Stortinge in an appropriate way with a settlement on penitentiary where there may be subsidiary social punishment and/or imprisonment – that is, that we can open up to the use of community sanctions in such cases. It's a big paradox when convicted people go out in the open for years without being a threat to society, then come into a closed prison place. Another paradox with today's penance is the worn-out drug addicts who get another cure. They can't pay the fine if they don't break in or even prostitute themselves – or go to prison. Then there has to be much better with community punishment or detoxification. The Committee welcomes the increase in capacity that has been set in motion and for what is planned both by permanent and temporary measures. It is also good that action has been taken to improve the security of several prisons and that exceptional maintenance has been carried out at Ullersmo prison. Measures to improve the security of Hof and Ilseng mean that more prisoners can be called in for direct compensation at these prisons, both of which are open prisons. Another consequence is that fewer prisoners have to be transferred to other closed prisons in the event of disciplinary offences. Finally, on behalf of the Committee, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the communication control presented is subject to the necessary amendment of the Penal Code in order to bring this law into line with the European Convention on Human Rights. This has been presented here for practical reasons and has nothing to do with cooling.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e552	It's getting late, and we're probably heavy in the head some and each, but it's important to keep your head clear when we're going to discuss a matter as important as action to wind up the queues. If you've been reading the newspapers in the last few months and looking at what we've been debating in this case from the Justice Committee, it's just the reconciliation queues in general it's been about. I was going to start this article by quoting the sentence "Let the prisoners go, it's ours," but then it struck me that the quote was basically exhausted. Because today we are in a situation where we release prisoners free regardless of whether it is winter, spring, summer or harvest, this only to get the cows away, cost what it will cost. But at what cost? There's not a single day going on without opening the paper and reading about people who commit new crimes, who have been granted parole, have been given probation and have been sentenced to social punishment or transferred from closed to open atoning. All of this in order to have more prison sites released. We get reports in the Evening Post that you have to let criminals go. Criminals must be released in order to release custody sites. Then one can read the next day that half of those who are put in prison are released again before they have the zone finished. If you cut a sentence by five, ten, or twenty days, it's not that dangerous, the council says. The party of progress is really worried. We're worried when we read that the Council of State doesn't think it's so much to get the criminals out a few days earlier. I've said it before, but only last year these insignificant days corresponded to over 150 years. It's not just the Progress Party that's worried. The Feds and the Feds are concerned, the police are concerned and the criminal services are concerned. Everyone's worried outside the state council, it looks like. Is that how we want it? Isn't it much better to stick your finger in the ground and admit that there are more prison places we need, and then especially closed places? Think it would be so nice if we could close a department! What is not doing this situation that we have today, with people's sense of justice? What about the victim and the relatives? The situation today is basically a mockery of the victim. If you've committed a criminal act, you're going to pay for your punishment, not let it out in time because we don't have enough prison grounds. In this case, one needs to focus on getting more prison places, not on other creative forms of reconciliation. We all have a common goal of bringing down the queues, but we have different instruments. A constant feature of the proposed legislative changes is that the implementation of penalties is proposed from prison to outreach in society. Today, we have a situation of pay queues also for community punishment. The Progress Party believes that a recent overfocused on the use of community sanctions to free prisons and thus establish a new type of settlement queue. The priority must be to get rid of the pay queue even in social penalties, not to extend the scheme. The government aims to reduce crime and create more security. This is not done by letting the criminals out early. It is important to keep the content of the ransom in focus and make sure that the relapse rate is not as high as it is today. The pressure exerted by the staff of the criminal justice system today is not sound either for the staff or for the prisoners. The work on individual plans is not as well followed up over all. The Council of State says he has high ambitions in criminal care, and the Progress Party looks forward to the criminal welfare message that is coming in the near future. It is necessary to have bonding capacity to prevent the formation of queues. The settlement capacity needs to be adapted to the punishment and punishment measures; it must not be such that the punishment measurement is adapted to the settlement capacity, as the Government is doing here today. I hope, therefore, that the Council of State does not now look blindly at the basket that shows the downturn of reconciliation queue, but also sees that this is a dangerous way to go, and that he focuses on people's perception of justice and especially on the victim in this case. Finally, we need more prison places and especially closed places. I would then like to address the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e573	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e576	First of all, thanks to the rapporteur for a thorough and good review of the matter. The size is now approaching half the length of the period. The Government has set itself the goal of terminating the settlement queue by 2009 and is clearly willing to go far in order to achieve this. It is positive that the reconciliation queue is now on its way down. However, the right considers that there is reason to question some of the instruments used by the Government, including the distribution between closed and open settlement sites. We fear that the bet in open spaces will further increase the pressure on closed places, and that this will result in a previous transfer of prisoners to open spaces with other procedures for leave and check and poorer assumptions to prevent escapes. Long queues must not be used as an excuse to take less account of the need to protect society. Several transfers of foreign prisoners to settlement in the home country would release closed settlement capacity. The right assumes that the work on several bilateral transfers agreements is now accorded the highest priority by the Government. The present proposition has the main focus on capacity expansion, but says little about better content in the settlement. This is not in harmony with the promises contained in the Soria Moria Declaration. High pressure on cooling also means that prisons are currently filled to the edge. I would particularly like to point out the difficult settlement situation at Ila prison, and I wonder if this is not affected in the proposition, all the time we talk about detention sentences, which are some of the most demanding prison inmates we have in Norwegian prisons. The Ila staff have alerted because there's queues to Ila and the capacity for custody has been blown up. But they have also alerted because Ila prison has not been provided with resources to ensure custody sentences offer a program and activity under restitution. I think we can agree that meaningful content in the housing increases the chance of successful rehabilitation. We must not get into a situation where the detention sentences and other dangerous criminals are released without proper rehabilitation being carried out. The right considers that the quality of compensation is essential for building a safe platform for a crime-free life afterwards. Therefore, the Right has proposed increased appropriations for teaching in prisons. The goal is more tailor-made reconciliation programmes and more and clearer demands for the prisoners to participate. If the work on rehabilitation is better coordinated, we can also reduce the number of unemployed in the long term. The Bondevik II Government introduced a probationary system with the conclusion of an obligatory settlement agreement in the treatment institution for convictions that had committed minor crimes, such as winning crimes, etc., and that were addicted to drug addiction, but where a breach of terms of treatment was to result in a return to subsidiary punishment, such as a criminal offence. unconditional imprisonment. The right is pleased that the Government is now following up this initiative, which gives addicts a new chance of a better life, with the focus on establishing and starting work or education when you're done making amends. However, let me make a comment on drug abuse in Norwegian prisons. It is well known that drugs represent a significant problem and that prison staff are making considerable efforts to detect drug trafficking and drug use by prisoners. That is why it is very regrettable when we last Friday on TV2 learned that Ila’s healthcare should have distributed user equipment in the form of syringes to prisoners. Of course, this is totally unacceptable if it results in correctness, and I would like to ask the Council of State what happens next in that case: is it such that the health services in prison can allow themselves almost anything under the obligation of professional secrecy, and is it such that health services act as a state in the state completely outside the control of the prison administration? All prisoners are required to have an individual recovery plan in order to achieve better rehabilitation and more systematic follow-up during and after settlement. Unfortunately, there is a lot of evidence to suggest that many prisoners will not be able to comply with this right. The right therefore promotes a proposal that the system of individual plans in the compensation should be evaluated, and asks the Government to come back with any proposals for action for the Stortinget by the autumn of 2008. I have to say that we are quite disappointed when we talk about this at the latest in the autumn of 2008, and note that the government parties will not support a proposal for such an evaluation. Psychiatric hospitals today care for mentally ill people who have committed serious crime and who are not reputable. Several serious incidents only in the last year suggest that psychiatry does not take the necessary consideration of the security of society around them when laying down their daily routines, granting leave, etc. The right does not disagree with the patient’s best focus, but in order to avoid discrediting the scheme, the assessment of leave must also pay particular attention to the action taken and, where appropriate, the risk of recurrence in the event of early access to play without a companion. Society must further develop appropriate measures to ensure adequate response to mentally ill people who commit less crime and are too sick to zone in prison but too healthy to be coerced into psychiatry. These are people who should be given better protection against themselves, not least for the sake of the local environments that they almost feel terrorised by them. The right is hoping that the sample investigating the issue can conclude early in 2008, so that we can get an offer or know what to do with this type of person, who obviously has major problems, but where we are today quite daunting about what to do. In addition, in cases where psychiatric treatment is administered, it is considered that the primary responsibility for external security, the granting of leave, etc., must be assessed by the Right, and that this is done in an interaction where psychiatric care becomes a more integrated part of criminal care with its treatment arrangements. This will explain the role — psychiatry will be able to concentrate on care and treatment without having a criminal function normally associated with criminal justice. The right is therefore also promoting proposals accordingly. The right supports the changes in Section 16 of the Penal Code in order to make more active use of the scheme for those who need it. We believe, however, that the law should clarify the security of the family and society around it and have proposed a change to Section 16 in line with this. In this case, the Government has made various proposals which will help to slow down the queue quickly. On the right, we believe that the Government is out of balance with people's perception of justice and the fact that the Government facilitates reconciliations that are perceived as more liberal and as over-the-counter to the verdict of the Court of Justice. The continuation of advanced parole so that this is now the rule and not the exception, and the proposal of electronic home-soning sounds bad in the ears of people. Even more specifically, the Government states that as an alternative to prison, home soning is not to be decided by the Court. Domestic atonement with electronic control raises more questions and will run counter to people's legal opinions. How will society respond to crime victims who may thus experience that the sentence is allowed to remain in their home environment under atonement? The right would point out that the proposal submitted by the Government violates a central principle of Norwegian law where the Court of Justice decides on criminal alternatives. The government appears to have circumvented this principle by defining criminal execution by electronic means as a form of redress to be assessed by the Criminal Service. Furthermore, the right is surprised that the Government will not distinguish between those cases where compensation with electronic control may be the main penalty in the case of a judge up to four months and where compensation with electronic control is used as part of the rehabilitation and termination at the end of a longer judgment. The right will refer to the negative experience of today’s alarm of violence, and assumes that the system of compensation with electronic control is not put in place until new and safer technologies are in place and society’s security is safeguarded, while at the same time criminal care must also be provided with resources for the follow-up to such settlement conditions. The number of repeaters is high in Norwegian prisons. If we are to avoid the build-up of new queues and new shipper roofs, it is right-wing view that two groups in particular must pay the highest attention: young offenders must be stopped as early as possible and the repeats must leave circulation. To the right, criminal services have to learn from the positive experience of attempted mentoring. This will ensure a firm stance and support in the everyday life during and in the decisive phase of release from restitution. Increased use of community sanctions will require increased efforts by criminal justice in the form of closer follow-up to the individual sentence. In particular, with regard to the youngest offenders, it is important to have a varied menu of measures that provide for flexible and as adapted settlement conditions as possible. In Denmark, provision has been made for appropriate-age convictions and, where appropriate, for the provision of some of the sentences that reside in a voluntary student collective. Recruitment to the collectives takes place on a voluntary basis and by means of economic incentives, such as reduced rent, etc., against the commitment of these students to contribute actively to rehabilitation and the ability of the court to build a new and healthier network for the returnee to society. Following inspiration from Denmark, Højre has made a proposal asking the Government to assess the establishment of a pilot project with a voluntary student collective after a model of Denmark. I actually want to appeal here today to the government parties to assess whether there is not a proposal you could support. Finally, I would just like to show that the rapporteur has explained an incursion, an error that was in the setting. I would also like to address the proposals No. 1 to 3, by the Party of Progress and the Right, and proposal No. 6, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e625	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has addressed the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e628	The debate on the settlement of the settlement queue has sometimes been quite intense in the last year, and it is understandable when, at the end of the year, there was a pay queue for the unconditional imprisonment of 2,499 judges. Now the Council of State has explained that you have a little better forecasts when we're almost halfway through the year, and that's positive. But it is clear that for people's perception of the justice system and the criminal enforcement system, it is necessary to keep the settlement queue to an absolute minimum. Now there are also several new prisons in the period, and we used to have a debate in Stortingen today around Halden Prison. In addition, we know that prisons – at least for some people – are working in Northern and Rogaland, and we will see how things are going. From the Christian People's Party, we are largely positive to the proposed position. It also concerns the proposal to increase the capacity of the Education Centre of Criminal Welfare so that more new classes can be put in place. Therefore, I should rather spend some time on what is more problematic, and it is the proposal of the Government on probation – even if it is only a probationary mechanism – with electronic control as a form of criminal enforcement. There have been arguments from others as to why such a testing scheme should not be applied. For the Christian People's Party, the most important argument is that it can be perceived as a privatisation of the execution of the sentence. On that basis, we might be a little bit surprised that the red-greens are going in for it. However, I choose to trust that the red-greens do not do this primarily in order to bring down the reconciliation queue, but because they can defend such a test project regardless of whether we have a reconciliation queue or not. Then to the voting. With regard to the proposals from the minority, we are voting in favour of proposal No. 2 and proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox In the vote, what I said about a test order with electronic control means that the Christian People's Party votes against the second paragraph of Section 16. With regard to the first paragraph of Section 16, there is a slight disagreement between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand and the government parties on the other with regard to the possibility of settlement outside prison. After an assessment, we have come to the conclusion that the proposition has a good enough balance with society's demands for security and the rehabilitation that each jurisdiction should have, and chooses to vote in favour of the Government's proposal in relation to the very first paragraph of Section 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e639	For someone who is not in the Committee on Justice, there is one thing that strikes you at the moment a reader of this position, and that is that it is a deafening consensus, and that there is a militant difference between the policy of the Advance Party and the Right and the rhetoric that comes from this pulpit. Making yourself high and dark by taking the last few days' debate in the media and then saying that electronic atonement is contrary to the general sense of justice because you can meet people again in the street, and at the same time go in for young offenders to zone in book collections, and at the same time go in for atonement at home without electronic surveillance, it stands for me as a bit special. - But aside from that. We're starting from what's good here, that's that this is something we can succeed with, that we'll succeed with and that we want to succeed with. We do it with the tools we believe in, because they promote better criminal care and a greater probability that the people who are released and come out at the other end will lead a life that consists of less crime than what it did before they came in. This is about punishment. We have punishment to abolish individual revenge and leave it to society to use punishment, among other things. as deterrence. Statue of Liberty is quite dramatic. That's why I have to admit that I'm reacting to a part of what's standing here -- I'm not saying this to say that in the position we always have ours on the dry, but it was the language used here that I reacted to when I read that ‘flexible solutions in criminal law are important in order to be able to adjust production capacity as needed’. Here, I found What we're talking about is putting people in jail. Talking about the production capacity of settlement days in such a context suggests that we've got a technocrat language that infiltrates our language, when we're actually talking about something as serious as deprivation of liberty. And as I said, I'm not saying that it can't happen from the position as well, but it's people we're talking about. One important thing is to try to avoid relapses into crime in people, and the other important thing is to avoid people being recruited into tougher environments. We'll do that through a bet, among other things. to education in prisons. We have an escalation going on there and get to the goal of this eventually. The big bet that will really mean something is the big action plan for intoxication that is coming, and that will just do something for all the 60 pst. in prisons with drug problems, and could make a positive contribution in this context. Here it is that we are in a field and work along a line that former governments have also worked on, but it is our Minister of Justice who delivers the goods, our government makes concrete proposals on the table that are mainly received with ovations in the Storting. That's good, because it gives us a broad basis to build on. There's something that sparks more debate here. It is clear that the issue of electronic surveillance in the case of domestic settlement is such a question. The objections are in and on their own, they. The social aspect of this is the simple problem that if you don't have a place to live, it's also hard to send people to home reconciliation. It is important to focus on the work we are doing, that we have a housing strategy that requires all people to be offered a permanent dwelling at the moment they leave the prison. This is something that requires good work between the criminal services and the municipalities to put this in place as a seamless transition that makes people actually have a home to come to, and that makes it possible to zone. The second part of this is to turn the home into a place of reconciliation. I see that it is possible to object to it. I believe, however, that the positive aspects of ensuring that young offenders have the opportunity to make a gradual transition are important, namely, how they fare when they get out at the other end, when they're going back to society. That's what most means to us, and that makes us do this as a trial project. Finally, I would just like to say to the representative of the Progress Party, who said that they read daily in the newspapers headlines about people who commit crime while they are on trial: if she can bring me newspaper articles for a year, I will spank a better dinner at her in the city.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e669	The centre part of the game is occupied with the quickest possible resolution of the rescue queues. Atonement cows weaken their preventive action, thus costing society considerable resources. Not only do we need to build up capacity in prisons, we also need to increase the use of community sanctions and look at other forms of criminal enforcement. Not least, there is a need to look at each and every aspect of the individual son, in order to prevent the first-time criminals from coming together with hardcore repeaters, and thus becoming repeaters themselves. In addition, it is quite right for the case-speaker to say that long pay queues weaken confidence in the criminal system and the criminal policy. The reconciliation queue is on its way down today. There is a sign that action is taking. The new measures that are coming will strengthen these developments. The zoning content is decisive for the rate of relapse. The central party will praise the Council of State for his focus on education in prison. Crime prevention is not just about punishment, but also about rehabilitation. So it doesn't help us just building several closed places in prison, we also have to have multiple thoughts in our head at the same time. Increasing focus on community punishment or combination of community punishment and prison is, in the view of the Centre Party, the right way to go, not just for reducing prison cows, but for too many there may be a suitable way to punish them. It is important to stress that prison sentences must be the first part of the sentence period in those cases where a prison is combined with community prisons. The case spokesperson held a good post and was in many parts of the proposition that I did not expect to go deeper into because of a short time, but I want to signal that I am joining in on what the representative Hegø did well for is the Workers' Party and SV's view on the matter. Finally, the most important work is not by building new prisons. This work takes place around the community, in the prevention work that we are trying to do by creating good child protection, by creating a good education system where everyone has equal opportunities regardless of social background, through good integration work, and by creating safe and good growth conditions. So it's in the community that they can best fight back, but it's a long time before they go to the police archives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e684	It is always in politics a time for unity and a time for disagreement. First of all, there has been a long consensus in the United Kingdom that we should do what we can to ensure that young people do not end up in prison, both through good cooperation across agencies and through local administrations. A series of projects have been launched in the past and carried on by the current government. It has also been widely agreed that it is very important that we avoid repeaters, through education, through good cooperation with Aeat, social services, etc. I used to come from the pulpit at Stortinget, for example. those prisoners’ organisations that have contributed to it. I have also mentioned types of organisation such as the BARM Center on Hamar, which has acted as a contact point to ensure that it becomes a network, so that there is no relapse. There has also been broad agreement on the active use of community sanctions, with the exception of the Progress Party, which has consistently had a more restrictive line than all others. The fact that the use of community sanctions has grown is very positive. There has also been a broad consensus that in Norway it is wise to use open settlements, when you have made an individual assessment of them that I would call ‘may be there’, and the small group in Norwegian prisons that I don’t call the tough guys, but that I call the stupid guys. We've had examples that they fool boys in open court have driven and organized crime in open court. On these conditions there is broad consensus. It has also been agreed that use should be made of the option offered by Section 12, the use of treatment institutions, for example: in the care of the drug, to give people a chance. There has also been a broad consensus, fortunately, about using drug programmes with judicial control, from which experience will be gained before proceeding. This is also agreed by the Left for its part. All these conditions are in this position, and it is positive that they are there. There has also been a willingness to do what this document deals with, to use Section 16 of the Penal Code in an active way. This is the scale. Then comes the critical comments of the Left. They start this way: I find that after a round of spontaneous questions between the Council of State and me, where I perceived that he defined removing the temporary early release measures as part of removing the reconciliation queue, there is a certain adjustment in this document, in the sense that these should be removed after the end of the queue. Of course, then you get a smaller queue. I have to make it clear that the Left has always defined, both in this period and in the past, the temporary measures so that those who release five days, ten days or twenty days before time are part of the queue. And removing them we've defined as part of the queue. We have also been deeply concerned that we have had an increase in the breach of the self-imposed strict rule we have in Norway that you should not sit too long on smooth cell. I point out that a few years ago when the payroll was actually larger than now, it was possible to get those breaks down. After I first want to commend the Council of State for having made a very large selection of open settlements, and also commend him for the measures I have now mentioned, I think there is a real problem in terms of custody, in terms of long prison sentences that we have wanted, for example. in the fight against behindrs in organised crime, and it is a real problem that we have too few closed places – next to everything we are widely agreed on. And it's a fact that what this government did, and especially the Council of State, which with great boldness almost stood with the spade in hand before the election, was to dig, or put out for a closer part of eternity, the plans to build a prison in the Inner Salt with 100-125 places. So that doesn't give you what's going to happen, and the left is deeply concerned that we're getting an increasing number of fractures on the smooth cell cone. I don't think it's possible to let it pass, because we can't be aware that we have such a situation. Then it's also like I've been and I'm an opponent of – and I'm glad that the whole opposition is all about it – turning people's homes into prison. I am opposed to privatizing punishment, and I am opposed to the class justice you can get as a result of this, because not everyone has a home. I am also opposed to believing that an electronic link will lead to rehabilitation. Based on my life experience, warm and clear people and warm hands can lead to rehabilitation, not an electronic link. Besides, it has a certain cost, and I'd like to see if that cost exceeds what it will cost to use an intelligent institution, which we have, or an open excuse. So I feel like you're crossing the limit here to bring down the reconciliation queue. I see, unlike the representative Syversen, that this is an active measure to bring down the reconciliation queue, and to put it this way, the home is not a place to use for reconciliation. These critical comments, which I have made clear, lead to the Left, to sum up finally, voting in favour of proposal No. One, two, six. We will vote against the second paragraph of Section 16, which is just about the possibility of electronic home soning.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e706	I'm very proud of the efforts that people in criminal care have made during the year and a half that I've had the pleasure of being the Council of State. It's quite obvious that now there's a huge amount of work going on in criminal care to bring down the atoning cows. I have to say that I am reacting somewhat to the representative Aspaker, but also to the representative Horne, and their input to this debate, where we list last week's media essays and think about it, whether it be psychiatric patients or drugs in prison, on which we had a case on Friday. The representative Aspaker summarises that measures ‘sound bad in the ears of people’. It shall also be such that home sonarisation by electronic surveillance violates key principles of justice by reviewing the courts. I think that is argument that can't hold, all the time in the same document, among other things. suggests that we consider the issue of student collectives. What kind of sovereignty do the courts have if we're going to move prisoners from prison to a student collective? I think the idea is good, but when one argues in whole Regeringa's proposal with the sovereignty of the courts, I have to say I react to it. At the same time, it is important to have more compensation at home using Section 16 – not electronic monitoring, but to use the home as a place of settlement. It is the dwelling that is largely the subject of Section 16. Where are the principles of home reconciliation, of making home a place of atonement, then? Where is the principle of the sovereignty of the courts at that moment? I believe that the debate on queues is important. It's a challenge that we've been faced with. I think it deserves a different approach than what is shown. The reconciliation queues have shown incredible resistance, despite repeated attempts to combat this phenomenon. From the first registrations in the early 1980s, changing governments have spent considerable resources on gender degradation. The last government failed at all with this work. Then you moved up towards a queue of 3,000 judges. Now it's like establishing a number of new places. In 2006-2007, 316 new sites, some closed and many open sites shall be established. It helps the queue to get down. The job is about to be done. The spade's in the ground. In the case of the cry for more closed places, I just have to point out what the government is up to, and was treated in the Stortinget earlier today, that we are now going to start with Halden prison. We have already granted money in the current year, a significant amount. We didn't see that from the last government. Here we have a good conscience. We definitely mean that we're on the right track. Now that we are arguing with concerns about the issue of advanced release, I have to say that I think is reasonably special. We use the same rules as the previous government. The fact that you get the volume up is primarily due to the fact that you get more prisoners into Norwegian prisons because we've got more places. Then you're suddenly opposed when you're in opposition. We stand by what the previous government introduced as an important tool to bring down the queue. I believe that one of the first things we should do when the queue is gone – we have said that all along – is to remove the duplication, especially on the island of Åna. The second thing we're going to do is we're going to remove the forward release. I have to say that there is reason to react to some of the incidents of the argument from the opposition. The work on sex is well under way. The queue has already been reduced by over 500 judges since the New Year, and was June 1st of 1963. The introduction of new places and legislative changes are the grips that need to be taken. These grips are important for building down the nesting queues and improving the content of the soning. I've stuck to it. It is possible to build down this queue, while strengthening its content. What we do about education is one example. What we do to get more progress in soning, so that people start learning while they're at an open school or in a transitional home, is incredibly important. What we do with regard to § 16 and home reconciliation to give people an opportunity to progress are at the same time measures that will help raise the content of soning. Therefore, all these measures are in line with the Government's plan to wind up the queue, which we promoted last year, in 2006. We've held the race, and we see the results. I think we can divide the work of reducing the pay queue into two phases. In the first phase, which started in 2006, it was important to set up sufficient new prison sites, to continue temporary capacity management measures and to have maximum capacity utilisation in prisons. That is why we made a significant contribution to criminal justice in 2006 and 2007. A total of 248 new prison sites were decided in 2006, including 150 places at Bjørgvin and Bruvoll prisons, as temporary stowage measures. They're doing a great job. This year we are establishing 68 new places, a total of 316. We now see the possibility of being able to experience being the government that has built down the reconciliation queues, if these forecasts stay forward, and we can keep the same pressure that we've done. If we can achieve this objective, it is important to have a phase two in the queue, focusing on actions that can provide lasting and flexible solutions to the challenges of criminal justice. A very central measure in this regard is the construction of Halden Prison, which I mentioned instead. The government will think alternately, recognizing that prison is not always the best solution. It appears that it is almost produced as a provocation, in particular from the Right and Advance Party. 60-70 pst. Of those in Norwegian prisons, other types of services are needed. The previous government launched a very good offer with the Judiciary-led drug programme. It breaks to a great extent with much of the thinking about criminal care – healthy! You're gonna have to have a honeymoon for that. That gives hope. It gives you new possibilities. But there was a completely different argument and justification in what the previous government actually initiated, than what we now hear from the Right Party and the Advance Party. I would recommend looking back in history and looking at what was actually thinking about their own criminal policy in the past. Return to the previous criminal health message and look at who proposed home soning with electronic control. The right-wing and the right-wing parties promoted these proposals. They had their own suggestions on that. Other parties had it too. Some of their criminal policies were thought of developing this further, giving people opportunities for work, education and better health services, while at the same time having a progress and a bright spot in soning. I'm not very impressed that you're doing what you're doing from the Right and the Advance Party. It is in many ways only to raise concerns about important development factors in criminal justice. I want to invite you to continue to join in on the important virtue of building down the reconciliation queue, while strengthening the content of the soning. It's also not the way it's said that we're getting new cows for community punishment. Where did it come from? Last June, the line was for the community sentence of 306 judges. It's pretty small. But it got the government to intervene and to grant extra resources to free care, which has resulted in that queue today being 108 judges. It's not a line going up. It's a queue that goes down considerably. Now, when we want to initiate more use of community punishment, it's because we believe that the device will handle it as well. Of course, we also focus on the budgetary situation in the care sector next year, which we will come back to. What's amazing about the development of social punishment, and for which more governments are to have the credit, and which fortunately many parties dare to stand by when it's really the case, is that it's a form of punishment far more than other forms of reaction have much less relapse than what we see, for example. for those who are released from prison. It's natural. For many of them, it's obviously about less serious relationships, but the relapse is so small in relation to what we see otherwise, that there's reason to stop and see the social penalty as an effective form of punishment that helps people get into work, get into a different path of life and actually commit fewer criminal acts. It's amazing if you can manage to build up this queue by creating more humanity, more humanity towards those who are going to face a criminal reaction, more reason, more opportunities to get into a different path in life – actually also more security and less crime. There is no willingness of the government to compromise on any slight media look-up when it comes to putting such an important criminal reform into life as it actually is. So I will continue to invite in particular the Right Party and the Advance Party to think about the good actions that are now being proposed and to continue this important fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e734	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e737	It's always interesting to listen when the learners talk. With regard to the increase in the social penalty and the queue there, I'm actually sure to remember that it was in the budget proposal, but I assume that the Council of State can possibly cancel it here and now, and we can both check it afterwards for security reasons. What I'm really going to ask the Council of States is going on home-sonation. The committee very much agrees with much of what came out here, but there is disagreement in the use of home soning. For the Progress Party, perhaps a part of the heavy institutions that recorded this might have been listened to, be the Police Joint Union, the NFF or other actors. Not least the lawyer, I think, has a central role to play. I point out that the Riksadvokat is extremely sceptical about and opposed to the introduction of a system of home soning and electronic surveillance. Then my question to the Council of State is quite simply: Where is the Riksadvokat wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e746	When you get hearings, we have to listen to them. But I am convinced that most hearing bodies will be satisfied with the proposal that the government has made, in particular to limit the home-sonance for those judgments that are less than 4 months old, or where you have 4 months left of the settlement. It was probably also in the middle of the core area when the Progress Party in 1998 proposed the following: ‘The decision asks the Government to set up a test scheme with house arrest/home soning controlled by electronic devices, as an alternative to conditional punishment.’ It was probably just as relevant in 1998 to argue that this could make the home a place of reconciliation, and to some extent also other fundamental considerations. I would also like to point out that experience has been gained in other countries. This is a form of reconciliation that other countries are now trying with luck, for example. Sweden and several other European countries, so we believe here to have good experience that most consultancies on reading also have to be satisfied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e765	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government stresses the need for effective individual plans for individuals, and we agree that this is important. However, both in the field of free care and criminal care, there are many examples of prisoners getting no or blank individual plans. Prison management rejects contact with support groups outside the walls, and little or no follow-up is made to the fact that the requirements of the individual plans are actually being followed up. What is the background to the fact that government parties – including SV, who also had the relatively high and dark, by the representative Holmås here – do not support demands for an evaluation, and not least research-based efforts to look at the impact of training already in prison? Because it's actually like a lot of people have big problems. For example, with ADHD, they have special learning problems. Why is it that we do not agree to investigate and evaluate the arrangements already in place to achieve more effective atonement content, which has actually been highlighted in the Soria Moria Declaration?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e772	The government agrees with the Right that it is important now to evaluate several types of reactions and insofar as criminal law processes are concerned. In terms of social sanctions, we have some evaluation. Progress in housing, questions about the impact of education will be particularly topical. We have chosen to draw much of the attention to the work on the criminal services message coming next year, just in the direction of this. We don't depend on a decision in Stortinget to do the job, but we'll probably see it a little wider than what the Right now does in its proposal. I think it's important, and I think it's also important that we look at how we might be able to make these individual plans better. At the same time, I would like to say that the proposal that the Right promotes about student collectives is a proposal that we will include in the reporting work. It's not sure we want to limit it to just student collectives, it could be other forms as well, which makes it difficult for us to give positive support to this proposal now. But these are good suggestions that we are going to take with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e779	First of all, for the sake of order: it has never been in the thinking of the Left, either now or before, that § 16 should apply in the owner-occupied dwelling. We've linked it to the second activity, and I don't have time to elaborate on this. I'm aware that the department has defined it this way. The left has not done so, and I have not done so as the Council of State. I know my own thoughts in this area, and I know my party's thoughts. If others have done that, it'll be up to them to stand for it. But it was just to sign out that position, so that it should be noted in the hall. All these measures are implemented, and some of them are very widely agreed on. Others disagree – I won't repeat it. The great concern of the left is that we break the self-imposed smooth cell nail. So my question to the Council of State is what he wants to do to bring down the number of fractures on this smooth cell cone, so that you don't sit on smooth cell as much over time – which we unfortunately have now got an increase in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e788	I find it difficult to see Section 16 applied in particular areas other than the owner-occupied dwelling. We have Section 12 for transfer to e.g. Russin institution, etc., but § 16 is everything presumptuous, as I have seen it, was used to just take up residence in owner-occupied dwellings when you are released after half an hour. Now we make the terms easier, and I learn that the Left, Right and Advance Party support it. I'll be clear that you have other thoughts in your head, but practice I think is reasonably clear on that. When it comes to the issue of isolation, I think one of the best assumptions for going into zero is to downgrade the reconciliation queue. There I see that we have a logistical challenge in the sense that there is now a pressing situation in criminal matters. That's why we've been working towards the summer – we did it before the Easter break – to try to avoid getting into such situations. But there we have to have better pressure, because that number has to go down. As far as I remember, the figure is also going down relative to the comparable size last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e795	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e798	There has been a good debate, an interesting debate, with a certain breadth. What we're discussing is kind of a disagreement, and it might be a good idea, because that's where the policy is. At the same time, I think we should also take on board that even in this setting, the committee actually agrees on a lot of things. But there are, of course, shades in this, and the discussion about the reconciliation queue is not a new debate. It's been there before, and there's, of course, a lot of ways to solve this problem. You could remove part of the law, do fewer things criminal, you could go into an amnesty system and make changes to the law there. There's a lot of possibilities, but here the Council of State and the Government have done a discussion of their ways, and that's kind of okay. I have previously said that the Minister of Justice is the best friend of the criminals, and I would like to confirm that I still believe that. In this way, I would say that the main competitor of the Minister of Justice is a role figure that occurs in December, usually on 24th, when he spreads around with his gifts – just as I think the Council of State is doing here. At the same time, the Council of State and the Government are troubling all the victims of crime in this country, by providing only relief for the criminals – at the expense of the victims. You could say that it gives a greater degree of rehabilitation and normality to let them out again. But there's a reason people actually get convicted in this country. Every time you reduce the consequences for those who are in prison, you do something to those who are victims of crime. Then we've heard the Council of State and others say that the projected parole does not constitute anything special. It's possible that 150 years is not something special for this government. It once again shows a great sense to the criminals who, at my discretion, are only part of and trample on those who are victims of crime. But as long as it's a wild policy, it at least clarifies the differences in position and opposition, and that might be good in many contexts. So to what's going on at home. Yes, I note that in 1998, the Progress Party had a proposal for, among others. house arrest. It is also a fact that the Progress Party per. Today is not on the same track as one did. Then, of course, someone can accuse us of changing the policy – and we may have done so – but per. Today, we don't want a regime where you spend your home at a place to settle for crime you're actually convicted of. The home is for us something different in this setting than that it should be used for atonement. It will also be on, as I see it at least, to downgrade the severity of crime, which will be bad. I think the solution is to have a width of the measures. We've discussed that before, and we'll do that again. That's why we have Section 12, Social Penalty, Promille Programme and Judicial Drug Programme. We have a wide range of measures, and we need that to deal with the inequalities of those who are going through a criminal execution. But at the same time, there must be no doubt that the most important thing is that we have enough closed spaces, when we have people we know would benefit from having a closed space, and they are sent out to free up capacity. Sorry, we're out to drive. For me, it is a strange thing that the high-risk department in Ringerijk is standing unused. If that's the case with those we know who are convicted in this country, that none of them are so dangerous that they need to sit there, yes, then I'm surprised. In any case, I received feedback last week that the department is unused. So maybe the Council of State can cancel or confirm if that's the case, if he wants to. At least my information is that there is no one there per. today. Again, of course, we should support the Council of State and the Government and the majority here in relation to what we have discussed earlier today in the field of foraging and expanding prisons in Halden. We think that's a necessity. I am also disappointed that you have, as the representative of Dørum was inside, moved and distanced yourself very much in relation to the Inner Salt. I saw a new theme coming up now that there was a bad reason there that made this difficult. I think that's strange, because it's built high school, it's built workshops, it's built a lot of businesses up there, and I haven't realized that it's been a problem. But that's it now. I think it would be better if the Council of State were looking for their spade, which he requested from former Minister of Justice Dørum. But it may be that the Council of State needs a new spade to put it in the ground up there and do what he actually said he should do, during a previous election campaign. Then I have to be allowed to make it clear that when it comes to the vote, the Progress Party will also vote against the new Section 16, second paragraph. If we don't, it'll be inconsistent with what we've written in our notes. So I just want to make it clear that we're voting against this. Finally, it was also interesting to listen to the representative Holmås. I record that SV also has competence and opinions in criminal policy, and I record that one of Norway's most famous criminals consistently votes SV because he thinks they have the best justice policy. To think!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e825	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e828	I have to say that the opposition's attack on our ability to act and implement in removing the reconciliation queue and strengthening the content of criminal care appears unprovable. We are now making a promise that the previous government – not with the support of the Advance Party – was nearing us. As others have said, we are about to place 316 new places; we have just adopted – a few hours ago – the forced development of Halden Prison, we have put in place a training offer in all prisons during 2007, we have increased the funds for health and culture, and we have strengthened the provision of free care – a promise that has not been made before. And if there's something that strengthens people's sense of justice, it's that you produce results in terms of fighting crime, in terms of strengthening the content of the atonement, and not least in terms of removing the atoning cows. If there's something that's weakened people's sense of justice, it's the long, long reconciliation queues that we've had here in the country, and that the previous government has shown no willingness to take hold of. I note that the Right criticises us for having increased the use of advanced parole, a system that was thus introduced by the previous government because they did not have the power to implement the promise that the current government is now in the process of removing the reconciliation queues. I can assure Right that on the day we have removed the cows, we will also remove the system of advanced parole. So, the right has zero credibility with its attack on our criminal welfare policy. Then I will dare to make the claim that we will have a more dangerous society with the policies of the Progress Party. I registered that the representative Horne, for example. argued against transfer from closed to open locations. What kind of society do we get if we have a criminal code where we don't have progress in the settlement? We're going to have a very, very dangerous society, because we're going to get on the street a lot of lawbreakers who aren't prepared to meet society, who haven't been trained to meet society, who don't have work training, who don't have housing. It'll be a dangerous society. I have to tell the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen that the execution of a punishment that works is not to devalue the seriousness of crime. That's the opposite: it's taking crime seriously. And also in relation to free care, which the Progress Party argues against: we know that the number of relapses is much lower in the case of people who have served in free care than people who have been in the ordinary care. That's why it's something we'll still bet heavily on. We're concerned with a policy that works. Our policies work. The policy of the Right and the Progressive Party did not work in the last period, and it continues to work against its purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e847	It is late in the evening, and I hear people who have the floor raise their voices. I don't know if it's in lack of good enough arguments. That's the kind of thing that happens. It was just to be lacking that the Council of State should not stand up here and defend its own proposals. But I'm happy to meet someone – and I've asked a lot of people – who think that home reconciliation is a good idea. I have also not received any good explanation here today from the Council of State as to why, in that case, the courts would not decide whether domestic soning can be used when it is a question of the full execution of the sentence as a domestic soning, but that it is now to be left to the criminal authorities to decide. I have also not heard the Council of State reply to the discriminatory domestic soning going to lead to, when it actually assumes that whoever is going to zone has a home to zone in. There are quite a number of people in this country who are in prison, who are not in a situation where they have a home on the day they come out of restitution. I do not understand that there is a red-green government that is going to add up to such a project based on such discriminatory assumptions. The representative Heikki Holmås made it a point that he was not a member of the Judicial Committee, and could not see the connection between on the one hand going against domestic reconciliation and on the other hand proposing a student collective for jurisdictions of appropriate age. In fact, I believe there is a broad consensus in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the European Parliament that the youngest offenders and the first-time criminals should be treated differently from the duly executed offenders and those who have really serious crimes on their criminal record. When we propose this collective, it is part of the process of getting a larger menu of more and different measures to adapt to, among other things. The youngest lawbreakers, so that we can give them an offer that hopefully will help us rehabilitate them out of the lawless life and back on track. Then I also want to challenge the Council of State on the care situation, which is very difficult. The police are constantly saying that they are in the election to blow up all the budgets and find a safe house. We're talking about closed spaces. I do not see that this matter has any solution to it at all. So that's what I'm calling for. The representative Bjørnflaten made a mistake in her conclusion when she claimed that earlier today we had ‘enforced the expansion of Halden prison’. In fact, the prison is now about to be completed half a year later than the assumption was. And finally, I just want to challenge the Council of State again to respond to the incident at Ila last: Is it correct that the health service in Norwegian prisons distributes syringes to the employees? - For the prisoners, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e864	It could be tempting to ask the Council of State to answer both of the two references! In the light of the debate, I would like to clarify something related to Section 16 of the Criminal Enforcement Act, i.e. the one that allows the Criminal Service to transfer prisoners to continued criminal execution outside prison, as opposed to the Government's proposal on criminal execution with electronic control. It is almost obvious that Section 16 on the implementation of criminal sanctions outside prison should also be in favour of the implementation of criminal sanctions by electronic means. On the part of the Christian People's Party, I would just like to point out that in the case of Section 16, i.e. punishment outside prison, there are a number of criteria attached to it in the law: the transfer should be «necessary» – that is what we are changing a little now – and «appropriate» in order to promote a further «special» positive development with a view to countering new crime. Prisoners are required to have a particularly positive development during their implementation. He/she is required to have converted in action to do something about his/her life situation by participating in a programme or other action specifically aimed at changing behaviour and behaviour with a view to a law-abiding life. When it comes to the implementation of criminal sanctions by electronic means, the proposal here is that it can replace the entire prison sentence, provided that the sentence is at a low level. I also notice that in the proposal that the Ministry of Justice had in the hearing, one went so far as to suggest that it should be relevant to use this as a caretaker surrogate. It has not been promoted in the proposition, but it tells me that the government too well sees that there are some fundamental considerations related to this with home-soning that may not have been fully reflected in the articles that have been before today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e875	When I hear the committee leader, I think maybe it's okay for both one and the other that it's soon to be a vacation. I almost felt that the weather cover was in the air, to say it carefully. That holiday can give both one and the other the opportunity to give some thought to the representative Sande’s really important words in order to prevent some ports from being outside and to become more likely to become the responsibility of the future Judicial Committee. It is important that we: psychiatry and rehabilitation, not kittens, the plans that should have been presented last year on child protection, do not continue the crisis in child protection that we are currently acquiring knowledge of the school, so that we can have knowledge in school, so that people do not fall outside. One out of five can't read and write properly, and there's a great probability of falling outside when one doesn't master the most necessary, one looks like actually having to commit criminal acts in order to have some sort of status I think there are three points that can follow up the representative's important words. I recommend the committee leader to take them as a little summer greeting and think a little bit about them, and think about how you can help to do something about the problems with the future possible criminals, who are at risk of becoming so because of a lack of bet in the three areas such as: The representative Sande was very concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e898	Now, let's make it clear that the reconciliation line is going down, it's positive. And now let no one in his eagerness to create political contradictions almost portray it as that, for the previous government, almost nothing happened. It's almost like Jesus came to earth when the new one came. There were more than 400 settlements. The reconciliation queue sank, and then it rose abruptly, and it rose abruptly as a result of a total increase wanting to be tougher against the backmen in drug cases, filling up prisons and being tougher with care. That it sinks again, is positive. There's no one that can be anything against it. But the previous government had the strategy of having a prison in both Halden and Salten, because you felt you needed more closed places. It does not conflict with a flexible, humane policy that we have outlined in relation to social sanctions, turning young people early, etc. I would like to repeat that when I think about Section 16, it is just the end of the compensation to get into a structured relationship, which is not an institution, but it could, for example, be. be a job. We discussed issues such as: something that we called green reconciliation, that is, we're making it easy for businesses that could be structured and promoting in many ways, but we never were able to develop it. So when someone thinks it's a dwelling, you'd have to believe it for me. I don't mean that, it doesn't mean the Left. So to the situation we're in. I believe that when there is a pressured care situation – and we know that very well – and there will be a break on this with smooth cells, it is of course because there are too few closed spaces at the disposal. Some of that's probably true, as the Council of State says, it's about logistics -- I accept it. I think there's something you can pick up. But it's not just that, because the police are going to be effective in many areas, we see that from the statistics. We know that we all agree that we should go for new forms of crime. These new forms of crime are often covered in custody, for example: settlement against gangs in Oslo, strict judges, backers in drug matters. It's just counting the number of prison places this is covering, so we know it's pressing custody. It is in this context — not rather, but in addition to all the excellent things that lie in thinking individually, positive, social punishment, the wise use of § 16, etc. – that the Left has arranged for us to need more closed spaces. That's why we also need to use that word around Salten Prison. So I don't think you get away from it, and that's not because you're not going to do all the other wise things, but because you can't do it without it. Then there has been a certain gliding flight. In an earlier Question Time, the Council agreed with me that removing early release was to remove the queue. Now it's defined as happening after the queue's gone. And then you get an easier situation, but that's a change in definition. But it doesn't change that we need to avoid being able to meet the requirement of care, and that doesn't change the need to avoid breaking the smooth cell ban that you have imposed. An answer to this is more closed places before the Halden prison is completed in 2010. It's Left's opinion – it's been before, and it's still here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e909	Luckily, it seems that what you are voting for in the case of Section 16 goes up for the opposition. There is no stay in the workplace – we must agree on that. When it comes to living outside prison, it's mainly housing we're talking about. There I thought the representative Syversen actually argued pure-haired – it was about what kind of criteria underlie it. It's a fair debate. But now, when you go in order to extend the scope of Section 16, which is really and predominantly home reconciliation, it's not related to the other arguments. Then to the representative Ellingen, who was concerned about the victims. This has become a repeated argument from the Progress Party: Every time you do something that is different in criminal matters, a victim is violated. But it is really not to take the victims seriously to be so automatic in relation to the victims' perception of crime and the reaction to crime. What are the victims asking for? Well, they're asking for a quick response, first it's going to be solved, but then people are going into reconciliation and not going out into society. So the victims are just asking that we get rid of this reconciliation queue. The second thing that the victims are very concerned about, is that the reaction that is being put into action seems, so that there are no new victims. That's the main thing, that's what we hear. So this constant repetition of all the changes in criminal custody is a violation of the victim, the government doesn't believe in. We simply believe that victims of crime are very conscious of the fact that they are in the process of ending the reconciliation queue and of being able to react in a way that helps to reduce crime. Then I must also make some comments to the representative Aspaker, who is concerned about discrimination between those who have housing and those who do not have housing. As the representative Holmås was in on, we are now doing good work to secure people's housing. We're also doing that under criminal law, and it's going to be important. But if one were to argue as Aspaker does in relation to discrimination, there would not have been a lot of suggestions in terms of criminal law. In that case, we could not have a drug programme with judicial control, which was initiated by the Right in the previous period. It only works in Oslo and Bergen. It's a very discriminatory thing that they from Elverum can't take part in it, so to speak. If that were the case, we probably couldn't decide to establish a student collective, as the Right now suggests. For what about those who don't have a place to study, those who don't study? What kind of discrimination is that? Some social benefits are included, you should be allowed to live in a collective. So I will continue to encourage in particular the Right Party and the Advance Party to go a little deeper into this and look at what the reality actually is, instead of making a skin debate about what you can gather about here, in relation to the question of what works. In the case of parking places, I believe that winding up the queue is absolutely essential. What you do in Halden by establishing several places is what will also make it possible that once we have closed the reconciliation queue, we will not have a breach of the 24-hour rule either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e924	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 732]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e940	I'm glad that a total odelsting and laying is likely to support the Government's proposal to reduce the fees for passports for children. Today it costs 420 kroner for a passport for children under 16. If the child is under five years of age, he has completed a period of validity of two years. For children from five to ten years of age, a period of validity of three years has been completed, and passports for children from 10 to 16 years of age have a period of validity of five years. Both the high fee and not least the validity requirements lead to an increase in the cost of passports for some families of children, and the consequence may be that some have reduced opportunities to travel abroad. It was the Bondevik II government that in its time introduced the high increases when, among other things, the passport fee is applicable. Reduction in passport fees for children is one of many important measures in the government’s efforts to eradicate poverty in Norway. The fee for children's passports will be reduced by this decision to NOK 270, i.e. a reduction of NOK 150. The change is also part of the adaptation to the work of the Government that the fees shall not exceed the country’s production costs for the service in question. The government's proposal meant that the law was to come into force from 29 June this year. I am pleased that the Labour Party and the SV in the Committee have received support for the amendment to come into force from 15 June. For us, it was important that the reduction in passport fees could come as early as possible, before the large holiday trip started, so that the change could benefit the maximum number of families with children. It is therefore recommended that the amendment should enter into force from 15 June.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e955	This is a nice summer gift to the small children's families, so the Advance Party is very happy that the Government is promoting this proposal today. However, a passport is a document for which Norwegian citizens are entitled, and for the Progress Party it has been important that a passport should be for self-sufficiency. Therefore, I would just like to say briefly, and encourage the Government, that when we receive the 2008 budget proposal, proposals for a reduced price also need to be made in relation to adult passports, so that we can fit here in Norway for our own consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e962	I'm just going to respond briefly to the challenge that came to the Government regarding other fees. I will not foreshadow future budgetary procedures, but there is no doubt that the government has put a lot of effort into doing these steps in terms of fees, and getting down to self-sufficiency – and actually delivering according to this. I think the proposal that is now adopted after all the sun tags is a very good example of it, starting in the small, literally, and looking at the job that's behind it, to calculate the actual costs here. I also ask Odelstinget to notice that this is a follow-up to much of the idea that was served in the budget for the current year, where we significantly reduced the fees for outlays, which is a good poverty measure as well, and which had a high proceeds of many millions of dollars. Now we're going to take the next step, and at least I'm going to promise the representative Horne and her colleagues from the Progress Party that this is something the Government is going to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e971	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 735]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e987	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 735]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e1000	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e1637	It will first be contested by New Section 5a under I. The Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left have warned that they want to vote against the option.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e1653	It's going to be over the rest of I, and then II even VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e1663	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e1673	The Law Decision is sent to the Creation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e1801	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e1811	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e1819	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Advance Party and Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2193	The rapporteur has noted two errors – § 52(b) and (e). For both paragraphs, the third paragraph shall be part of the second paragraph. It is first contested by §§ 1–52(c). The Christian People's Party has warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2210	So it's going to go over the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 52d. The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2224	We're going to vote for the first paragraph of Section 63. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2238	The rest of the I and the II and the III are going to add up. The Christian People's Party has warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2252	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The Christian People's Party has warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2267	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2275	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposed no. 1-3, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 4 and 5, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 6, from Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of Right
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2461	Paragraph 28a, sixth paragraph, point (b) under I, contains an alternative proposal, No. 4, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Paragraph 28a, sixth paragraph, point (b) of the Penal Code is repealed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2477	The remainder of I, II and III § 6, second paragraph, first sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2487	To Section 16, first paragraph, first sentence under III, there is an alternative proposal, No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 16 of the Penal Code shall be replaced by the following:If it is considered to be sound in the interests of the security of the family and society around it and is appropriate to ensure continued particularly positive development and to counteract new crime, criminal services may transfer convictions for the execution of the sentence outside prison with special conditions when half of the criminal period has been completed.’ The left has indicated that they support the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2509	There will be a vote over Section III of Section 16 of the second paragraph. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2523	It's going to be over the rest of the II and IV and V.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2533	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2543	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2581	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2591	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2693	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2703	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-11-lower.ana.ud776e2783	Thus, the matters on today's map are handled.
