ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e41	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Ågot Valle. – Other proposals are not available, and Ågot Valle is considered unanimously elected president of the Odelstinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e51	The representative Ib Thomsen will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e54	On behalf of the representatives of Ulf Leirstein, Gjermund Hagesetter, Per-Willy Amundsen and myself, I would like to present a proposal for a representative to abolish the law on property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e59	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e73	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e82	First, I would just like to point out that the Committee received a letter from the Ministry of Transport, dated 27 February, requesting the correction of the legal text in the proposal submitted, and that it has been done. Today, we are laying the groundwork for greater rights for air passengers and for all airlines flying in Norway to grant equal rights to all passengers. In an era of increasing competition in aviation, it is important to have a control system that captures and punishes possible breaches of passenger rights. The Norwegians fly more than anyone else, and we live in a country with a lot of weather, resulting in delays and cancellations. It is important that passengers are aware of their rights and when rights can be used. In an age of increasing focus on aviation safety and stricter control regimes, it is important that not only air carriers are lurking but also the airport authorities. We had a debate earlier today about Avinor. Therefore, clear information to passengers about who is responsible for the different parts of the flight from check-in to baggage collection becomes important. It has been pointed out before today that there is a need for a new luggage system on the Gardermoen. I used – my own experience – three blocks on a flight from Trondheim to Oslo, and waited 50 minutes for the luggage. It's too bad. And who is responsible? Are those the living rooms? Is that Avinor? Is that OSL? Or is that the airline? This I think it's important that people are aware of, so that they can take out their irritation on some. The Committee refers to the various EU Council Regulations on aviation, as mentioned in the proposal, with a view to strengthening passenger rights in aviation and subsequently in the other transport sector. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Government now wishes to incorporate this into the EEA Agreement. The government wants to go beyond our international obligations, and the committee supports this. The Committee considers that this will facilitate access to justice and strengthen rights for passengers. I find that air traffic is increasing, more and more airlines are competing, prices are falling, and the number of passengers is increasing. In such a situation, it is important to establish a regulatory framework that is predictable, effective and transparent for both airlines and air passengers. The Committee has noted that the Government proposes to give the Air Safety Authority responsibility for the oversight of passenger rights in the aviation sector. This applies to consumers, business travellers and passengers with special needs, such as: health transport. Air traffic control shall form part of an international network responsible for enforcing the collective rights of the brides in the EEA countries. The Committee supports this. Furthermore, the Committee took note of the proposal to establish a new appeal body for air passengers who consider that they have not received what they are entitled to from an air carrier or other service provider. The Committee welcomes the establishment of such an appeal body, in particular because it will include all airlines flying to and from Norway in such a scheme. This will remove the disadvantage that is felt today by the need to deal with two different complaints bodies. This ensures equal rights for passengers irrespective of the carrier they use and provides them with a level playing field. The Board of Appeal must be set up as an independent body, for which the Government agrees and for which the Committee supports – an independent body outside the administration. I would like to add that in the hearing we had, it was pointed out that today's complaint subject, which the hearing bodies thought should be subject to complaints in the future, also replied to enquiries from air passengers, and that they provided some kind of guidance on the rights of individual travellers. It is important when creating a new complaint subject that you do not get a mix of roles. There can be no doubt about the independence of the denominator. I expect the department to take note of this, and make sure that this will not be a problem when setting up the new complaint topic. The Committee considers it important that infringements of the rules on passenger rights be affected. In the proposal, a set of penalties is proposed which can be imposed. The Committee supports these sanctions and considers that it is important that a person has sanctions to follow up in order to safeguard passenger rights. The majority of the Committee has taken note of the fact that the proposal opens up the possibility of gradually considering the establishment of a common complaint subject for the whole transport sector. The majority support such a idea, and believe it would be important, even for travellers other than air passengers, to have one body of complaint. The majority therefore ask for this work to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e108	The rapporteur has explained in detail what this amendment of the law is. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to welcome this amendment. Passenger rights have often been a topical issue when problems have arisen with the closure of air traffic, and the Minister for Transport has been prominent among those who have asserted the rights of passengers. Now the Government will strengthen the rights and the appeal system will be made easier and more easily accessible to the complainant. The starting point is changes and planned changes to the EEA Agreement. But the government also chooses to go beyond the obligations, and I am very pleased about that. The change in the law we now want to give our consent will give passengers equal rights, regardless of which airline they travel with. No company can make a reservation. This will also make the conditions of competition more fair for airlines. So this is an advantage for both passengers and airlines. The proposal implies that passengers who do not receive what they are entitled to from the carrier may appeal to an independent body. In addition, the role of the Air Safety Authority is clarified, with the extended possibility to investigate cases and impose sanctions in the event of non-compliance. I would also like to highlight another interesting part of this matter. It is stipulated that the Board of Appeal may be extended to a general transport complaint, so that passengers travelling by train, bus and boat also receive a complaint body. It is important and will help to strengthen transport companies. I hope the work of taking a bus and a train and other means of transport into the system goes quickly. I am pleased that the Government is offensive and committed to passenger rights, and the Workers' Party fully supports the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e121	I would like to make a few brief comments from the Progress Party on a matter in which there is really a broad consensus. But first a little visit to the previous speaker, who can therefore imagine an overall complaint subject for the transport sector, but cannot imagine a supervision for the transport sector. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get The Party considers it appropriate and important to strengthen passenger rights in aviation. The Party considers it important that passenger rights be strengthened in all transport sectors. That is why the action is important, regardless of whether it comes through EU directives. The Progress Party supports the proposal. Arrangements are made for the national enforcement of air passengers’ rights that go beyond international obligations. This too supports the Progress Party. Good consumer rights and good customer rights are important to ensure a good balance between suppliers and customers in a well-functioning market of all types. Therefore, it is also important to establish effective supervisory arrangements with effective sanctioning options. The case also deals with air traffic services, which have been incorporated into the EEA Agreement following previous decisions in Stortinget, so that the sole provider of air traffic services and the sole provider of meteorological services can be designated. They have been designated. However, the EU Directive provides for services to be cost-based. It is then important that ‘some’ oversee costs in order to maintain cost-effective solutions. The Progress Party supports the proposal that the Air Safety Authority be given the task of overseeing both conditions – passenger rights and charging rules. Regulations of the Aviation Act also provide for the establishment of an air passenger complaint body. The Progress Party supports this. The Party wishes to see an overall appeal body for the transport sector, having regard to the fact that the Progress Party will expand passenger rights throughout the transport sector. We are promoting proposals to this effect together with proposals for a comprehensive organisation of transport, with a Ministry of Transport, a Transport Directorate and a Transport Inspectorate. Finally, we have noted the Ministry's own observation that a major review of the aviation law should be carried out. Aviation has been developing for many years, traffic growth is high, and product development and innovation in the industry are also high. Should the law keep up with this development, it should be revised, not just patched up. The Progress Party assumes that work on updating and updating the Aviation Act is initiated. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e138	The representative of Arne Sortevik has thus taken up the minority's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e141	The Christian People's Party supports strengthening the enforcement of air passengers' rights. The Christian People's Party agrees that new rules on passenger rights are included in the EEA Agreement and that Norway goes beyond what we are obliged to internationally, at those points it is deemed necessary to ensure effective enforcement of passenger rights. The Christian People's Party wants passengers to have easier access to justice and strengthened rights. As others have pointed out, we are in a situation where air traffic is increasing – more and more airlines are competing, prices are low and the number of passengers is increasing. There are many air passengers who complain or claim compensation either because they are relatively small sums, because the legislation is unclear and they are uncertain about their own rights, or because the airline is perceived as too big and too strong adversaries. There is at least reason to believe that there is a huge gap between the real and formal rights of passengers, between what they are entitled to and what they are actually receiving. Even greater is the challenge when the hard price competition causes tickets to be sold extremely cheaply and the quality to be lowered, without passengers knowing what quality they are buying and what they are entitled to. In such a situation, it is important to establish legislation and arrangements that are predictable, effective and transparent both for airlines and for air passengers. The Christian People’s Party supports the proposal that aviation oversight should have the general responsibility for overseeing passenger rights in the aviation sector. It is a clear advantage for passengers that they have only one supervisory body to deal with. In addition, it is wise that the role of supervisory authority implies the inclusion of aviation oversight in a new international network. This network is responsible for enforcing the collective rights of consumers in EEA countries. Furthermore, it is important that supervisory responsibilities apply to all travellers, including business travellers, patients and others. Air traffic control is a safety oversight and has little experience in the enforcement of consumer rights. However, provided that the supervision is provided with the means to follow up the new supervisory tasks, we have confidence that the responsibility is placed safely. Consumer authorities will probably also receive enquiries from dissatisfied air passengers in the future, and they will have a lot of knowledge of which companies do not follow up their passenger rights. It is therefore important that the dialogue and cooperation between supervision and the Consumer Council and the Ombudsman be good. The Christian People's Party supports the establishment of a new air passenger complaint body which considers that they have not received what they are entitled to from an airline or other service provider. The Christian People's Party believes that the creation of one collective complaint subject is positive, and hopes that the new arrangement will make it easier for the travellers. It is important that the new denominator deal with all types of cases, all types of complaints related to the flight. The Christian People's Party supports the establishment of the Board of Appeal as an independent body outside the administration and the establishment of a judicial appeal body so that companies cannot make reservations. It is important that infringements of the rules on passenger rights are affected. In the proposal, a set of penalties is proposed which can be imposed. The Christian People's Party also supports these sanctions. Moreover, in order to comply with the decisions, it is important that the names and decisions remain at a professional level respected by industry and passengers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e158	In connection with last year's actions, which led to major delays for air passengers, the Ministry of Transport immediately initiates the legislative work on which this matter is based. This shows the power of action of the Government in a matter that is important to users of air transport. In addition, it is now in accordance with EU Directive etc. implemented the normal compensation rules, the Government will establish a complaint subject to which all airlines will have to join. We in the Centre Party are pleased with the strengthening of the passenger rights to which this amendment refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e165	The last few years have been a good time for those who depend on flying, or who have not been able to afford to fly in the past. Competition has led to lower prices and more new routes. But increasing price competition also means that airlines have to reduce the cost of survival. This may affect passengers if they do not have clear rights which are respected by the airlines or which they themselves can enforce in a simple way that is proportionate to the size of the requirement. The government is very busy strengthening both passenger and appliance rights to enforce the rights. Firstly, a new complaint subject shall be created to which all passengers shall have the right to complain, irrespective of the airline with which they are flying. In addition to complaints against air carriers, the name shall be capable of handling complaints against aerodromes from, inter alia. passengers with reduced mobility. The aim is that the new denominator should be simple and quick to use for passengers who think they have not been given the right they are entitled to after the agreement or the legislation. The plan is that the denominator should publish their decisions on a private website, thus helping to clarify the rights of other passengers. The submission shall be capable of requiring a written justification from an air carrier that does not comply with a decision and shall be available for publication on the website. Secondly, the Government proposes to strengthen the public oversight of air carriers' compliance with passenger rights. The Air Safety Authority is identified as responsible for oversight and at the same time is given a knack of the instrument. Supervision shall be capable of imposing an order for the cessation or correction of illegal activities. And as a basis for such impositions, supervision shall be able to require information not only from airlines and aerodromes but also from travel agencies, package tour organisers and other ticket vendors. Furthermore, supervision shall be able to enforce the imposition by imposing a periodic penalty payment until the illegal practices are corrected. Finally, supervision shall be able to charge a fee — ‘infringement fee’ — when it becomes apparent in retrospect that passengers have not received what they are entitled to. The measurement of such a fee should be preventive and so that the airlines have to pay at least as much as the service they have had by not complying with the rules. At the same time, these new enforcement rules provide the basis for the Air Safety Authority to join a network of European enforcement bodies in the process of being established. If an air carrier from one EEA country conducts an illegal practice that is out of touch with passengers in another country, the enforcement agencies within that network shall ensure that a stop to illegal practices is put in place. Although the main objective of the legislative proposal is to strengthen passenger rights, it will indirectly also ensure fairer competition between airlines. Sharpening enforcement prevents some airlines from reducing their costs, and therefore win in price competition, because they do not give passengers what they are entitled to. In the fierce competition with foreign low-cost companies, this could be a premonition for Norwegian companies. I am pleased that the setting in question shows that there has been a broad consensus in the Committee on the understanding of the problems the bill seeks to avert, and the solutions proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e180	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 329]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e196	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e203	The law we're about to deal with here today is a whole new criminal order that criminalises the encounter of a child with intent on committing sexual assault. In the course of its work, the Committee has shown a good willingness to cooperate. It's also a unanimous committee behind the bill itself. The Committee considers that there is a need to provide children with increased protection against sexual abuse. The increased use of means of communication that have made children more vulnerable to abuse by the Internet and mobile phone. These developments include, inter alia: made it easier for adults to come into contact with children without control from other adults. Some adults use this contact deliberately to get in the position to commit sexual assault. This bill originated from the adoption by England of a similar provision that entered into force in May 2004. After that, the Children’s Ombudsman and Redd Barna have worked to get such a provision in place here in Norway. This, together with the positive experiences of England, led the Government to present this proposal for consultation last summer. The point of the proposal submitted is to allow the police to stop planned abuses before the physical assault itself has begun. This new provision will affect those who have agreed to meet a child under the age of 16 and who have intended to commit a sexual assault on the child. The police can then apprehend the adult at the moment he or she arrives at the meeting place or at a place where the meeting place can be observed. This complements the general responsibility for experimentation under the penal laws §§ 195, 196 and 200. The Committee also agrees that access to criminal offences should be granted if the parties are equal in age and development. It is also a unanimous committee that supports the fact that the proposal also makes it clear that Section 201(b) and (c) of the Penal Code also affects sexually offensive or other improper conduct perpetrated by electronic communications. At the same time, the Committee would stress that the new penal code alone is not sufficient to protect children. In the view of the Committee, a number of coordinating measures are needed to protect the very least from abuse by adults. An important measure is the training of children and adults in safe use of the Internet. The police must put in place the appropriate means to detect and clarify this type of crime. Modern communication actors should also be encouraged to take action themselves to prevent child abuse. I would also like to highlight in this connection the important work on the establishment of a filter at KRIPOS that restricts access to Internet sites that contain images of infringements. This was established under the previous government. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party and the Socialist Left, are pleased that the Government set up on 1 June 2006 a working group with a mandate to investigate and promote proposals for measures to prevent child sexual abuse in connection with their use of the Internet and that images of such abuses against children are distributed online. The selection was given the name "Faremo" because Grete Faremo led it. The Faremo Committee presented its proposals on 30 January to prevent Internet-related abuses against children and young people in a separate report. The report is on just over 20 pages and contains 18 concrete actions. When we in the majority chose not to address several of the minority comments in the prevention and investigation area, it was because we believed that this report stands by itself, and that it would then be artificial to highlight only some of the measures before the report had been consulted. We also had no need to say anything about Barna's House in this context, since the government was already well started working to establish it. This bill, which has been presented, has aroused great media interest, and I have been involved in a number of debates. There is one argument against this proposal, which was used in the debates, which I would like to comment briefly. It has been highlighted by several that this new penalty will become a law that will not be applied. To that it is said that the first year after England introduced similar penalties, it was applied 185 times, and there is no reason to believe that there should be any difference in substance in Norway in this area. I would also like to point out that the proposal presented, irrespective of the new penal code, contains some clarifications in the Criminal Procedures Act and the Penal Code. These are amendments which are a consequence of a judgment that the enforcement of conditional prison sentences with effect from 1 January 2006 shall be a judgment and not a prior one. Finally, I would like to remind you that it is a unanimous committee that recommends Odelstinget to support the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e231	It is an important matter that we are going to adopt today, and it is a pleasure that there is an overall committee behind this setting. Nevertheless, there are moments in this matter that it is important to focus on. For the Progress Party, consideration has been given to the children who have been the main element in this matter. The worst thing a society can do is commit crime where children become victims of the needs of other people. Therefore, a good and well-functioning law protecting children from such abuses is very important. The Groming paragraph makes us think a little bit more, because it's so special in normal legal context. We all know that the starting point of the rule of law is that one is considered innocent until the opposite is proven, and that the starting point for the trial is that a person should be punished after the crime has been committed, and that it should be possible for a person to think better before the act is committed. These are the facts that we have to take over when we deal with and adopt this new law paragraph. But for the Progress Party it was to strengthen the safety of children and the needs of children what became the main element of the scale. We know that the Internet is a great invention, and none of us today know how to do without, or how to do it before. For those of us who have children at home, it's fascinating to see progress, and see how much more they can do than we adults about data and the Internet. They surf the web, they email, they chat, they use it as a lexicon, they find friends on the other side of the globe, they make their own web pages, they communicate with school and teachers. In other words, it is not only very good entertainment, but also useful information used in schoolwork. But there are dangers -- there are dangers that we adults can't take over and that we don't have information about. ‘You can’t teach a child how to surf safely if you can’t surf yourself,’ was a wise head who once said. Although today we adopt this paragraph of law which makes it criminal to establish contact, it is also important to make each other aware that the world out there has come to be, and that it has a development that we do not know the scope of. It's so important that we get information to the schools, to the parents and to the children. Work such as: Save the Children and not least the Children's Guard.no do, is incredibly important. Because not all friends are good friends. Many children today believe that everyone is a friend, and often have a better and closer relationship with those with whom they chat online than they have with their own parents. We know that many criminals spend months establishing trust and friendship with children online. That's why the most important filter is the filter we're installing in the children's head. No school or parent should let their children out on their own without guidance. It often looks so innocent, but the father is there. We know that, otherwise we wouldn't have had to adopt this law today. I think I've mentioned it before from this pulpit. What was in a couple of months ago at my ten-year-old daughter's school was to make their own web pages, put out pictures of themselves and the family, make competitions and places where one could vote over the nicest and best girl in the class, yes, even the family dog had its own website – completely innocent at first sight, but so easy to abuse. We who are parents and relatives, and who have contact with children, have a responsibility. That is what the Stortinget and the politicians are taking with them this paragraph of the law today. It is gratifying – even though the Minister of Justice has now received a lot of praise, he is to boast today – that we have a Minister of Justice standing up and saying that children should be given priority, and that this should be put on the agenda. But we know too well that it's not just useful to pass a law in this hall, it has to be followed up. We can't just give the police a piece of legislation if it doesn't also include resources that enable the police to carry out control and enforce the law. If there's something time-consuming and resource-consuming, it's the kind of work that needs to be done here to get them involved with criminal purposes. The Progress Party assumes that the Government will come back with follow-up appropriations and closely follow this up, so that the police and auxiliary equipment are as rusty as possible when this new legislative paragraph enters into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e257	The rapporteur has presented the content of this matter in a very neat manner. Just after Christmas, a data security expert attended a parental meeting in Tromsø, where the theme was the Internet and electronic media. He showed parents what is going on online, and what actual dangers children and young people can face. The safety expert signed on as a 13-year-old girl, and after a short time this ‘girl’ had been contacted by several adult men who made verbal approximations of both violent and gross sexual character. Too many parents saw this in the web's shadow pages a shock and an alarm clock. Faced with the new technology, we need to find a different approach and be willing to use new tools to combat serious crime against children and young people. It is my and Right's belief that legal certainty at least needs to be strengthened. Society must dare to set new standards in the field of justice in order for children and young people to live safe lives. The bill that criminalises ‘grrooming’ or preparatory actions for sexual abuse against children moves borders in Norwegian legal care – for the benefit of the child. The right acknowledges that the new law will place police and prosecution authorities against demanding decisions. On the other hand, we are in a situation where the absence of action and use of silk gloves is no longer an option for action. To that we know too much about the serious consequences that it can have for the rest of its life for children who are being assaulted. It is therefore important for society to address the fight against the attackers and mobilise resources to ensure that it intervenes at an earlier stage in order to save vulnerable children and young people from major stress. On the right, in spring 2006, a comprehensive Document No. 8 proposals with a wide range of measures to prevent child abuse, including: via electronic media. We then also called for a Norwegian law against ‘grrooming’ according to a pattern of the United Kingdom. Late in the autumn of 2006, the Government presented the present legislative proposal. In addition, the Minister of Justice has been working on the so-called Faremo Committee. The conclusions of the committee reflect confusion about the proposal of the Right to Action. We are therefore meeting with considerable excitement information on when and how the Minister of Justice will follow up the important proposals put forward by the Faremo Committee. The first major budgetary conference of the Government was recently avoided. I therefore allow myself to use this opportunity to challenge the Minister of Justice on two crucial points at my discretion. Firstly, when can we expect the establishment of a police station online, or a 28th police district, as proposed by the Faremo Committee? Secondly, when can we expect the first Norwegian Barnas House to accept and help children in crisis – that is, when will it come into operation? And do you have any further plans for more such houses in Norway? The new ‘grrooming’ paragraph provides an improper police and prosecution authority with a new and more appropriate weapon in the fight against online offenders with the intention of committing an infringement. However, legal measures need to be complemented by other measures. We need to keep an eye on the whole chain of measures. Police must be guaranteed resources to establish surveillance systems such as: join central chat channels. At the same time, the Right believes that we need to focus on the need for more help on the child’s premise. Here the establishment of Barna's House is central, where the child can enter a door and meet a collective helper. We know that the need is there, and therefore I want to express great impatience on behalf of children and young people when it comes to the establishment of Barna's House. It is difficult to see why the start-up of this house in Norway should be so much more difficult than that, for example. were in Iceland and Sweden. I wish that the red-green parties could now get the speed up, so that Norwegian children can soon get an offer as good as, among other things. at the Stockholm Children’s Centre, which, in addition to victims of sexual assault, also accepts and treats children at risk of violence. But that means that you will follow Right's proposal to establish several regional Barna's House according to the model of Sweden. Then we can't settle down on a pilot project in Bergen for parts of Hordaland. No, children in Norway deserve a nationwide offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e278	The media’s focus on Storting is very often on disagreement — on which polarisation can be created in matters, and where it appears that one has the most divergent view and cannot be reassembled into one point of view. What's the big force in the matter we're dealing with here is that it's the exact opposite. All games are grouped by configuration. It is not one divergent bill. So that's the way you've taken the time that's been necessary. The Justice Committee was in London in the spring of 2006, gained experience from the United Kingdom and received examples of the table. There has been a good dialogue between the Judicial Committee and the Council of State, and the praise given to the Council of State seems to me to be in its place to the greatest extent. But then I am also a little surprised that the Right chooses to move the search light from the matter we are going to discuss today to a completely different question. It must be possible to take it into consideration in a debate, precisely because it creates an intrusion in a matter where there is full agreement. I have to say, for my part, that the visit to London at the New Scotland Yard and the presentation we got from various professional bodies in the United Kingdom made a strong impression. There's nothing that makes a stronger impression on me, both as a granddaddy, as a politician and as a doctor, than hearing stories about child abuse. So you can't really be sure if you're going too far in a law change that's about both being able to arrest adults and judging adults because there's an intention of a criminal act, if you can't be sure it's actually. But as the government here has shaped the text of the law, which we agree with today in the Storting, you have to make sure that it can be documented a purpose. For SV there is a certainty that we can support the child's interests without further delay, because it is too far to create a kind of legal certainty for adults by requiring a documented act, i.e. that it must actually be a fully-fledged sexual assault on a child, because it also means accepting that a number of children must have been subjected to abuse before the perpetrator is taken. In many cases, the same perpetrator is repeatedly indicted before he is finally taken. What's important for SV is that we, all the parties in Stortinget, are jointly able to reason on the same solution, gather about the same considerations and vote for the same legislative change. It's a great force. Now let it be the focus of today's debate on the amendment of the law we're actually making.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e289	The representatives who have participated so far in the debate have done well for many of the aspects of this matter. Let me just briefly underline that the Center Party supports the plural comment in the committee setting, and we hope that this will be an effective measure to prevent child abuse. One should always be careful when adopting laws that are directed towards an intention rather than the crime itself. However, society has a duty not only to punish crime but also to prevent it. The consequences of an abuse against a child are so serious that it is crucial to try to prevent as many abuses as possible, and that is the main reason for making use of this law. New communication technologies and their increased use have updated the need for such legislation. The centre party believes that the work on securing children increases protection against abuse must be done by a series of measures and not by this alone. The government-reduced Faremo selection points to many interesting suggestions in this way. I also want to commend the Council of State for the commitment he has had in this area. The speciality of child abuse is something that one needs to focus heavily on even in the time that comes, in school, in conversation with parents and in the political environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e300	I agree with those who have emphasised that it is important that this matter should be brought together, because it is demanding. Not in the sense that lawmaking is demanding, but it is demanding because in one area you choose to criminalise what you can perceive as preparatory actions, and that has been carefully done in the Norwegian judicial debate. But what we're talking about is that we're actually doing it in this case, is the terrible rug we have beyond this case, beyond the chat room, in the form of the big, almost criminal industrial activity we have internationally, based on child abuse, and as volunteer organizations like Save Children and others have documented for a number of years. And then we know that in the extension of it, in the social activity that 'weirs' get into the Internet, we get all the border situations that go over to the meetings that I learned in my childhood to master in the following way: that I should not accept chocolate from a stranger in the park. That's how it sounded at the time. It was the social room. Then you got into the cybernetic room. And once you've been a little bit close to the carefree chance of chatting, you realize how gross the assault really is when it first happens, when you realize where you are in such a situation, and how you're put off. Many years ago, I met policemen who have worked online in the United States, and who then worked according to the rules we know in our own country, according to guidelines drawn up by the National Attorney, where the police can just drive what we can call online infiltration to reveal something. I was on the way to this matter in the process of making an assessment of creating a different legal text, simply because I have read the Riks lawyer's hearing opinion, and I think it was very sensible in it. But I refrained from it for a single reason, and that is that I do not attach any of the people who have submitted the matter, any other purpose than to avert something that is wrong, and to try to intervene in specific situations. I don't want anyone to be created – let's call it – worry or uncertainty about that purpose and around the will that one will try it. I also hope that the text of the law will be applied in a practical way, and that it will be implemented. It depends, of course, on the existence of a significant policy impact. We know that there are professional environments in Norway that have it, and that in debates other than this one you can find out how to strengthen that competence. On this pulpit today, it has been enough to say how important it is. So, of course, it's related to some of the things that all the speakers have been about, and that came out very well in the committee setting, that we in Norway have the privilege of bringing together people in civil society around a table. Then they take responsibility. I know that myself, and it's been brought through the Faremo report by the State Council of Storberget. This is how the filter was created, which is currently at Kripos, where it was possible to collect a number of card companies, mobile suppliers and Internet suppliers to make an effort to address something that goes beyond this issue, namely to stop the spread of material where children are sexually abused. Taking this knowledge into account in this case, which I think has been done through the Faremo Committee, means that we benefit from something that is very good in Norway, namely that we are no more than we can sometimes gather, and that those who gather are citizens in the sense that they understand why what they are talking about is wrong – and that's some of the strength. There is some of the strength that I think is expressed in this debate. That then there's a bit of political competition and commitment to how fast you are with Barna's house, I just think one has to endure. If you belong to the government parties, you should see that as a pleasant call, in the sense that in the fight for funds it is good that there is energy around a matter, and especially around different solutions in the matter. I don't see it as anything but a constructive eagerness to promote the matter. When it comes to the legal text, I think it stands for itself. The firmness of the Committee is its own. I am pleased that in this area, too, the Committee has given particular attention to taking a trip to get involved in practical matters. I think it's important to learn – and do something. With these words, the left vote for the text of the law that exists here. We trust that the preventive work that can be done in civil society will be done. And we have confidence that the activities announced about Barna's house and other measures are actually coming. But today we make no other point than to highlight it trust and support the legal work that has been done. It is important, and it is important to have a common border in this country in terms of prevention, among other things. The representative, Mr Ballo, described us in an excellent way, and it is important that we stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e311	I would also like to express my joy at the fact that we are united behind the proposal that is now on the table in Odelstinget. I am pleased with the full support now given to the Government's proposal for a new penal code. This will help to strengthen the legal position of children in Norway as regards what most of us consider to be the most serious offences. In addition, there are two challenges in this type of legislation — or more, but there are two in particular. Firstly, there is legislation that tries to penetrate an area, a arena and a technology that we experience that criminal law has problems getting into. In my view, this legislative proposal will be a good tool and will help to advance as well as to strengthen police and prosecution authorities and, insofar as the alertness of other actors to what is developing, among other things. in the new technologies. I would also like to stress very strongly that this bill is also part of a whole, which many have been involved in, with regard to getting more focus on the abuses that affect children, and the abuses that occur in the closest relationships, which are so much too little the subject of debate, public meetings and demonstration trains. In this sense, I am pleased that we together politically are behind this. I wish that the Norwegian media too could have captured this, alongside all the other more or less peripheral issues that we are facing, especially this day, in terms of the functioning of politicians. The introduction of such a provision is mentioned in the Government Declaration as part of the Government's efforts to intensify efforts to combat child abuse. We believe that we have delivered this quickly, with a secure procedure. This type of law requires this. First of all, there's a new area we need to go into, and that's, like, The representative of Dørum was concerned, a provision that in itself challenges police, prosecution authorities and courts because it is a criminal order that is unorthodox, in the sense that acts take place before the complaintable act is committed. In this way, I think that the round that has been in relation to investigation and preparation in the department has been very useful and necessary, without me believing in any way that it has taken a long time. Children deserve the greatest protection of society from all forms of abuse. The government wants to ensure better follow-up of children who are subjected to abuse and to facilitate effective detection and prosecution of sexual abuse against children. In some types of cases, the Government believes that there may also be reason to increase the level of penalties in order to better reflect the criminality of the offences and the serious adverse effects that abuses actually bring. We will have several opportunities to discuss this in due course. Our hope is that the proposal for a new criminal code will help to prevent abuse. The proposal will provide police and prosecution authorities with better opportunities to intervene at an early stage in the course of the incident against a planned infringement, so that it can be averted. The child’s protection against abuse shall not vary according to the means by which the offender uses it to obtain contact. Much of the online behaviour of adults seeking contact with children for sexual purposes would not be accepted by normal physical contact. The Internet and other electronic media shall not be a lawless zone in which offences and other types of crime can be committed freely. It is important that legislation and police means against crime are up-to-date and adapted to such technological developments. Through this proposal, the Government considers that police and prosecution authorities will have a better basis for their online control activities. We also hope that the proposal to clarify Section 201 of the Penal Code on Sexually Infringement Behavior through electronic communications will help to emphasise the unconditional protection of children from any media or methods that might be used. As many people have said, in order to combat this type of abuse, we need to focus on several types of instruments. Not everything will be done with this decision. I am glad that many here have noticed what the working group to Grete Faremo has delivered. That's something we're taking the most seriously. I think we'll see it in its context and cost us time to hear what the hearing bodies say to do better. Several have addressed other aspects of this. I would like to mention that we probably need to look at alternative strategies to help children, not just the purely criminal ones, but also the civil law ones – it is often related to making the evidence better. When it comes to the question of Barna's house, there's something the Government is working intensively on. It's decided that the first one should be added to Bergen. The project is well under way. It is my hope that we will be able to deliver there, as opposed to the former government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e339	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e343	It's great that a gathering committee and a gathering of big business here gives the government full support for a new criminal practice that can prevent sexual abuse against the weakest in our society, the kids. The most important thing we can do is simply to prevent an assault from happening. The case spokesperson has done well for the content of the legislative change, where the child’s need for protection from sexual abuse was in focus. The Internet has been the criminal's new haven, it is said. Actually, we can't have it that way. The child’s protection against abuse shall not vary according to the means by which it uses it to obtain contact. Increased use of the Internet and mobile phone have caused some adults to deliberately use such contact to get in the position to commit sexual abuse. Then we have to give the police the means to discover and solve this kind of crime, even before the offence has happened. Both legislation and the police must be up-to-date and adapt to technological developments. The principle of intervention in the planning phase of a lawbreaker, we've discussed a lot. It's going to be the same thing as planned terrorist attacks. There we can also intervene before the attack is implemented. It is also important to clarify that information on the Internet for both parents and children should be given a more important place in school and training. Working prevention is always the best thing. The Minister of Justice named the Faremo Committee’s report, which contains many preventive measures and is now on the agenda. Responses when abuse has actually taken place are also important. He mentioned here Barna's house as an example of a good move, as if in a short time up and going in Bergen. I want to say it so that in this case we see another example of this government delivering, and that is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e358	I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice has engaged in this law that will give children a stronger protection against sexual abuse. I believe that such a provision will give an important signal to society, to potential perpetrators and to children, even though the right of children to protection from sexual abuse is being taken seriously. However, I would like to stress that a provision against grooming alone will not solve the problem of children being tricked, lured, manipulated and manipulated by adults who are planning to abuse them. Gramming legislation is only one of several instruments. Preventive work in the form of information on sexual abuse to children, their parents, teachers and other adults, such as: Our grandparents, are essential, because today there are very few children telling us about assault. This has its background in the experience of guilt and shame that often relate to having been subjected to abuse. I think lawyer John Christian Elden has said it so correctly: «The man with a candy bag that could then easily be detected and frozen has been replaced with the dressed gentleman with mass releases on the web where maybe 10 out of 1000 pieces on the bait. That's 10 kids, that's 10 kids. Ten innocent potential victims. The credit bag may not have given such a gain.» Many children with online access are contacted by adults, usually under false name, false sex and false age, with the aim of meeting the children to achieve their own sexual pleasure. The extent and adverse effects of sexual abuse have been documented on several occasions, in particular for the abused children, but also for society in general. Violence and abuse against children can have major consequences. This has to be taken seriously. Children are in a particularly vulnerable situation because they are in a development and learning phase. In a complicated reality, children have a clear need for guidance and protection, especially where adults, rather than care, cross the border. This law will give the police the opportunity to address matters at an early stage, earlier than today, and give a signal that combating this kind of crime against children will be given priority. I will give tribute to the Red Child for an excellent work of helping to ensure that grooming is put on the political agenda. I would also like to commend the Council of State for taking children's rights seriously. Nothing must be uninvited. The Hazardo Committee has highlighted a number of measures that can be taken. I listened to the Council of State's words that he will see to it. Everything must be done to ensure a safe everyday life for children.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e378	There is no doubt that today we can mark a sort of milestone within the Norwegian judiciary, and that in this way we will be able to give our children a completely different security and a completely different follow-up. I am a little surprised when it comes to this debate by some representatives, among others. Olav Gunnar Ballo, you're about to put down a ban on thinking about the next step, that's to raise your eyes beyond the law. Even the Council of State was concerned that the law is important, but then there are all the other things around that need to complement in order for us to get the system that, in total, will bring us what we want. Once I've brought this up with Barna's house, of course you can say there's something on the right about it. But we heard throughout last year that the current government was going to establish this house. When the Justice Committee was recently travelling in Bergen and asked questions to the court in Bergen, they had not heard about the work to be done so well, and of which the court should also be a central piece, in order for us to get Barna's house to work. So I'm sincerely anxious and worried that this is going to pull out further in time. Then I would like to say in connection with this with the online police station – and the representative Dørum was also involved – that the law should apply, we need to have a lot of police activity on the network that is actually there and monitor the chat channels and the tools that children serve when they are in the virtual world. In fact, it doesn't matter if the police have the resources to do, if they have the technical equipment to actually turn this law into something more than a piece of paper, that it should actually be able to be tested out. I have allowed myself today to see the law in that context and the world in which it will actually work. And then it's important, given the position of the Faremo Committee and the many good proposals that lie here, that the Council of State actually receives a budget for the harvest, perhaps already in the context of the revised national budget, which makes it possible to put many of these measures into practice as quickly as possible. That was my motivation to focus on it in this context. I would like to end by saying that I am very pleased that the Council of State is now signaling that, in the context of the review of the special part of the penal code, it is also in its place to see whether it is actually necessary for some of the crimes committed against children to intensify the punishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e393	I think it is unmistakably positive that the Right is so concerned with Barna's house and the realization of it. It's just that sometimes you can get the impression that if you had realized three this year, the right would have said five, and if it had realized five, the right would have said seven. What I sometimes wonder is if it's not good to see that you're going in the right direction, and then you could discuss which steps we're going to take further – so it's kind of like cursing the darkness instead of praising the light. Here, things are about to happen. I have to say that I sincerely hope that by the end of the ageing period you will have Barna's house in place in all health regions. There should be an ambition that the Government is able to fulfil. What the Council of State says is right – it is an intention that the previous government has not been able to fulfil. But then you also have the opposition on track to realize, that's good. So for the current opposition, the government position couldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e398	This is actually an article that I should have avoided keeping. Now there's two posts here that tell what purpose I had in my previous role really had. I know that very well myself. I remember the debate on Barna's house in Stortinget. I remember what cross-political commitment and what zeal it was from all parties, not least from those who are now in the government position, and I know what pressure it was put into the work. I know that the investigation report will be available in the autumn of 2005. I have not chosen at any time after trying to drill in why it took time from then to now. I have chosen to concentrate on getting it done. Therefore, I just have to dryly note that it was my intention to do so. I know, with the trust management experience I've had, that it's not always a government council in the Ministry of Justice, if you don't get started – we're going to call it a cross-ministerial cooperation. In fact, you're totally dependent on others contributing. That was the main reason why I put so much emphasis on the fact that there was involvement in the hall, because there is exactly the kind of pressure that makes it dependent on other departments to participate, especially when you have a practical knowledge of how to often argue about the crowns at budget conferences, you have to create a consensus and an atmosphere for it to be lifted. I'm not going to go further in telling you how to do it, except to say that in a debate like that today, where people have energy, they contribute to it. Of course, I want it to succeed. But I don't think I can be left with a storytelling that it wasn't the intention to do anything – of course not. That story may come in completely different contexts than in this debate, for here I take the word just to take the small footnote – but then use the footnote to what is most important, namely that any Council of State in the Ministry of Justice actually needs the broad backing of the Storting if one is to arrive at the cross-ministerial effort that makes it possible to get to both the house mentioned by the Council of State in Bergen, and for the sake of the matter what is now being discussed by the representative of Ballo. You actually need to support that. And just in a case like this, there's a golden opportunity to build up that support in such a way that you can bring with you the arguments. It happens that such makes an impression, I know from experience, and it's actually my intention both with my previous post and this to contribute to the strengthening of the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e403	I also want to say a few words about Barna's house. Because the representative of Dørum now came up with an essential point when it comes to the establishment of Barna's house. I just want to say to Odelstinget and active justice politicians: the first budget that contained Barna's house was the budget that we are now running after, and that had budget line and coverage for Barna's house, so that you can lay the groundwork for establishing it because there are funds there. At the same time, it's the point the representative Dørum points out, to make sure that all the professionals are involved in this collaboration and make sure that the child can meet in the house and get the help it needs there, crucially important. It is clear that there has been reason for much of the process that has been against what is now happening in Bergen, and that is also the reason for the work that is now going forward in Bergen. At the same time, I'm very concerned that we don't have to get into the situation that you're in on Iceland, where you actually have a house that large parts of the criminal court area actually don't use. We have to make sure that this house is going to be effective. I'm very concerned about that. Therefore, I do not fully follow the representative Aspaker that it is to do the most possible house to be established as soon as possible. And that Right as now makes this his case, I have to say I'm reacting a little bit, especially in relation to those who originally proposed this, namely None Marte Thorkildsen and May Hansen from SV – I think it was originally a Document No. Eight proposals in the previous period – and as steep for it every time. And if there was one place where you didn't get drag, it was from the actors who are now saying that they want five, seven or nine houses. I note that we have allocated money to this. We're going to set this up, but at the same time we're going to do it in a way that makes the houses not only a symbol of politicians who want to embellish themselves with something they've done, but that it's actually going to be an effective tool for the children who experience the most serious violations that you can have. I am convinced that we will now get to that in Bergen – and I think we will get to that – then what the representative Ballo outlines about establishing this in each health region will quickly come into place. I am also convinced that Regeringa, with several departments involved, will have to prioritize it in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e410	I think it's a positive competition right now, based on what everyone really agrees on. But there must be a basis for saying the following: A press release was sent last year: Now Barna's house is in place. Save the children wonder where it's gone. The Stine Sofie Foundation is wondering where it's gone. The judges are not asked. So here it's said from the Council of State that it's important to include all the available skills, all the professionals. We agree on that. We've seen what's happened in Iceland, but then you have to start fooling, for almost a year after you said that Barna's house was in place, the judges, as one of the most important professional groups, are not at all included in the work of getting a model to work. The name of the house is not even in place. Then there must be the law for an opposition party that agrees to establish Barna's house, to start to cheat on – when you have traveled to Sweden and seen that there will soon be seven Barna's house, and that the new majority government that is considering establishing Barna's house in each county – why in March 2007 the judges are not even asked about how they see it, and almost don't know what a Barna's house is. Then there must be a basis for saying that maybe you can use your majority, please, a little bit more actively than what you did in the opposition situation. All the honors of SV and Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who took this up at the time and got the rest of the Storting with him. That activity is not as clear about Barna's house now. So I hope you can make it clear that it's coming into place, and that the first children are accepted during the fall. Since representatives of SV believe that it is no problem to establish regional Barna's house, and that they have come so far in Bergen, I would like to get answers from the Council of State as to whether it is such that it is aimed at establishing regional Barna's house in parallel with the establishment of the project in Bergen that is thought to have come so far. I also want to ask questions about whether you have now included the judges in concrete terms, and have received feedback from them on how they see this, so that you do not get such a situation as the one you have in Iceland, in which we agree with the Council of State is very worrying. I think it's special that you get so upset that an opposition asks questions. A year after it was sent out press releases saying that things were now in place, you can see that it is not actually in place. In our neighbouring country, there is a majority that is far more active in establishing Barna's house throughout the country. There must be a basis for an opposition to ask questions about. Finally, I would like to say something other than to be bad with the government and government. I think it is incredibly good that the Council of State has got ‘grrooming’ through in Stortinget, and that we have got the consensus we have. It is a force that many people have been involved in, and it also gives ground to hope that we will get some convictions gradually when we get the other measures and instruments needed to enforce an effective penalty.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e429	One might have just passed in silence the dispute that has now been finally. It's a little funny that Barna's house is being discussed. If you think about it, Barna's house, if the law is to work after the intention, is really a little unnecessary. It shall in a way stop the assault that Barna’s house will contribute to repair. We all know that this is not going to happen, but all of the other measures in the law are the important thing here. To what Aspaker said, it has to go on thinking: what now? On 30 January, before we had finalised the law in the committee, there were already 18 specific points from the Faremo Committee. They've been sent to the hearing. I think that in relation to the law we are now discussing, the work is on prevention, the important thing. So the children's house is largely about repair work. It is important, but perhaps not the most important thing in this matter. I tried in my first post to give the previous government a favour for this with filters. I wish, to the extent that such important fundamental debates are to act as much as possible in terms of tightening up. Then we can agree or disagree with the priority when we come to the budgetary work later. I believe we can take that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e440	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 331]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e456	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e463	The Criminal Enforcement Act was adopted in 2001 and has now been practised for more than four years. Experience shows that the law works mainly after the intention, but that there is a need to adjust it on individual points. The Judicial Committee supports the Government's proposal and I will comment on the main legislative amendments. In particular, the Committee has been in favour of the proposal on standards of conduct for persons carrying out criminal work without being added to the establishment. Criminal law is dependent on trust both externally and in relation to prisoners and must also safeguard the security of both prisoners and employees. Therefore, a number of criminal offences have been identified by the Criminal Enforcement Act for persons employed in criminal matters. Many people carry out work in criminal care without being added there, such as teachers, performances and health workers. The Judicial Committee therefore supports the Government's view that the criminal enforcement requirement should also include persons carrying out criminal activities as part of administrative cooperation. Others who carry out criminal work may also be checked for good conduct. The Committee considers that this is necessary in order to allow the criminal justice system to cooperate as effectively as possible with other public bodies in order to provide a comprehensive follow-up to each criminal conviction during the settlement process. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right and the Left Party, emphasises that ‘the use of a certificate of good conduct shall contribute, inter alia, to ensuring that members of the criminal justice system do not abuse their position to assist prisoners in criminal offences, but also to disqualify previous convictions from being able to work in this field as well’. Criminal law has a duty to alert the victim or relatives of the time of leave, interruptions in the execution of the sentence and release from the prison sentence. However, experience with the scheme has shown that there is a need to extend the alert obligation and also to put in place detailed procedures for the implementation of the alert. The Committee supports such an extension in order to strengthen the consideration of the victim in criminal matters. The aim is to prevent the victim from encountering a perpetrator as much as possible by chance. Furthermore, the Criminal Enforcement Act regulates the admission of prisoners to send and receive postal items in prisons with varying controls, depending on the level of security. Electronic communications are also covered by this, but this communication is both difficult and extremely resource-intensive to control. The Committee supports the Government in accepting that access to electronic communications should be restricted as a consequence of the detention of prisoners. At the same time, we underline the importance that prisoners may have contact with their families and their social networks even during the criminal execution as part of the repatriation to society after an end of reconciliation. There is increasing cooperation between criminal services and other agencies on, for example: educational, social and health services. These are important measures that strengthen the content of the settlement and provide a good return to society. At the same time, criminal services may require language-related material from other public authorities. The proposed legislation will allow for the collection of confidentiality-related information if necessary by the criminal services. The Judicial Committee supports this proposal. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Right, are also concerned that professional secrecy is a fundamental principle of legal certainty and that there should be clear guidelines on when exemptions may be granted. It shall also seek prior consent to the provision of such information. Therefore, the majority, after a period of time, would like an evaluation of compliance with these rules as foreseen. The last legislative amendment in this case includes the use of radiological studies. Today, criminal services may decide to carry out physical examinations or other measures to obtain illegal substances. But there have been strict conditions for using X-rays, and the amendment of the law will lower the threshold for using such surveys. This is also likely to be more humane than for example. use of special toilet. The Committee supports the amendment of the law, which is justified by the fact that the first rule will help to reduce drug use in prisons. In addition, the Committee agrees that the rule can protect the health status of the prisoners. In dealing with the matter, the Committee wishes to point to the security of the meeting of lawyers with their clients in prison. The Committee therefore considers that it is appropriate to consider introducing similar security measures to those in Sweden and Denmark for lawyers visiting their clients in prison and therefore asks the Government to return to the Stortinge appropriately with an assessment thereof. Later today, the Justice Committee will be sent several amendments to the Penal Code to reduce the pay queue. Punishment is the most severe response of society, and if we are to maintain trust in the legal community, there must be both strict demands on criminal justice and there must be a critical look and debate. The Criminal Enforcement Act will reflect the requirements and frameworks that society sets for implementation and the changes that are now being made will provide a better tool for providing good and safe criminal protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e491	I want to start this article by giving honor to the members of staff in criminal matters. The work they're doing is very respectful, and it's important for the further work to bring down the reconciliation queues, which I'm sure we'll discuss many times in this room over the next few years. There are a lot of discussions in these days about checking habits in various professions. It is in this case as well. Where criminal justice is to cooperate as effectively as possible with other institutions in order to make an overall follow-up to each individual criminal conviction, it would be appropriate to be able to make claims of good repute for persons who carry out the work of criminal services or who are in possession of criminal custody. It is therefore gratifying that an overall committee is in line with the proposed standards of good repute. The warning of offended persons or the survivors is also important. The Progress Party will stress the importance of good warning procedures, so that those who have been victims of a criminal act and the relatives feel that they are being properly cared for. The threshold for informing victims shall be low, as the Progress Party sees it, so as to avoid encountering the perpetrator as much as possible by chance. But I would like to stress that such information should only be provided if the victims and the relatives actually want it. Some of you probably remember a few months back, when the Baneheia family wanted to have a right of appeal over future leave decisions, in line with the fact that the court has the right to appeal against a decision granting leave. The Progress Party will show that there is an obligation to provide information today, but there is no obligation to complain. This is, as the Progress Party sees it, not well enough, and we will ask the Government and the Minister of Justice to consider introducing such a system, where the victims or their relatives can be given access to appeals for leave and other types of leave from the reconciliation institution. The Minister of Justice has repeatedly called for better conditions for the victims and their relatives, and such a system as this helps balance the sense of justice between the victims and the perpetrators, and they feel that society is taking their situation more seriously than is the case today. It is also important that offended persons be notified of leave for those convicted under criminal law for forced psychiatric treatment. Many of these have committed very serious acts, and it is important that the victim and the relatives are notified in such cases as well. Before Christmas we could read in the VG that ‘hypercriminal prisoners in Norwegian prisons smuggle cell phones disguised as MP3 players and call free from the cella’. We cannot have such conditions in Norwegian prisons. Criminal services have stated that they fear that prisoners with the possibility of calling can arrange their own flight or continue their criminal run from prison. This affects the safety of Norwegian prisons. There is also a danger to social security. The Party of Progress will point out that the necessary control is more important than the needs of prisoners for access to free electronic communications. Here the Government must make available the necessary resources so that the employees can carry out the necessary checks. In particular, clarification must be provided with the Ministry of Transport in order to prevent prisoners from communicating with persons outside the walls using a mobile phone. Today, almost everyone entering Norwegian prisons has to go through a security check. The exception is the defence lawyers. In Sweden, lawyers must undergo the same security procedures as all other visitors. In Norway, investigations of public defenders with technical equipment or dogs may only be conducted in prison departments with a particularly high level of safety. Today, when we know that we are almost being physically inspected at any airport, I am glad that a joint committee has asked that similar security measures be considered in Norwegian prisons located in our neighbouring country. This will be an advantage not only for the prisoners, but also for the lawyers. Finally, Russian problems and drug use are a major problem in criminal services, and we know that prisons are often the largest detoxification institutions in the country. We know that the problem is also very big under open ground. This is something we need to take seriously, and we need to give more tools to criminal services to continue the important efforts made to reduce drug abuse in Norwegian prisons. Finally, I would like to address the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e523	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e526	First of all, I refer you to the rapporteur and the previous speaker. I have to be relatively short. It is very important that we strengthen the position of the victims. Criminal law and criminal proceedings are a relationship between the State and the accused, perhaps in some cases too much, because the victims are not taken seriously or feel that they belong in the process. At the same time, I have to take the opportunity to warn something against extending a right of statement and an information right, or the possibility of information, to some form of right of appeal. It's a development that might seem very easy to go into because we're going to strengthen the victims' position, but it has a number of sides that I guess the Council of State will get into its article. We believe it is important that insulted persons should have the right to an opinion – not the right to appeal, but the right to an opinion – in the context of the assessment of leave and leave. It is important, and we believe that the Government should assess it in the context of the NOU 2006 follow-up:10 Convicted in the criminal justice process – a new perspective and new rights. In addition, we ask for legislative proposals to be submitted to ensure that insulted persons are also notified of leave, release and expulsion of those convicted under criminal law for the transfer to forced psychiatric treatment. I've seen a lot of episodes, not just lately, but over several years that give reason to announce that we need that kind of rules. Otherwise, I agree with the previous speakers when it comes to tightening up security procedures in prison. I have been given some indications that there are not only criminal elements that bring drugs into prison. It is also what you would think were more uncriminal elements, in the form of lawyers, that you can assume or suspect has brought drugs in. There's actually a reason to clarify this and get a code that's more in line with the legislation in countries we prefer to compare with. Finally, I would like to address the minority proposals from the Right, which are in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e539	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e542	This approach contains many elements in relation to changes in the criminal enforcement law and the criminal law. The rapporteur has explained the individual elements in a good way, so I'm not going to review everyone here, but come in to someone. From the point of view of the SV, there is a good balance between the demands of a criminal offender for both the fact that he has to have been convicted, the fact that he has to prove himself fit, the fact that previous criminal offences are to be assessed, and that some should therefore not work in criminal custody – these considerations are balanced against the fact that on a leaflet he may have conditions that are of little relevance to working for the care of criminals, so that he is not discriminated against from that type of work. I'm just saying that because we see that some people who have served as judges in the past are getting a fair share of their experience of the kind of work that can possess a kind of competence for rehabilitating prisoners, which can also be useful for criminal services. Therefore, it is important to have differentiated considerations as to what a scroll really means to the individual when one goes to work later. We also need to take care of a development in which, in so many areas of society, there is a demand for good conduct and for a certificate of good conduct, that some people experience being disqualified from the labour market in general because they have previously done something that comes on the scroll. SV believes that the considerations are well balanced, as the wording is here. With regard to warnings to relatives, we also agree with the approach adopted by the Government and the Council of State — including there because different concerns are well balanced. You hear there's a difference in what the Progress Party and the Right Party say. But even though the approach is somewhat different, one goes a step further in relation to what is proposed here, namely that the relatives should not only be warned, but be made a party to consider whether to leave a closed settlement, the time when to go out, and they should be able to participate in checking it. There's a fundamental limit through which one has to think carefully, if one is to exceed that limit, because the relatives, who will of course have experienced great traumas after a criminal act, will become a kind of party in the matter and in many ways be involved in assessing what kind of boundaries criminal care should set. There may be a situation in which you should avoid bringing relatives into. There are difficult balances, and both the judiciary and the criminal services seek to balance such assessments on the basis of professional considerations and try to find – even if not existing – almost objective criteria for that type of assessment. Such criteria can never be objective if relatives are to be involved in the assessment of the time, because of the emotional ballast they carry, which would be right to be there, but which in many ways makes an inappropriate assessment of the correct time when the prisoner is going to leave. With regard to the other elements dealt with here, I am not going to go into them precisely because the rapporteur has done so in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e557	I will briefly comment on some of the elements of the matter. My first comment is related to the use of a certificate of good conduct in connection with the work of criminal services. I feel that the proposal that has been put forward is well justified. It has its background in the experience of criminal justice. I also think the committee makes a wise balance between having a certificate and having a flawless reputation. There must be situations where it is possible to settle separately. What you take over here is the balance – a rather heavy realism in the reconciliation situation, because it varies enormously between those that I would describe as the ‘most people’ and the group that we could call ‘the fool guys’. I'm not going to try to go into how to try to meet it, except to say that the principle answer is to see the individual for the individual and gain experience, and that's what the Penal Code adds. I think that the Committee and the Department have found in their approach both a tightening that is necessary, and also a balancing up to situations where individuals have to be able to do right, even if they do not have the best habits. That is what has been prepared wisely. The second main theme is alert. The warning policy outlined in the document and also in the committee setting, I think, makes sense. It is well associated with the work that has been done over a long period of time, also in the government that is now sitting, in the case of the offended. The left draws a fundamental distinction, and we don't want to make them insulted parties to the criminal proceedings or to the criminal execution. We fully support the measures put forward in the Preference Committee, because they do not cross that limit. A lot of things are suggested to be able to succeed and be heard and seen, for example. by extending a wise system of lawyers for assistance. On that basis, the Left does not follow either the Right or the Advance Party’s reasoning on the fact that insults are to be expressed in the context of leave. We don't. We don't go as far as the Advance Party, nor as the Right Party, because you have to assess it, and because you essentially cross a boundary that I don't think we should cross. The attitude of the Prodigal Committee that the Government has received, and that I know it's working on, solves a lot of other things that make the insults visible in a way that's important. What the Government has announced in connection with the system of compensation for victims of violence will also be important in such a context. However, on behalf of the Left, I sympathise with the proposal put forward by the Right and the Progressive Party that there should be no distinction between those who have been punished by ordinary criminal law and those who have been punished by specific criminal acts. There is no punishment for specific criminal acts without it being very serious. The easier situations fall beyond everything, and I'm not going to get into this today. When we get that far, we will vote in favour of proposal No. 1 today, and we will not vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox An assessment has been made in the setting for electronic communications. The tightening that has been done is also well justified. It follows again from the balance of the implementation of penalties in Norwegian institutions between the large majority and what can be called ‘the trick guys’. It is a fact that there are people who have been inside, with great confidence, and who have abused the confidence to organize gross crime. I feel that also at this point one has managed to draw a balance sheet that makes sense. You've made sure people can get schooled. There's a big difference between using intranets and using the Internet in any context. Norwegian criminal services have experience in this area, which means that, in addition to good education and schooling, they can be tackled. I think it's well balanced. With regard to the obligation to provide information, which is also one of the issues in the setting, I feel that it is well justified to address it. We have had some gloomy examples of prisoners losing their lives in Norwegian prisons, because those who worked in prison – based on their best conscience – did not know, for example, that they did not. that you were drug addicts. Then you suddenly get a mix, and that shouldn't have happened. You get a mixture of drugs that shouldn't be mixed, and it gets a disastrous outcome. I, who is standing here, know that it's not going to be like this, because you can get your consent, and based on your consent, you can solve a lot. But by doing what you have now done after the consultation process, which I also think is well balanced, I feel that hopefully you have managed to add up to something that prevents. At that point, the Left will vote in favour of the proposal put forward by the Right to follow up on what is happening, so that you are sure that the practice will be good. I think that's something that's reasonable and important. Many wise and important balances have been made, and Norwegian criminal enforcement is compounded. It's demanding, and it's going to go on a tension from the softest to the hardest -- I don't call them hard to 'the hard', I call them 'the stupid guys'. It's big and demanding, with a lot of nice people to deal with it, and the law here makes the job better and easier in sum.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e574	This is, in fact, some important but rather minor changes to the criminal enforcement law. There is no doubt that the main features of the law are still fixed. The amendment therefore only applies to aspects of the law, where there are clear shortcomings or the need for absolutely necessary improvements. I am once again very happy that we have a relatively wide upplay about these sizes. I think it is important for the legitimacy of the criminal execution work. In the process of downgrading the settlement queue – which we are doing well, it is fortunately going down well now – it will also be relevant to further amend the Penal Code. The main proposal will be to introduce electronic control as part of the criminal execution and a number of other proposals that Odelstinget and others have become familiar with, inter alia. through the proposition made in the Council of State last Friday. That's the second part of the follow-up to the queue. So now it's delivered massively, both with new places and also with legal grips that make us have very optimistic forecasts that we should now be able to handle this job within what has been our ambition. I would also like to mention that the government is now actively working on the crime investigation, which we are going to present during 2008, which just describes how the criminal justice system will be in the coming years. This is an exciting debate in which I hope that politicians and others will be able to take part before it comes to the Stortinget. In the work on the message, I am therefore putting forward a broad political debate, a dialogue that I hope can be both visionary and opinion-former, and which can lead to a clear strengthening of the criminal execution. The changes that we are dealing with here in Odelstinget tonight, and the treatment that the committee has, provide a good basis for taking a major step in criminal matters, precisely by seeing the value of being able to gather around important sizes and have broad political consensus. I would like to emphasise once again that the Government not only adds to ensuring the majority of the changes we are making, but that we actually have broad political uprisings around this. With regard to these concrete changes that have been proposed, and which relate to vice, I can easily join what Mr. Dørum has just pointed out. I believe that there is a good balance between several considerations. I also think it is important to underline in the testimony society we are developing – it is a desire for certificates in almost all crickets and hooks – that we must also give people who have the son and made up for themselves an opportunity to come back to society and play a role. It must also apply to criminal services. With regard to the issue of alerts, when the Criminal Enforcement Act was adopted, the Storting introduced an obligation on the criminal justice system to notify the offenders or their survivors of the time of leave, interruptions in the execution of the criminal offence and release from prison sentences. The intention of warning is that the offended person or his survivors may prepare for the possibility of convictions. The change that is now being made is, of course, a balance between the interests of the insulted and the convictions. There may be difficult balances, but I have stressed that there should be no more intrusive warning rules against convictions than is strictly necessary, in order to reasonably safeguard the interests of both the offended and his survivors. I am pleased that the Judicial Committee joins the proposals, searing if I observe that the Progress Party and the Right on some points will go further. With the proposal, I do not want to close the door to any subsequent extension of the warning rules or a thorough political debate on this. In my view, however, it is right to move forward step by step. We will gain experience with the current rules and at the same time, of course, implement the follow-up to the position of the Conciliation Committee. I think that's very important. I believe that the Committee's position is initially well balanced. At least one should think carefully about before going into a legal position with the offended who will give them the interests of the parties, first of all because it will be a burden for the victims of the sea, and because Norwegian criminal law is not to be borne by the offended. I therefore see the considerations that the representatives Dørum and Dahl do have a lot to do, without now wanting to conclude in this field. But I have to say that I believe that the party-comparison committee that was actually an indignity committee has come up with many good proposals, which there is absolutely reason to look at, and which I will promise the Storting, Odelstinget and the right bodies to come back to as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e589	Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e593	The case spokesperson did the right thing to change the law in a very good way. I just want to clarify a few points. The fact that the majority in the committee are agreeing that it's not a matter of postponing the reputation of a person, it's not a matter of spotless conduct, I think it's a very important signal to give. Former convicted people may be able to work in criminal custody. WayBack is a good example of the fact that formerly convicted people, through their experience, can provide the criminal services with an insight that can be valuable in the rehabilitation of the convicted person. The requirement for a certificate of good conduct shall assist in ensuring that, within the criminal justice system, it does not abuse the position to assist in criminal offences. Anyone who can work in the field of criminal law must thus be evaluated in a picture of integrity, which includes: a question must be: How close should it be to work against the other inserts? But there's a great distance to one point. It applies to a proposal from the Advance Party concerning the victims and their relatives to be granted a right of appeal and thus be able to intervene in criminal matters, for example: in the event of a change in the conduct of penalties, such as play or leave. In this case, there will be something new in Norwegian law that the victims will also act as some kind of judges and must keep running orientated about the progress of the soning. The Norwegian legal system is built up in such a way that it is the Stortinget that makes the laws, and the judges that judge. The relatives and victims are heard before the verdict is given, but that they should have a role when the soning is going on, at my discretion they will be totally unparalleled and very different. The obligation to provide information on leave is quite different. The community and the victims are entitled to protection, and criminal services are to be dealt with. In Norway, it is also the case that one should return to society after an atoning end, and compensation should not only be punishment, but also rehabilitation. I am therefore pleased that this government has increased the bet on the content of the soning. I want to draw out the school offer. The ability to get an education is important for a future job, which is again important to stay away from crime. Additional software activities, such as: elective and mind masters are also important measures. And last, but not least, I'll mention that we need to get to more drug treatment sites. Finally, I'm really looking forward to the criminal service message coming, so that we can discuss all of these measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e612	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Olav Gunnar Ballo reinstated here the president's office. [[See page 333]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e624	The odelsting shall vote in case No. 1-3 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e632	Four proposals have been made during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1, 2, 3 and 4, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e951	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e961	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e1092	The President will draw attention to the fact that a correction has been made to the suspension. This applies to II on page 6, where it shall read ‘22. May’ and not ‘21. May’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e1103	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e1113	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e1121	Three proposals have been made during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and the Right-wing Proposal No. 2 and 3, from André Oktay Dahl on behalf of the Right
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e1340	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-20-lower.ana.ud121e1350	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
