ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e76	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat. The President will propose that the Stortinget deal with the supplementary agenda before the ordinary agenda. – No objections have been raised to this proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e92	I am pleased to have the opportunity to explain the medical coverage of the Norwegian forces in the NATO-led stabilisation operation in Afghanistan. In order to ensure that Stortinget gets the most comprehensive picture of the status and development of this case, I would like to give a broad explanation. The ISAF operation is currently NATO's and Norway's most important foreign operation, and I therefore follow the situation in Afghanistan closely. Since I joined as Minister of Defence, I have visited the Norwegian ISAF forces six times. I was in Afghanistan last October, and I also visited the Norwegian forces in Meymaneh. These visits are important precisely to give me firsthand knowledge and the opportunity to see with your own eyes what conditions the Norwegian soldiers operate under. The Norwegian soldiers do a good job of creating stability and security for the Afghan people and thereby contribute to security here at home. In Faryab, Norway runs a stabilisation unit, known as PRT, based in Meymaneh. The PRT concept implies that a number of mobile observation teams, called the MOT team, operate from the base. The MOTs patrol all over the Faryab province and can be two-three day trips away from the camp in Meymaneh. On these trips, the MOTs seek local authorities such as district governors, police officers, village elders, etc. In this way, they support the authority of the Afghan government, provide a situational overview and demonstrate ISAF’s ability and willingness to attend throughout the country. When the situation on the ground develops, the nature of our presence must also be adapted to this. The safety of the Norwegian forces is therefore assessed continuously. The same applies to the need for necessary strength protection measures. During the last six months, the security situation of parts of northern Afghanistan, and in particular the border areas between Badghis and Faryab provinces, has deteriorated. The recent operation in this area, where Norwegian forces participated, shows how challenging this situation is. I am very concerned about the health care of our soldiers at home and outside. It has always been — and remains — a priority task for me that Norwegian staff serving in foreign operations receive rapid and sound medical treatment. Sound medical provision is also important in order to provide those involved in the outreach operations and their families with the necessary security to serve abroad. Of course, the security of our forces is linked not only to the availability of doctors and other specialised competences, but also to the individual skills in sanitation, military skills, situational awareness, good intelligence, appropriate evacuation resources and not least to cooperation with allies and partners. It's in the interaction between these factors we're trying to make the security of our forces as good as possible. At the same time, I have, throughout my time as Minister of Defence, been very concerned to stress that there will always be risks associated with foreign operations. It is precisely because an area is unstable and uncertain, not least for the local population, that we send strengths to it. Aid workers, staff of humanitarian organisations, diplomats and military workers working in such areas are all aware that this risk never goes away, no matter what countermeasures are taken. According to the current NATO guidelines for medical support in operations, the nations have the ultimate responsibility for sanitary support for their own forces. However, the command that conducts operations will coordinate the sanitary support for the forces in the operating area – also across the participating nations. This also applies to NATO forces in Afghanistan. Sanity services in military operations are organised to enable those injured to be evacuated to appropriate treatment within given time standards. The standards for when an injured person should be able to be treated at a given medical level are set out in the NATO Guidelines. These standards also apply to ISAF. For the ISAF forces, the organisation of the sanitary service is also determined through the operational plans approved by the Council of NATO. The Defence Manager has followed this up through the establishment of operational requirements for the sanitary services of our departments in Afghanistan. The standards for stabilisation units require a role 1 sanitary service that can provide life-saving treatment to the injured. Within role 1 of the stabilisation units, the norm is always met by the presence of a doctor. I'd like to stress that we've always had toy coverage in Meymaneh. Due to the large distances in north-west Afghanistan, the Norwegian role 1 capacity in Meymaneh shall be enhanced by a surgical team. Unfortunately, this has not been possible at all times until recently. NATO guidelines indicate that further treatment of patients should take place by transferring to a treatment institution with resources to perform life-saving and harm-reducing surgery within two hours. This role 2 capacity shall be ensured in combination with the German hospital in Mazar-e-Sharif and the surgical team in the stabilisation unit in Meymaneh. The hospital in Mazar-e-Sharif also meets the role 2 requirement of the Norwegian emergency response force QRF, located at the same location. In the case of medical helicopter evacuation, it is a responsibility of Germany, which has been assumed by the leadership of the regional command in northern Afghanistan. In May 2006, an agreement was concluded between Germany, Sweden and Norway. This agreement obliges Germany to place evacuation helicopters for sick and injured persons throughout the northern region within the technical and operational limits of the helicopters. Earlier this month, these German evacuation helicopters were moved from Termez in Uzbekistan to Mazar-e-Sharif, and thus this has given shorter evacuation times for our forces. The German evacuation helicopters have very advanced emergency medical equipment and are staffed by emergency medical personnel, including doctors. When Norway assumed responsibility for the stabilisation unit in Meymaneh from the United Kingdom on 1 September 2005, we continued the sanitary service at the corresponding level. During the period March 2006 to March 2007, Norway was responsible for a field hospital in Mazar-e-Sharif with an expanded role of 2-capacity. The surgical teams at this field hospital were also used in Meymaneh. During this period we rolled personnel from the surgical teams between Mazar-e-Sharif and Meymaneh. The rationale for keeping an advanced surgical team in Meymaneh is to perform life-saving stabilising surgery to enable the patient to withstand evacuation to a hospital with all the necessary capabilities. Germany assumed responsibility for the field hospital in Mazar-e-Sharif after Norway. The volume and spread of the Norwegian contribution to the strength in Afghanistan has increased from 2005 to the present. This has led us to need to recruit a greater number of doctors to our forces in Afghanistan. So the defense is recruiting far more doctors today than we did back in 2005, but unfortunately not enough to meet the needs of all departments. For some periods, the surgical team has lacked a surgeon or anesthesiologist. Specifically for Afghanistan, the need for doctors in 2005 was three jobs, while for the period up to today, 11 medical positions have been largely needed. Today, the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan have an operational need to fill seven medical positions. These medical positions are distributed among the Norwegian departments of Mazar-e-Shariif and Meymaneh. In Mazar-e-Sharif, the challenge lies in recruiting general practitioners to the departments there. This is a particularly demanding group to recruit because, in addition to medical competence, specific field skills are also required. Following the completion of the mission of the field hospital, medical access for the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan has become less predictable. Especially challenging has it been to recruit surgeons to be on standby in Meymaneh. The sanitary service must be kept under constant review in relation to the operational tasks. During periods when evacuation capacities and availability of adequate treatment facilities for the personnel have been limited, operational managers have had to take into account and adapt their post-operative patterns. There is an obligation on the part of the operational manager to assess whether a given assignment can be carried out at all. As mentioned above, the safety situation in northern Afghanistan has deteriorated. There is therefore a need to improve the sanitation capacity of the stabilisation unit in Meymaneh. At the same time, it is important to note that the majority of the Norwegian strength contribution over time has moved geographically, first from Kabul, then to Mazar-e-Sharif, and from summer next year to Meymaneh. Thus, the combination of an increased Norwegian presence in Meymaneh with a worsening safety situation and a more demanding threat picture suggests that there is now an increasing need for better sanitation capacity. The main measure in this context will be the introduction of three Norwegian helicopters to the base in Meymaneh early next year. This will significantly improve evacuation preparedness and reduce transport time back to the hospital in Mazar-e-Sharif. In addition, I have taken an initiative towards the Ministry of Health and the Medical Association to ensure a more stable access to surgeons and anesthesiologists to the surgical team in Meymaneh for months to come. The recruitment of surgeons to the Norwegian ISAF team has been demanding. Unfortunately, despite the efforts made, until recently it has not been possible to ensure the continuous staffing of medical specialists. Of course, it is not good enough that we have had periods without a full crew, and I find this unfortunate. I would nevertheless point out that for 63 of the 73 weeks that have passed since the material of the surgical team came into place in Meymaneh, we have had either anaesthetic or surgeon present in the camp, as well as general practitioners and specialist nurses. I recognize that this has not been a fully satisfactory solution throughout the period, but it has nevertheless given us some emergency medical response. At the same time, I have great faith that the measures it has been working on the last year, which have been further reinforced in recent years, will produce good results. We now have both anesthesiologist and surgeon in place in Meymaneh, so we have a complete surgical team in the area. We now have safe access to surgeons at the stabilisation unit in Meymaneh until 1 April and expect to have the effect of the long-term measures. It is of course a priority task for me to maintain this level of preparedness. Norwegian forces are under the command of the head of ISAF and the regional head of ISAF in northern Afghanistan. In line with NATO's operational plan, the Norwegian head of the Meymaneh stabilisation unit will receive assignments from this regional command. It is the operational manager, in this case the head of the Meymaneh stabilisation unit, who, prior to any assignment, will have to assess whether the sanitary coverage is satisfactory from the point of view of the risk. If the sanitary coverage is not satisfactory for the mission, neither will the Norwegian head of the stabilisation unit in Meymaneh carry out the mission. The mission will then be cancelled, in agreement with the leader of the Northern Regional Command. In the absence of such an understanding, the quota manager responsible for all Norwegian forces in Afghanistan, following advice from the Norwegian head of the stabilisation unit in Meymaneh, could stop Norwegian participation. In line with these command and control mechanisms, the Norwegian forces shall adapt to limitations in relation to the type of operations they undertake. This includes, among other things: has been the case with the extrication force in Mazar-e-Sharif, which for periods has had to be supported by German doctors when it was about to undergo operations. There have also been cases of having to cancel a job, because the doctor has not been available. The Norwegian forces shall not be used for more demanding operations than they are intended to do and, in the case of more extensive operations, joint resources and capacities managed by the Northern Regional Command shall be allocated. Sanity support is adapted to operational challenges so that staff can receive adequate medical care at all times. When Norwegian forces were deployed during the operation in the Faryab and Badghis provinces of north-west Afghanistan earlier this fall, the area of operation was reinforced by German sanitation resources in line with this principle. There was also a temporary German hospital in Meymaneh. This was an integral part of the Operation Plan of the Head of the NATO Regional Command in northern Afghanistan. The safety of Norwegian forces also depends on a number of other factors. In this context, I would particularly like to highlight the construction of new camps outside Meymaneh City, which provide a higher level of protection, the possibility of operating helicopters in connection with the camp and improved health infrastructure. As I said, on the Norwegian side, we consider the continuous safety challenges for our forces. This may result in different strength protection measures, such as: operational restrictions, supply of material or enhanced watchkeeping. It is important to note that developments in Afghanistan are constantly changing, and security in northern Afghanistan has been eating itself up recently. This is why the Government will strengthen the Norwegian presence in Meymaneh with an infantry force of about 100 Norwegian soldiers and three helicopters with up to 70 soldiers to support them. Helicopters will be in place as soon as it is technically possible to support them in Meymaneh, and this will be a very important enhancement of evacuation capacity and thus of the sanitation service for Norwegian units. Our special forces, which in March will once again be in place in the Kabul area, have their own sanitation support adapted to the department's mission and needs. I will therefore continue to focus on the situation of the Norwegian forces in northern Afghanistan. The distances and operating pattern of the Norwegian forces in the Faryab province mean that the mobile observation teams themselves must have sanitary competence to handle damage in an early phase. They must also be capable of being transported back to the nearest sanitary facility. Our forces have good competence in this area. As part of the preparations for the MOT team, they receive extended sanitation training. One of the team members in the MOT team also has sanitation as their main task, and the position is usually filled by a nurse with special skills. Much of the time they operate far from the camp in Meymaneh. There may be many hours of driving on challenging terrain. For this reason, it is important to have access to good medical evacuation capacity, primarily through access to helicopter transport. Medically, surgical treatment on a role 2 field hospital is clearly preferable to treatment by the individual PRT. So if you first have a helicopter available, and the patient's condition allows it, you'll normally fly the patient directly to the hospital in Mazar-e-Sharif. Improved medical coverage means higher medical preparedness for Norwegian forces by allowing life-saving and damage-restrictive surgery in Meymaneh. Administration of Norwegian helicopters reduces evacuation time, and this is particularly important for those operating far from home base. Consequently, the combination of safe administration of surgeons in Meymaneh and Norwegian helicopters will significantly strengthen the sanitary service of the Norwegian forces. I have never hidden the fact that the mission of the Norwegian soldiers and forces in Afghanistan involves risk, and the threat picture can change in the future as well. No matter how good the sanitation is, the mission in Afghanistan is risky. We do what we can to ensure the security of our soldiers, but at the same time it will always be a risk associated with participating in foreign operations. I have kept Stortinget informed of the Norwegian contribution to Afghanistan. In that context, I have also explained the security situation and the challenges facing our soldiers. In the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee on 4 October I also said that the medical situation in Afghanistan is sometimes quite precarious, and that at that time we were unable to meet the sanitary capacity we want in Meymaneh. I also showed that there was a cooperation with the hospital to improve the recruitment, but that it would take some time before that scheme would come into place. It's this recruitment that's now being followed up. We have, as I have been involved, initiated measures to improve the recruitment of surgeons for operations abroad. These measures are also mentioned in my written reply to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee earlier this week, but I would like to highlight the most central points. Together with the Minister of Health and Care, I have established a system for the effective recruitment of surgeons in the short term. Through the agreement with the Norwegian Medical Association, we have secured surgeons for Meymaneh in the period until 1 April 2008. An important part of this agreement is flexible conditions that meet both the needs of the defence and of the individual physician. I have also given the Defence extended powers, so that they can more effectively recruit doctors. These measures have, as I said, had immediate effect. Earlier this year, an agreement has been concluded between the Defence and Ullevål University Hospital for the addition of hospital specialists who can and will serve in operations abroad. This is to give the Defense a predictable access to qualified personnel for this type of service. The addition process is in progress. In addition, the contract work around a similar arrangement with the University Hospital of North Norway is under preparation. Together with the Minister of Health and Care, I have taken the initiative to make a joint effort to extend this type of agreement in the long term to several major hospitals in the country. These measures will strengthen the available sanitary capabilities of the defence. Dialogue has also been initiated with the Norwegian Medical Association and other associations that organise academics in the Defence Department on the system of compulsory academic orders. There is agreement to cooperate in order to make this service more attractive, especially for doctors, thereby recruiting more doctors for further service in the Defence and for operations outside Norway. The Ministry of Defence and Defence have worked to establish an agreement with Serbia. The country has partnership status with NATO and holds a high level of professional health skills. A number of surgeons and anaesthetics have been certified for service with Norwegian forces. Cooperation appeared to be very promising and there was therefore great expectation that this could help solve the challenges of medical coverage in Afghanistan. The work had come so far that Serbian doctors were ready to travel to the operating area, but the lack of formal political approval from the Serbian side stopped this cooperation for the time being. The Ministry of Defence has launched a similar dialogue with several other countries. Measures have also been taken during the autumn of 2007 to improve working conditions, and not least to improve rotational arrangements for doctors serving in the Defence. I also mentioned in my letter to the Control and Constitutional Committee the agreement concluded between the Norwegian Medical Association and the Ministry of Defence on 18 November on immediate measures for the recruitment of surgeons to Meymaneh for the period until 1 April 2008. It is important to stress that this agreement is more than an ordinary collective agreement with the Medical Association. It ensures the delivery of surgical services at a high level of competence and in a completely different way than we could achieve by an ordinary tariff agreement. The participating doctors in the scheme, all of whom hold competence and experience as trauma team leaders at emergency reception, coordinate and administer the scheme in close dialogue with the Defence Sanitation. They undertake to serve as planned and to cover any absence so that the service is available in Meymaneh throughout the contract period. This is a short-term measure. I am very pleased that the Ministry of Defence and the Medical Association agree on an intention that we will have a framework agreement on pay and working conditions for both surgeons and other categories of doctors by 1 April next year. I also stress that the Medical Association, in the agreement concluded on 18 November, has committed itself to working for service in military operations abroad. With this, I have explained the status of medical support for our forces in Afghanistan. Today we have a satisfactory medical coverage in Meymaneh, by the fact that the surgical team is now fully staffed. In Mazar-e-Sharif we have the German hospital, which ensures a role 2 capacity. However, we still have a challenge in relation to the recruitment of departmental doctors to the rapid reaction force in Mazar-e-Shariif. The agreement concluded with the Medical Association means that we will engage in further dialogue to find satisfactory solutions for this group as well, which will require partly different types of incentives and solutions than for surgeons. We will have a high focus on this matter in the future. However, I would like to state once again that any shortage of doctors in this force has consequences for what kind of mission can be solved, or trigger the need for medical support from other nations. I would also like to stress again how important it is for the overall health preparedness that we now get our own Norwegian helicopters in Meymaneh from March next year. As Minister of Defence, of course, I find it unsatisfactory that, in times past, we have not been able to fully fill the required medical positions in Afghanistan. This is also the background for the immediate action, as well as the long-term action we have taken. The tightening measures have already given us better medical coverage, and I believe that our efforts will also ensure the necessary medical and evacuation capacity for our forces in the long term. Operations will always have to take into account the available sanitary facilities. Sending Norwegian soldiers and officers in foreign operations is one of the most difficult and most important decisions we are facing. As Minister of Defence, I have a special responsibility to ensure that our forces are well prepared, well equipped, well managed, and that they get good follow-up afterwards. This is a responsibility I take very seriously, and I can assure Stortinget that I have a continuous focus on this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e187	Having regard to the second paragraph of Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure, the President will now propose that a comment round be opened so that one representative from each party group can have the floor once for up to 5 minutes, and the Council of State will make a final statement of up to 5 minutes. No objections have been raised to this procedure — and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e192	I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for a thorough and good account of the medical coverage and safety situation of the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan. I also hope that this statement is satisfactory for the Storting, and that we avoid political games around such a serious topic. As of today, Norway has 500 soldiers in ISAF, and it's a total accumulation that is behind our involvement in Afghanistan. That's good, because it's important for the soldiers that are sent out, knowing that we support them. Sending Norwegian military forces abroad is a serious decision, perhaps the most serious decision in which the National Assembly is involved. Going into areas of war and conflict is dangerous, difficult and time consuming. We have no life to lose, but there is a real risk of loss of life. So far this year we have lost two soldiers in Afghanistan. Norwegian soldiers sent out to contribute to conflict resolution and peace, as well as their relatives, should know that security for the soldiers is priority No. 1st@item: inlistbox Soldiers must have access to modern materials and equipment and have adequate health preparedness. This is something that we all agree on. I know at least that our defence minister is genuinely concerned with the woes of our soldiers. The Minister of Defence has stated that it is a priority task to provide Norwegian soldiers serving abroad with rapid and sound treatment if medical assistance is needed. The construction of the sanitary service in NATO operations is both a national responsibility and an international responsibility. Our PRT in Meymaneh should be enhanced by a surgical team to form a so-called enhanced evacuation axis. After Norway withdrew its field hospital from Mazar-e Sharif in March 2007, the medical situation of the Norwegian forces in northern Afghanistan has become more difficult. But as we've been briefed on, an agreement has now been reached to ensure until April next year that there are surgeons in Meymaneh. The need for surgeons is therefore in the process of being covered. That's good! At the same time, there is still a challenge in recruiting general practitioners to Mazar-e Sharif. However, I would like to stress that the challenge of recruiting medical specialists has in no way been a new issue for us in the Defence Committee. These challenges, which may have led to operational restrictions, have long been recognised in the Committee, including: following a visit to the Sanitation of Defence in January of this year and our relatively recent visit to Afghanistan. So to a more serious question, which we, as a crowd, must also take on board: will improved medical coverage solve all our challenges in Afghanistan? The answer to that is no. As we have heard in the presentation, participation in international operations will always involve an element of risk. We can't avoid that. Unfortunately, we have to realize that doctors alone are not the solution to everything. If you try to look carefully and objectively at our needs for sanitation and medical competence, it is mainly the soldiers in the field who must have the necessary skills to quickly stabilize and deal with the injured. Secondly, there is a need for the fastest possible evacuation to the nearest sanitary facility, preferably a field hospital, where there is just a sufficient number of medical personnel with specialist competence to deal with different types of damage. For this reason, the health competence of each soldier and the availability of good medical evacuation capacity are as important, and probably more important than purely national, Norwegian, medical/surgical coverage of our forces in Afghanistan. As the Minister of Defence has explained, our forces have good sanitation. It is also decided to deploy three helicopters in Meymaneh from spring 2008. This is probably the most important contribution we can make to strengthening the security of our soldiers, and that's something I'm pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e213	The main reason why the Progress Party wanted this statement from the Minister of Defence was to clarify what will happen now and in the future with the Norwegian contributions in Afghanistan. There has been a lot of uncertainty about this, not least as a result of much of the exchange of words that has been in public space. Of course, the Control and Constitutional Committee has a significant job in assessing history and the past, but we considered it crucial to clarify the safety situation of the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan. I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for making a statement on such short notice. Our opinion is that it seems that the situation is reasonably under control, at least in the short term. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the Minister of Defence to clarify further what will happen after 1 April, because, according to all that the Minister of Defence said now, 1 April 2008 stands as the turning point, and as the great, new and uncertain time with regard to the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan. I would like the Minister of Defence to make this clear. This broad presentation also raised several new issues, which I may not be going on now, but which I will at least ask the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to take a closer look at. One is when the helicopters that have now been notified are actually coming to Afghanistan. I hear the Minister of Defense is operating on the term 'after New Year'. It's a floating term, and it could be nice to know when. Secondly, she refers to the fact that Germany has been heavily relied on. One question that I also think it is natural to travel is: Has Germany, through its responsibility, had satisfactory medical coverage in this situation? Of course, it is absolutely essential that we make the necessary resources to optimise the situation, especially when we all recognise that this is a very risky and demanding task. I just want to stress on behalf of the Progress Party that we are behind the Norwegian commitment. We are committed to creating the greatest possible level of security and security for our forces present in Afghanistan, but also for the relatives here at home, who, of course, want the greatest security and security for their own. That's also why we have this round today. I noticed that the Minister of Defense stressed that in situations where medical coverage is not satisfactory, significant restrictions have been placed on the activities of the soldiers. Of course, it is good for security, but it also raises questions as to the impact it has on the mission of the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan and the extent to which it will affect our other allies operating in the area. Anyway, this situation raises a number of questions. I would like to conclude by saying that I experienced the presentation as satisfactory in terms of medical coverage and sanitation in the short term, but I am a little surprised that it has only recently been possible to come up with the idea of cooperating with the Minister of Health and Care and the Medical Association to put in place a satisfactory system which is supposed to apply until April. It is striking that this has not been done in the past and that, for this reason, there has been an unstable and difficult situation for Norwegian forces in Afghanistan over many months, but we will have to come back to this on another occasion. Nevertheless, we intend to conclude, at least for the moment, that in the short term this works satisfactorily. However, I would like to stress that the Minister of Defence should clarify what, in her opinion, will happen after 1 April 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e238	I want to begin where the Minister of Defence ended. Sending young people out to contribute in military operations on behalf of our country is a serious matter for all of us who are involved in the decisions to do so. Therefore, it is necessary that we ensure that they are well equipped, that they have good training and that they are able to carry out the tasks, but they also need to have the best support apparatus around them when they are sent out in that type of operation. It's our duty as a decision maker to take care of it. That's why it's a cross of thought that it's obviously at times been so that the medical follow-up system hasn't been good enough for you to be able to do the jobs you've been sent out to do in the past. That it has had the consequence of saying no to some missions, I seem to have been a wise and necessary decision, but it is a cross-thinking that we have not been able to fulfil the tasks requested by other NATO countries or other bodies, because we have had shortcomings associated with medical follow-up. This case has several aspects, and some of them are going to be included in the Control and Constitutional Committee. I think that the statement we have received now has given the basis to say that per. Today the Minister of Defence has said that the situation is satisfactory and good enough. We don't know what's going to happen after April 1, but it's an optimistic tone, and you have faith that things are going to be in place. I want the Council of State to come back to just how much and what you think will be in place until April 1. In any case, when we're participants in a NATO operation, we're participants in a network where it's natural to borrow from other NATO countries – get support and help from them. We don't want to demand that everything be operated on by the Nordics where there is a presence of the Norwegians, but that our Norwegian soldiers have to have the medical follow-up within a NATO structure that is necessary, so that there is no shortage of either limitations on the pattern of operations, or that, on the other hand, major accidents or less follow-up should happen, because we don't have enough coverage. This is a serious issue, with which the Storting will have to follow closely in the future, not least with regard to what we get in place after 1 April, but perhaps also with regard to how we structure and think about the cooperation between the Defence and Health Administration in the years to come. So to prevent us from participating and doing our job because we don't have enough sanitation and follow-up, there's also a problem when we're there to do our job. The safety of others is reduced in that context. My conclusion is that the immediate measures seem to be in place, but not as if we've got structures that make this not a recurring problem over time. That challenge remains with the Council of State, to get to the structures that make it impossible for us to repeat the situation we have now had for at least ten weeks, namely that we have not had enough medical coverage to fully carry out the tasks we have been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e253	I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for a good deal. She explained that we have reasonable control of the situation today and also until 1 April next year. In a good way, she has also shown us that we can count on more long-term solutions. This work has been started, and I assume that she will come back to Stortinget to inform you more about it when the work is completed. It looks like we have this under good control. It is also the case that there has been a dispute between the head of defence and the head of sanitary services, which will be recorded in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. We here at the Stortinget, which last year raised 50 million. kr extra, realized that more resources were needed. But of course, we from Stortinget or Regiringen can't call Norwegian hospitals. We have foreseen – and we expect – that the professional rental of the defence will take place. I should therefore not put myself in that dispute. He'll be listed on the Control and Constitutional Committee. Then it is that the defense committee has known for a long time that we have trouble here. That's why we offered more money, so we also visited the head of Defence Sanitation at Sessvollmoen in January this year, and of course we were also in Afghanistan and talking to them there, in the camp in Meymaneh. I mean, it's not just getting hold of the league. And that's once again how the security of the solar data is based on a lot of things. Well, the sun data is based on the fact that there are well recruited people, that they have received good training, and that security is in place where he is going to be. And maybe the most important thing for them is the follow-up they get when they come home, because we know that a lot of wear and tear is delayed. They need to get in touch with the Defense to find out what they've been doing. It's also the case that it's important to legitimize the assignments we're on, as much as possible. It turns out to pay off in the long term. This ensures a good recruitment, not only from the Defense Department but also from the Health Service. We know that other organizations, such as the Red Cross, Legs Without Borders, the Palestinian Front, etc., don't have a lot of trouble recruiting people from health services. They're going out for a completely different salary, too, but they're coming up. In surgery, it's a little difficult, because being a surgeon on a mission with our soldiers means they don't get their occupation done. Of course, we're glad that it's rarely allowed them to practice what they can. This is an inherent problem. It's easier if you go out with, for example, Legs Without Borders. There will be one standing and operating close to a sleeper. The contact established with the Norwegian hospital community appears to be able to deliver results. We'll be very happy for that. It is very good that the Minister of Defense comes here to Stortinget, because today we have gained more insight into what our soldiers are actually doing. We see that the so-called MOT teams, i.e. the mobile operating systems, travel a lot. They observe, they reconnoiter, and of course they contact different parts of the local population, primarily in the Faryab province. Then we've got the right that there should have been several armored vehicles. In some cases, it may make the security worse – a little compared to the technical one, if one were to run on something – but if one runs for armor, one would not be able to operate good enough intelligence or could build a good enough network to prevent any attacks. So here's a two-edged sword that you can armor so well that one thus creates unsafe situations, because one thus does not have an overview of what's happening there. Now there's also an entry so that doctor/surgery isn't everything. We saw this not least during the last tragic event, where it was clear and clear that those who came in the car back had had a very good and thorough training in first aid. They stabilized the wound and, of course, also made contact, so that further help could come. So this that sanity is training number. 1 for most of the solar data, is also a basic part of the work. Obviously, the security of the solar data comes back to us several times. I am pleased that the Council of State will also come here and inform about the longer-term solutions that have to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e279	Let me first stress that when Norway joins Afghanistan, anchored in the United Nations, this is a very demanding and important task. We are there to help ensure stability and prevent Afghanistan from becoming a base for international terrorism. Firstly, it is important in order to contribute to economic and social development in the country, secondly, to contribute to political nation and state building, and thirdly, in order to achieve the two former processes, military efforts are necessary to ensure sufficient stability. That is why we are behind Norway's involvement in Afghanistan. For the Christian People's Party, it is a fundamental expectation that the leadership of the Defence has a continuous and strong focus on the security of our soldiers involved in this mission. Among these, it is clearly expected that there is at all times a medical emergency which ensures rapid and safe treatment when necessary. Unfortunately, recent serious incidents have left doubt as to whether this is the case. It's an uncertainty that we can't live with. A proper health preparedness is essential for life and death for our soldiers. That's why the Storting asked for a quick statement from the Council of State here in the hall. We have, and I thank the Council of State for that. I have recorded that the recent pressure from mass destruction and the media has resulted in an increased activity from the Council of State. It is good that, after dialogue with the Medical Association, there has been an agreement on immediate measures for the recruitment of surgeons. It is good that an anesthesiologist and a surgeon in these days have traveled down. It is good that there has been an agreement with the university hospitals to secure specialists. I assume that the use of foreign medical specialists is also considered if necessary. And it's good that three Norwegian helicopters came in early next year, as the Council of State said. At the same time, I have to say that I think it is striking how challenges the defense has worn by over months and years, now is solved almost during a long weekend. It is striking how the significant challenges of recruiting health professionals referred to by the Minister of Defence have now been addressed in a short time. Yes, it seems at all that there has been a lack of inertia, a lack of proactive action, in order to ensure sound medical treatment for Norwegian forces, forces that are regularly on sharp assignments. If that's the case, it's serious. I have to say that the statement leaves a question as to whether no more could have been done before from the Council of State. It must be stressed that the Council of State is responsible for the proper medical preparedness of our soldiers, and it does not vary, either with media coverage or with parliamentary attention. It is a continuous responsibility, which is fundamental to providing the soldiers and their families with the necessary security. Such an assessment must be based on professional assessments. There is a medical evaluation of what is sound medical preparedness, and it is, of course, a military professional assessment of what it is proper to enter into on behalf of our forces. Still some questions remain related to the defence agreement with the head of defence's health, the procedures chosen in the case, follow-up of alerts in the defence, etc. I am pleased that these issues are now to be dealt with further within the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, and that, hopefully, through this presentation today, we have separated the absolutely necessary current question of whether the Minister of Defence and Defence have sufficient control over medical preparedness and medical coverage from now on. It has been essential to clarify that the responsible authorities are able to ensure proper preparedness for our soldiers in the future, both in the short and long term. I believe that the Minister of Defence's statement proves that the necessary steps are now being taken and that the situation will be followed up. I have the expectation that the Stortinget will be kept informed about how this works. I am not least expecting both the Minister of Defence and the Defence Department to have a very proactive approach to solving the problems that we have dealt with here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e296	I would like to thank the Minister of Defence for a thorough and good account of the medical coverage and safety situation of the Norwegian forces in Afghanistan. Our stabilisation unit, PRT in Meymaneh, is doing an important job both for ISAF and for the civilian population in northern Afghanistan. The PRT concept implies that a number of mobile observation teams, the MOT team, operate from the base. The MOTs have the entire Faryab province as an operating area and may be several day trips away from the camp in Meymaneh. Their task is to keep in touch with local authorities, such as district governors, police officers, village elders, etc. This provides a good basis for the necessary deghanization that we are also working on. This way of working supports the authority of the Afghan government, provides a situational overview and allows ISAF to be present throughout the country. At the same time, these are an important point of contact with the civilian population, which in turn allows greater efforts to build up civil society in the area where we are located. Norwegian soldiers sent out to contribute to conflict resolution and peace, as well as their relatives, must be sure that the security of the personnel is priority No. 1st@item: inlistbox This is what we do, among other things. by having access to the best possible modern materials and equipment and by having adequate emergency medical preparedness. We also know that there are discussions in Norway about what is a proper emergency medical response. We know that after Norway withdrew its field hospital from Mazar-e-Sharif in March 2007, Germany has assumed responsibility for the field hospital, and thus the medical situation of the Norwegian forces in northern Afghanistan has become somewhat more difficult. However, in an emergency, Germany has undertaken the task of providing the necessary sanitary assistance. Previously, the surgical teams at this field hospital were also used in Meymaneh. During this period we rolled personnel from the surgical teams between Mazar-e-Sharif and Meymaneh. I think it's natural to consider rebuilding a better sanitation service in Meymaneh, which will improve emergency preparedness in the area and at the same time provide a health care service to the local population. The better relations you have with the civilian population, the better the general security situation will be for our soldiers in the area. I noticed that the defense focuses on the individual soldier's sanitary competence as well as access to good medical evacuation capacity. The centre party is therefore satisfied that it has been decided to deploy three helicopters in Meymaneh from spring 2008. That's probably the most important contribution we can make to strengthening the security of our soldiers, which we're pleased with. Sending Norwegian soldiers and officers to foreign operations is one of the most important, but at the same time one of the most difficult, decisions we face. It is important that our forces are well prepared, well equipped, well managed, and that they get good follow-up afterwards. I understand the Minister for Defence so that she takes this responsibility very seriously, and we are pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e311	I would like to thank the Council of State for the presentation and thank the Presidency that got this so quickly on the agenda. Sending soldiers into war is the most serious, the most important and the most difficult decision you make in a popular assembly and in a parliament. That's why, as elected representatives, we have to do everything in our power to ensure that the soldiers can do the job they've been sent by us to do, in the best possible way, with the greatest possible safety net around them. In the left, it is satisfactory that the Council of State says that the measures taken recently have had immediate effect. There is another body in the United Kingdom that will continue to work on why these measures have not been launched before. But the concern of the left, like several others here, is what happens after April 1. The council must assure us that the pressure is being held, and that the tasks will be resolved after 1 April. To the left, it is positive that a profile has been put on with cooperation with other countries in order to solve these problems. It's both reasonable and good solutions, including canceling a job if you don't have good enough security back. What worries the Left is that you don't always see that the biggest challenge in the last few weeks has not necessarily been related to operations. You live all the time in a war situation, and the threat can also be there when you're on your way to shooting, not just when you're on your way to something that can get sharp. The left will also note that it is important that you have the right material, not just the right people, around you. We've also been asked if we have the right helicopters and planes to do this job – not just if we have them, but if we have the right guys. So I also want to ask the State Council for an assessment of whether the helicopter equipment is what's right and what's useful for those we've sent out to do a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e324	I would like to thank the support that Stortinget gives to the mission of the Norwegian soldiers in Afghanistan. It means a lot to those who are out. I will comment on some of the comments that have come. Many people say that they are satisfied with the measures taken in the short term. In the longer term, I would particularly like to refer to the agreement previously concluded between the Defence and Ullevål University Hospital, which is now also to be extended to several other hospitals, in the first instance the University Hospital Nord-Norway. Hopefully we'll get the same contracts with other hospitals around the country. We're doing a great job, and I believe it's going to work. So to the dialogue with the Norwegian Medical Association and other associations that organize academic orders, on the system of compulsory academic orders. Cooperation has also been established here to make this service more attractive, in order to be able to recruit more doctors for further service in the Defence. When it comes to the international track, which many people have been involved in, we have a very good cooperation with Serbia – I would say – and we had a great deal of faith in it for a long time. However, it was stopped for formal reasons — not in Norway, but in Serbia. There have been questions about the helicopters, and when they get in place. Helicopters will be in place in March/April. The helicopters in Norway are slightly different from the helicopters in Germany. Germany has large helicopters, which are almost a flying hospital for evacuation. Germany also has a very good hospital in Mazar-e-Sharif, which supports our forces and has it as a task. It's very important to us. This hospital was formerly the responsibility of Norway. Now it's Germany that has it. We say very clearly that if we don't have medical capacity available before an operation, we will limit the operational activity. It's the local boss who decides. The restriction of activity has had no impact on our allies, because especially in the Faryab province, only Norway operates through this stabilisation force and the MOT teams operating in the province. In the case of Mazar-e-Sharif, there have also been restrictions on whether you could operate at all, but there have been greater access to doctors, especially from Germany. I've been asked, why hasn't this happened before? I have to say that I understand the question. I would really like this to have been resolved earlier, because a number of measures have been taken, which I have now tried to underline. Unfortunately, for different reasons, they have not provided the results that we had hoped for. It was therefore absolutely necessary for me to address the matter in another way. The representative, Trine Skei Grande, asks me to assure you that the pressure is being held up. That's what I'm going to do. As for the right planes, or the helicopters, it is clear that we have the helicopters Norway has, in the Defense – there are no other such capacities available. But the helicopters that we want to use in Afghanistan also have an ambulance capability, even though it is slightly more limited than Germany has. Nevertheless, we see this as an improvement in terms of time. Otherwise, I will make sure that I keep the pressure on this matter high.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e348	The debate on the matter on the supplementary agenda is closed. The President will propose that the statement by the Minister of Defence on medical coverage for Norwegian forces in Afghanistan be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. We shall then proceed to the ordinary agenda, no. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e366	I'm referring here to the presidency position, which is that we follow the recommendation that comes from the payroll commission. I just briefly recall that the reason we got a payroll commission was that we were going to get away from the arrangement we had that the Presidency was going to promote a proposal for the salaries of the big business representatives and government councils towards Stortinget. We wanted an independent Commission to promote that proposal, but of course the Storting must finally decide. In all these years, the presidency has followed the position of the payroll commission, precisely because we wanted an independent commission to be the one who actually decided this. That's what we're doing now. If we promote another proposal, it really means that we are going back to the old system, that the Presidency of the Grand Duchy must come forward with a proposal and decide this later in the Chamber. I would also like to show that the Wage and Wage Commission notes that, in particular, the Wage and Wage Representatives, but also the State Councils, have been slowing down, and have had a weaker wage trend in the last five years than elsewhere in society. I want to refer to the actual figures that do not come out well enough in the attitude of the payroll commission. For all employees in Norway, wage developments over the period 2001–2005 have been 22.9 pst. This has also been the case for industrial workers as a group. For civil servants, wage trends have been 25.7 p.m. and for government employees of 23.8 p.m. For the grossing-up representatives, wage developments have been 17.7 p.m. during this period, i.e. an anomaly of 5.2 pst., while for the state councils the aberration was 3.6 pst. I don't want to compare the trend in head pay in business, because in many ways it has run a bit erratic, but I can mention that for managers in companies with between 100 and 250 employees, wage developments have been at 41,5 p.m., i.e. more than twice as much as what we're talking about for the big business representatives. I will then refer you from a letter that LO has sent to the Presidency, which really involves clarifying what we are talking about in relation to other groups. They write in this letter: «For the current year, the effect of this shortage was significantly higher than it actually is.» And then they write why: ‘In the absence of a calculation of wage growth for calendar years, an excessive outlook in today’s economy was provided. It reported a salary increase of 6.9 pst. If you calculate the settlement as it is done for the broad areas of agreement, the correct figure is 4.7 pst. [[in annual wage growth from 2006 to 2007]] What is proposed here is actually a wage development as it is for other groups. But the Wage Commission has underlined, as I have explained, why the Wage Representatives and State Councils have been slowing down quite considerably in relation to what is the general wage trend in society. And here I'm not talking about leadership wage developments, I'm talking about the general wage developments in society. If you were to do what the minority in the Presidency suggests, if you were to give the government representatives and government councils only a crown supplement, while everyone else in society would get a percentage supplement, you could ask yourself how long it would be before the Stortinget had somehow come into a pay situation that is completely different from what we've been used to in the post-war period. It would over time simply not be responsible, in my opinion, for the country's top political body, the elected assembly, to have such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e391	As you can see from the setting, the SV's grossing-up group will vote against the proposed wage increase, or increase in remuneration, as it is officially called. Both grossing-up representatives and government members belong to the ten percent who have the highest wage income. We believe that having all the right pay should reflect that we are elected to the people, and that most of us are doing a good job. We are also ombudsmen, and we believe that we are at a wage level that can be defended, and that is good enough, even on the basis of recruitment needs, which has at least been an argument in the past. I see from the mountain newspapers that mountain politicians are using an increase in the gross pay as an argument for increased pay for rapporteurs and other full-time politicians. Thus, the proposal for increased pay increases the pay gap for other elected members of the population. Then one might say that mountain politicians and other politicians have a maritime responsibility. Yeah, that's absolutely right, but so do we. This is the basis for us to vote against the proposal today. For us in SV, it's an objective to reduce the differences in society. A contribution to reduced differences is a pay bill that gives the most to those who have the least. This can be done by giving an equal add-on. In fact, even though the percentage supplement gives more dollars to high pay than to low pay, it increases the difference. This is the background to our proposal to give the Wage Commission clearer guidance – guidelines that ensure that the regulation is consistent with the average salary increase in crowns. So it's important, what the prime riser said, is that the general thing is to measure the average relative to the percentage. That's absolutely right, but there's no argument that we can't go ahead and reverse this development, and thus be involved in reducing the differences in society. Then I want to comment on pension plans, because there has been a repetition on our part. We have been a pusher to get the pension schemes to depositors and government members in accordance with the usual pension rules. There are many reasons to say that today's pension schemes are in quite a contrast to the usual employee situation, among other things. that they are regulated in relation to the gross wages and salaries in force at all times. For us, it is important that the arrangements we have be seen as reasonable among people. And that's what politicians have to trust. Now we're pretty happy that there's been some work going on to make changes. For us, it is absolutely essential that the premise, that our pension schemes are consistent with ordinary pension schemes, is at stake. I am addressing the proposal that we have also addressed in the presidency's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e410	The representative of Ågot Valle has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e413	I would like, just for the sake of the protocol, to refer to what the other elected representatives in Norway have in wages, or in remuneration – for well we are 169 in this Chamber, but there are 431 rapporteurs, a number of county rapporteurs, county food rapporteurs and, of course, county councils who are full-time elected and who have compensation for that, of course. For example, when you have: has looked at seven different cities, is the lowest compensation for the rapporteur in Bodø, at NOK 650 000, while the Stavanger rapporteur has NOK 810000. The State Secretary, for example, just to take that group, has 638 000 kroner before this regulation, while we have 612 000 kroner. So I just want to have it in the Minutes: there are a number of other comparisons here that show that the remuneration of the representatives of big business is in no way a payroll, which you might have been given the impression in the public debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e420	I have a few comments on some of the things that have been said in the debate, including: that when the payroll commission has made an adjustment to the Storting, the Storing must follow it, in any case. I have to say that it is a claim to which I cannot subscribe. I guess I don't think that the Storting is free of the responsibility you have, for the decision you make, no matter who makes us decide. The Wage Commission was set up, in my view, to free the Storting from the discomfort of adopting its own salary. We have to, anyway, so we have to stand for that. I agree that big business representatives should have a good salary, and we do. There is nothing in the situation today that suggests that it is necessary or that this increase is needed. In my view, there is an entirely unnecessary use of money. It has also been argued against using a crown supplement. Some of us have a past in other congregations, where they've been working on pay settlements. There has been a good principle – at least in parts of the work movement – that crowns are the ones that distribute the most fairly. That's actually what you're living with. It's for pay or social security you have to buy what you need. When we use percentages, everyone knows that percentages of a small amount are going to be a few dollars, percentages of a large amount, like our pay, becomes a lot of dollars -- and then, in fact, the differences in purchasing power are going to increase dramatically. Now, when we're in a situation where things are going down in society and everyone needs to compare themselves to someone who earns more than himself, and looks forward, to say it like that, the elected ones and the people who earn more than themselves, it might be a point for the Greatness to go ahead. Rather, one should compare with all the highly educated, well-educated, wise and skilled people who are to fill a whole range of important positions in this society, and on whom we, as magnification and government, are totally dependent, also have an understanding of the level of pay that leaders grant – and that the differences at a normal level of pay in society and the level of pay of political leaders do not become too large. So I think it would have been a very good contribution on the part of Stortinget to say no to this salary increase now, and look at the system of how to increase wages – i.e. with crown supplements and not percentage supplements – and, of course, as Mr. Ågot Valle said, go through our pension system. There are major changes in the pension system for absolutely everyone else, and I think it would be minimal understanding in the population if the changes that apply to all other parts of the population were not to apply to those who are politicians, at large and in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e431	I just need to clarify that I did not say that the Storting must follow the attitude of the payroll commission. I didn't talk like that. I said that if we were to promote another proposal, it is really to take back the situation we had, where the Presidency is promoting proposals for salary increases for the Stortinget, as the Stortinget decides. The size also now adopts its own salaries, but we have a system in place where others, on the basis of certain calculations and assessments, promote a proposal for the Stortinge on what salaries we are going to have. The majority of the Presidency wants us to keep that system instead of going back to what we had. We remember what it was like. At that time, we had to adjust our wages significantly at regular intervals, because we did not take the responsibility of keeping track of developments. This is not to relieve a discomfort. It is simply a matter of ensuring that an independent body says something about what kind of salary they think they should have. When Karin Andersen says we're going to compare ourselves to a number of other skilled professionals, I've tried here to explain that the wage trend of all the groups that it refers to has been significantly greater in the current year than that of the big business representatives. So it's going to be 5.2 pst. I'm not talking about leadership wage developments either in the state or in the private sector. I'm talking about the general wage development of ordinary employees. In the case of the pension scheme, the Presidency has taken steps to reduce a sample to review it. I fully agree with Karin Andersen that there is a great need to review it, when all other groups have their pension system reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e445	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 647]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e461	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e470	There is a broad consensus in the Committee that St.meld. No 30 for 2006-2007, Broadcasting in a digital future, provides a good fact-finding of a large and demanding field. The Committee has carried out a proper examination of the notification, and I assume that the individual batches present their views. So I am going to use the rest of my post to describe the right position. The main impression of what is described in the message is that the Government follows the long lines of media policy. Here there are no very big surprises or particularly borderline proposals. In so far as the notification, with the exception of issues related to the NRC, makes relatively few conclusions, there may be scope for a slightly more exciting approach. In a time of great technological change, we should take time to be briefed along several parallel tracks. Because we don't know where the evolution is going to go. For example, we had hoped for clearer signals in relation to the questions of vertical integration. This is an important theme where market players need clearer signals about which course we are going to follow in the future. The most common approach here is to seek to avoid vertical integration by imposing a distinction between who delivers content and who owns infrastructure. The message here refers to a review of the Media Ownership Act. Right-wing think it would be well worth spending time on finding other approaches, even if the EU gives clear signals in that direction. We would like to see, for example: also investigates a system based on free access of content to all networks, irrespective of networks, supplemented, where appropriate, by regulation of the price of traffic on the network, i.e. a parallel type of thinking to the one we have for power supplies. I hope that the government in the further work on the question also includes this starting point. Right-wing supports the Government's line on a softer approach to digitalisation in the case of radiomedia. We also support the signals given in relation to new and more sustainable local radio concession schemes. The notification is also largely concentrated on issues related to the government’s management of the NRC. The right-hand approach is that a public public broadcaster is becoming very important in the future – mainly based on traditional media policy considerations linked to a good, varied public conversation. In addition, more and more cultural policy considerations are emerging in relation to the role of the NRC in safeguarding Norwegian home production of content, Norwegian-based news dissemination and Norwegian languages, etc. The NRK plays a short and good role in the whole of Norwegian-based content providers, a role we think is becoming more important. The current organisation of the NRK is strongly motivated by the desire for the NRK to have an independent position in relation to the State as its owner. This is also an important justification for the TV licence system. In the future, the right considers that it will be very important for the NRC to maintain strong integrity vis-à-vis the state owner. We are therefore a little concerned about the sum of the many reporting procedures and governance mechanisms proposed, which I will come back to. It is generally agreed that the NRK is faced with demanding changes associated with the rapid development of the media field. Changed technological solutions, competitive conditions and user habits will require foresight, high development skills — technologically as content. The right is concerned that the NRK will succeed in being a locomotive in these contexts. Detailed management and tight procedures for exercising ownership are hardly a particular inspiring starting point. The right assumes that there will always be a good relationship of trust between the board of the NRK and the department's political management as a general meeting. As well as the owner of the board of directors, of course, there is full opportunity to list the issues in question on the case map. From this point of view, the right-hand message is very much in line with the scope of the issues to be addressed at the general meeting. In particular, we refer here to questions about measures that may have an impact on or otherwise have a close connection with NRK’s general programming services. The right is short and well concerned that the NRK's armpits are too small. Right supports other main thread of the message. I will come back to some particular situation in a later article.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e496	There is a broad consensus about most of this option. Most of the opposition supports the government party in the most significant way. That's good. Of course, it is gratifying for the Labour Party and the Government Party that there is a great deal of support for our policy, but most importantly, it is that it ensures great and broad welcome for the need for a strong public broadcaster in the future as well. Developments in the media field require new and changed framework conditions. The message is a good and thorough review of the challenges we face in the years ahead, and through the message and settings of the Committee, we have clarified and clarified the terms and conditions on which it will work. NRK has large space for the message. It's not surprising, it's the opposite. If we ignore the Progress Party, all others are some about the need for and the significance of a strong NRK even in the future, funded by the public. The NRC is the country’s most important cultural institution, which is entirely crucial for the dissemination of culture, language and national identity. In this setting, it is obvious that most people want it to continue. Although both technological changes and competitive conditions change rapidly, almost all of them now. providing far more channels than one has today, it does not change the need for a strong NRC with clear commitments, both in relation to city and country, and in relation to broad and narrow groups. The approach angle of the leap party – which I don't have any problem realizing they have – will lead to a snowier, more expensive and poorer media supply for everyone. But for those who only base competitive and cost-benefit assessments on their cultural policy, I understand that the NRC in particular, and public broadcasters in general, is certainly a problem. Some of the most enjoyable thing about the setting is that the other civil parties so clearly mark the distance from the Progress Party – and instead there are some with us. In this country, we have a great deal of excitement about the most important public broadcaster – both politically and in the population. In hardly any other country can make a find. The NRK shall note and manage its trust in a good and credible manner, including in the future. The government has now submitted a separate message for a public NRK broadcaster. The poster well expresses the expectations and requirements we have for the NRK, and will make it easier with good governance. We have now clarified the conditions the NRK is going to work after, we've made clear what the NRK is going to stick to, whether it's about viewer expansion, about children and young people, the need to ensure a good supply for all parts of the population, or it's relative to NRK's commercial activities. In addition to the NRK as the publicly funded public broadcaster, competing private channels within public broadcasting are also important. TV 2 takes care of that function today. When the TV 2 concession period expires, we need to find other ways to ensure that more commercial players can contribute to a wide range of public broadcasting activities. I think it might be interesting for private channels to secure a place in the digital ground network against taking care of public broadcasting obligations. It is therefore good for the Government to consider introducing such a scheme. I look at the setting that the opposition believes that a wide review of the field of work and the formal position of supervision is necessary. Their conclusion is clear: To quote the setting, supervision shall be ‘as independent as possible of the respective department’. [[...]] That position, I understand, is for about two days for individuals. Because if we're going to believe what's in the newspapers by day, the most important thing now is to get more direct control from the ministry, at least close to buying single channels on the one distribution platform. I think we're making fun of having a slightly more principleal approach to governance and authority added to different supervision, whether it's the Media Authority or others. What we're all here about, however, is that one should come up with schemes that allow us as consumers to choose single channels we want to subscribe to, regardless of the platform we use. It is therefore important that the Government initiates such work. The nature of the impact it would have on the media gap, for example: The position of the niche channels, and the impact it will have on the price of consumers, are some of the questions we need answers to – in addition to the purely technical and practical challenges. We have to be able to keep both consumer concerns linked to price and consumer and cultural aspects related to deficiencies within the media field. Technological developments require a review of media ownership laws. Today there is no regulation of vertical integration. The former has concluded that no such regulation is desirable. But the reality is changing fast, and now we need to assess whether it is necessary to extend the law in that area. The same liabilities with respect to electronic media as net newspapers and web televisions. These are complex and important issues that the Government has now taken the initiative to address and get answers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e522	This communication does not seem to indicate a clear change in media policy, but rather that it is followed in the old tracks of existing instruments. Many argue that more extensive changes could have been discussed, such as issues related to supervisory authorities, vertical integration, platform neutral instruments and funding. The Progress Party has repeatedly pointed out that we believe that the Media Ownership Act has not functioned properly and that the restrictions imposed by the law today on ownership do not provide satisfactory solutions in relation to the development of today's media market. We believe that satisfactory solutions will be achieved in these areas on the basis of the Competition Act. The NRK is central to the Norwegian media everyday life and in this setting. The Progress Party presented its views on the NRK in Document No. 8:11 for 2006-2007, on the reorganisation of Norwegian national broadcasting and the winding-up of the television licence system. For many years, the NRK has had a monopoly on the broadcasting of television and radio. The monopoly has been justified by the fact that only a licensed monopoly will be able to deliver good quality public broadcasting across borders. This monopoly has gradually been broken down. A flora of local and national radio stations, together with several nationwide commercial television channels, has proven to be viable. Concession awards have often been subject to content requirements and, in some cases, requirements have actually resulted in new public broadcasting channels. The large increase in radio and television offers has given consumers a great deal of freedom of choice. Developments also show that freedom in the ether stimulates diversity and quality. The Party considers that it is important that the authorities facilitate good competition between broadcasting service providers for consumers. We also believe that competition in the radio and television sector is hampered by the fact that the market is largely dominated by the former state monopoly. This is due in particular to the investments made by the Community in these activities and to the financial instrument in place for the activities of the NRC. This view is supported by the strong expansion seen by the NRK in recent years. The Progress Party believes that a free and independent press is a prerequisite for democracy, freedom of expression and the rule of law. In order to ensure competition and media diversity, we will work towards the greatest possible degree of freedom of establishment in the media industry. The Party wishes to reduce and in the long term remove the licence fee to the NRK. As long as the NRK licence exists, the entire NRK offer must be made available to all. Alternatively, those who do not receive these channels must have a reduction in the broadcasting fee, as the Progress Party has arranged for a number of times in this Chamber. In this setting, there is a lot of talk about sponsorship and advertising in NRK's different products. The Progress Party believes that the NRK, as long as the current financing model with a licence is maintained, has strong restrictions on advertising and sponsorship funding. Such funding contributes to further favouring the NRK over the other commercial competitors. The Party considers that the compulsory television licence system clearly confers a clear competitive advantage on the NRK. We also believe that the television licence has a clearly questionable principle. A relevant comparison may be that all newspaper readers were forced to subscribe to a particular newspaper before they were allowed to read other newspapers. Furthermore, the Party notes that the Government is considering establishing a system for the opening of subscription registers for distribution companies to the NRK's licence register. We understand that they want to take stolen goods, but are very critical of such interconnections of data registers. As you can see from the setting, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party are asking the Ministry to assess whether students listed in the People's Register with a similar address as their parents or supervisors can be exempted from the NRK fee. There are currently at least four different forms of distribution for television and radio. The analogue TV groundnet is the oldest, and currently has a decreasing market share, while cable networks and satellite antennas have shared most of the rest of the TV market. In addition, broadband has a small but strongly growing market share. The majority of the population, against the votes of the Progress Party, have decided to build a digital ground network to replace the analogue one. This network is now being opened. The progress party is critical to the digital ground net based on economics and the question of whether it is the right choice of technology. We have also been critical of the cost to consumers of receipt boxes and subscription schemes. With this, I would like to address the proposals put forward by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on their own in the vote alone, and the proposal by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on their part.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e560	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e563	The main overall objective of the government's media policy is to ensure freedom of expression, security and a living democracy. St.meld. No 30 for 2006-2007 provides us with a good basis for a review of the many key media policy issues raised as a consequence of the digital technology now being introduced. In particular, this message raises a debate on the importance and possibilities of public broadcasting in the future. This is a necessary and important debate, not least in relation to the future of the NRK. Technological opportunities and changing user habits are well described in the message, and it is important to be aware of the cultural developments that result from the developments we are now experiencing. The possibility of narrower elections and high international availability poses several challenges both in terms of the democratic role of the media, such as: the discussion of public broadcasting and issues related to cultural policy considerations. The technological changes that are now being implemented will dramatically change the framework conditions — economically as regulatory. The radio media has particular challenges related to the transition from analogue to digital signals. This means taking into account a more flexible transition to a new platform. The wide range of radio services is important and must be maintained in the future. The radio media consists of a very complex group — from the small local radios to the NRK and large private media houses. It is important that, in the future, we have the opportunity to maintain the breadth of our offer. It is a central political task ahead of us to take the lead in the NRC. The development of the NRK to become a modern media house challenges several of the national boundaries, in particular in relation to the competitive situation, programme profile and production unit. It is particularly important to have clean borderlines in relation to the commercial activities of the NRK. This will be an important discussion in the context of the current public broadcasting poster – the borderline between the governance tools to be used by the State and the implications of these choices for the policy governance of the NRC. SV believes that the general programming plaque is a good way to take different considerations into account in the management of the NRK. It is important that the poster is general and in principle, but not too detailed. SV considers it necessary for the Ministry to carry out a review of the Media Ownership Act. It is necessary to consider whether the law should be extended to regulate vertical integration, as well as whether the law should also regulate electronic media, including online newspapers and web television. The Communication points to the significant vertical integration that is taking place throughout the media, and in addition, the Committee focuses on the increasing degree of horizontal integration. This may lead to a risk of weakening competition, even if the law so requires. It is important now that the issue of cross-subsidies is followed very closely. The NRK must as clearly as possible distinguish between the public broadcasting offer and any commercial services offered on their website. It is important for SV to stress – and it is also important for consumers – that there should be no advertising on sites that have children as a target group. It's a special responsibility the NRK has. Special attention shall be paid to children and young people. It's not a secret, but I want to stress it in the end, that SV will keep the NRK as a state owned, advertising-free and licence-funded public broadcasting. In this context, I would also like to highlight what we have said in the setting, that 25 pst. of the Verbal Entries in the NRK shall be in New Norse.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e589	In St.meld. No 30 for 2006-2007, Broadcasting in a digital future, provides the Government with a good review of key media policy issues. Not least, the Government raises a necessary debate on the importance of public broadcasting. The concept of "public broadcasting" was a good thing about NRK for a long time. Today it also includes TV 2, Channel 24 and P4. As licence-funded broadcasters, the NRK has a special responsibility to offer programmes in Norwegian and based on Norwegian culture and tradition. I would particularly like to highlight NRK's district missions, which also have an important role in society both in terms of language policy and in terms of information. Children and young people spend a lot of time using the media. The provision of television for children and young people is enhanced by the expansion of commercial channels. Therefore, it is gratifying that the NRK is very well informed about children’s programmes and that one strengthens the efforts of children and young people. In nine days, NRK will launch its own children's channel – NRK Super. Today it is such that at least 25 pst. of the Verbal Entries of the NRK shall be in New Norse. The Christian People's Party believes that this must also apply to children's and young people's programmes. The NRK shall contribute to strengthening Norwegian language, identity and culture. Therefore, it is important that children are given both objectives to the right, including in programmes targeted at children and young people. Today, very little news is sent in children’s and young people’s programmes at the NRK. Efforts to get more news in programmes targeting children and young people in the NRK need to be increased. This has to do with both identity and confidence in the language that many people speak. Broadcast charges are a recurring theme. It is imperative to find solutions that satisfy all groups. We need a system that ensures the NRK stable and robust framework conditions and enables the NRK to fulfil its public broadcasting mission as fully as possible. The Christian People's Party is satisfied that the licensing arrangement is being continued. I find it difficult today to see other solutions that better secure the NRK's economy. The Christian People’s Party wants students in the People’s Register to be exempt from the licence fee. Today, 17-year-olds who are on the dormitory to go to secondary school have to pay for a license. Also students who live at home and have student loans are actually required to pay their own license, according to the NRK's licensing regulations. This seems unimaginable and is actually unknown to many students. The Ministry should present a case on this issue, where one looks at the different aspects and limitations associated with this. There has to be a clear distinction between publicly funded services and commercial product and services in the NRC. I'm glad that the NRK's statutes are changed, so one has to show special attention to content that exposes children to commercial pressure. The Bondevik government established measures to improve the quality of children and young people in the meeting with the commercial expressions, e.g. through the action plans ‘Children, young people and the Internet’ in 2001 and ‘No commercial pressure on children and young people’ in 2003. Here was a special sale of spin off product mentioned, and one must be quite clear that commercial interests do not affect editorial content. Magne Lero writes in the UK newspaper Ledelse on October 10th this year: ‘If the broadcaster, Hans-Tore Bjerkaas, intends to send daily drawings of a nice version of Keno, this suggests a lack of gait. He must get out of his pocket to Norwegian Tipping and Trond Giske. The NRK shall not be an instrument in the Government's game policy. A collective opposition shows up in the debate's recent time of the game Keno. These parties don't think it should be a public broadcaster's role to promote state gambling, or to be an actor in gambling policy. The Christian People's Party launched an interpellation prior to summer to co-ownership in the media market. The starting point for the debate was Telenor's role as a media actor. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for a continuous debate on ownership structures in the media market. If a commercial operator is given too strong a position in both the infrastructure and the content market, it may be a tool to potentially abuse its position. That is why we need an up-to-date regulatory framework. From the point of view of media shortages and a variety of premiscuousness in society, we are prone to ownership interests being thoroughly illuminated. The Christian People's Party would like to welcome a review of the media ownership laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e618	There is a broad consensus on most of the challenges that are addressed in the message we are discussing today, whether we in the Left do not see that it is very brave in dealing with some of the challenges we face, especially the technological ones, and that there are some old-fashioned answers to new challenges. I want to start with a little comment that only the Right and the Left support. I'm actually a little surprised that it just got the support of the Right and the Left. Is the public broadcasting role in a new era? Obviously, it's changed a lot. I believe that the reason for having a public broadcaster at a time of as many media offers as it is today is very different from when we were going to build up a media offer. My horror vision is a world of many televisions, where the poorest sail in small backrooms in the back streets of Cairo have their TV on it. At a time when it has become so easy to create TV programs as it is today, you can only go in and select the TV channel that already has your opinions, that already has your opinions, that already has the political angle you want, and that already has what you already can. Then you can put on that channel, and then that channel can tell you all your life how reality is -- just from your point of view. That's why I think it's actually a threat to the whole world's opinion -- you're just choosing the TV channels that already have the opinion you have, and you don't even have TV channels that are there to challenge you, to inform you, to strive for objectivity, and to strive for not to belong to a particular opinion. I think it is very important in the media everyday we are facing today that someone is striving for objectivity and information. That it's just the Right and the Left that have joined this comment, I think I'm actually quite perceptive. So to the other, smaller questions. The Left wishes to promote its proposal for a licence. We think it's nice to have a public broadcaster that's funded the way it is, but we think today's license is old-fashioned. It is very strongly linked to which technology you want to obtain information from, while it does not take into account that you can see today's NRK also from your PC, mobile phone, etc. We think one should have been more modern compared to that. We believe it is a major commercial challenge for the NRK that they have the website for which it is most advertised in Norway today. In fact, it is not possible to watch a TV program without reference to a commercial web portal in relation to a non-commercial offer. I also think it is a challenge that we are very strict – and SV limits very strongly – in relation to advertising. Anyone who has an attitude toward blue nisoles knows that advertising is so much. Advertising and product placement have met entirely new challenges. Here we have a lot of old-fashioned, socialist legislation that really doesn't address the challenges specifically related to children and young people. The Christian People's Party argued a little bit for language. I want to add an extra perspective. The reason why the Left and Christian People's Party stands together here in the comment on children is also about which children are recruited to communicate with Norwegian children. I think it's a warning to Norwegian TV channels that you're essentially recruiting from one city in the city I'm from, when it comes to recruiting kids to talk to other kids. It is a challenge that at least a public broadcaster should address. Vertical integration is mentioned. It's one of the major challenges in media ownership that I don't think Government is at all taking into account in this message. It's also about a slightly old-fashioned attitude to ownership. The last thing I realize is that Stortinget cannot go in and decide, is that a Norwegian public broadcaster joins a Norwegian state game operator in order to take revenue from volunteering, and ensure that you pusher games in the best possible time. I really don't understand that it should be neither the role of a public broadcaster nor the role of Norwegian Typing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e637	The broadcast announcement in the digital future is a thorough review of the many key media policy issues raised by media developments. Wide political outreach on the main principles in this field is good. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee endorses all the Government's proposals, much also with the support of the opposition. It gives predictability and long-termity to the actors in this sector. The broadcasting media is changing quite dramatically. Therefore, there is a need to review broadcasting policy. In the fall, the digital earthnet opened up to television. The forthcoming phasing-out of analogue ground-based broadcasts will mean that all households will have to switch to a digital television platform. The switch from analogue to digital technology will include, inter alia: provide the public with an ever-increasing range of channels. At the same time, broadcasting media are being challenged by brand-new actors. We see that the audience's media consumption spreads on many media and becomes more fragmented. In particular, the provision of the Internet is taking more and more of the attention of the public. These changes mean that we need to rethink the policy in the field. Yesterday's solutions have not been given to suit the media markets of tomorrow. The overall theme of the Storting Communication is how general programming policy should be adapted to the new media image. This applies, for example: the media offer the market itself could be expected to produce in the next few years. From 2010, TV 2 will no longer be subject to public broadcasting obligations. Media researchers have shown that commercial broadcasters will downgrade ‘unprofitable’ programme categories and audiences. The NRC and the broadcasting charge are public measures aimed at correcting the ‘market failure’ that may occur in an unregulated market. The NRC is the country's most important cultural institution and will play a very central role in providing public broadcasting. The aim is for the NRK to be able to maintain and further develop this position. The NRK should also be an attractive and significant media player on new platforms. Therefore, the NRK’s general programming tasks should also include new media services, including: on the Internet and mobile platforms. Both the NRK’s programme archive and current programme production are made available through NRK’s online offer. The main principle shall be that the NRK’s public broadcasting services are free of charge. Another important principle is that the NRC strives to make a clear distinction as far as possible between the public broadcasting services and the commercial expressions offered on the website. This should, for example: imply that download services provided within the NRK’s public broadcasting mission do not contain advertising spots. Websites with children as a target shall also not include advertising. The current statutes do not adequately reflect technological and market developments, but are concentrated primarily on the traditional programme activities of the NRC. The Communication states that a public broadcasting poster – a NRK poster – should be created to clarify overall policy expectations and requirements for NRK’s activities. It has been submitted to Stortinget as its own case and will be dealt with there. If the Storting joins the NRK poster, the statutes will then be harmonised in line with the Size Decision. We also look at the need for such a NRK poster, because in this context, too, the Committee does so many times before – I have been involved in it myself: introduce new demands and expectations, about language content and what programmes it is going to apply, etc. These are quite relevant issues, it is quite legitimate for the Stortinget to discuss them, but we should gather them in one place, namely in connection with the NRK poster and revise it at regular intervals. There is a broad consensus on broadcasting policy. The clearest party is the Progress Party, which will once again split up and privatise the NRK and wind up the broadcasting fee. This, if implemented, will not only affect the NRK and the programmes they offer and the audiences they reach, but it will also affect the commercial TV market and the radio market because it will simply not be advertising funding enough to finance them at the same time as the NRK is to be publicly funded. Thus, both the commercial broadcasting service and the public broadcasting service offer are getting worse with such a policy. The main message also provides guidance for the digitisation of radio. The Norwegian radio market is small, and we are in many ways praised for developments elsewhere in Europe. We assume that technology choices related to digitisation should continue to be driven by actors. This means that we mainly want to build on the principles established by the Stortinges treatment of the notification Broadcasting and the daily press etc. 1996. There will be the audience's choice of medium, of platform, which will mainly determine the pace of digitisation of the radio medium.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e657	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e660	In the last few days, there has been some media focus on the fact that RiksTV has not complied with its concession and offers single channels. The party of progress is critical of this and calls for action from the Council of State. However, we are not alone in calling for this action. Yesterday I received an enquiry from the Consumer Council, which I will quote from: ‘In the context of tomorrow’s handling of the Storting Communication ‘Circking in a Digital Future’, we wish to express support for the Progress Party in the view that the offer to consumers is too poor. We have long been disappointed that the RiksTv concession is used in such a way that consumers are not given the opportunity to choose individual channels themselves. The digital added value is missing!’ This is what the Consumer Council of Hans Marius Graasvold said in an enquiry to me. My question to the Council of State is: what will the Council of State do to ensure that RiksTV complies with its concession?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e674	Let me first say that the expansion of the digital ground network just ensures a digital added value. This means that Norway as a whole has access to up to six free channels and also has the opportunity to purchase different payment channels. If the Progress Party had got a pass on its proposal, namely that the digital ground net should not be expanded, this would have been a much more difficult situation. If we, who are now in government, had in our time been able to see through to our proposal that the public should expand the digital ground net, we would have far better control over this. We didn't get a majority for that, and it was a private solution. An offerer came on the track, it was NTV. They entered into negotiations, presented their proposal and got a contract. This contract is then interpreted by the Media Regulatory Board when there are issues of dispute or confusion, and they have reached their conclusion. It can't be that we, as politicians, are going to enter into that kind of contract and put in new leads in retrospect. We don't have any reason for that. We just have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e681	The Council of State correctly points out in its statement that the Storting needs some cross points in order to be able to comment on the issue of the NRK. He believes that the public broadcaster poster can be a good starting point for that. In recent times, we have had some discussion about NRK’s marketing of games, and a theme that has come up then is whether the NRK can consider itself part of national gambling policy. It's been claimed by the NRK. I'll ask the question a little bit differently. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he believes that the marketing of games will be a natural part of the public broadcasting mission.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e690	No, I don't see the marketing of games as a natural part of the public broadcasting mission. I might see it as part of NRK's entertainment program portfolio. But it is also subject to the Editorial poster, and I think it is alarming that some of the biggest representatives – not from the Right, but from other opposition parties – believe that the Minister of Culture should intervene in the NRK editor’s choice of which entertainment programmes he wants to send. I think that might make the need to legislate the Editor's poster even stronger. Then I believe that if Stortinget has clear views about which games we are going to offer and not, or how to set up the game policy – whether we are going to market the games less, etc. – we can do this as the regulator of the game policy and as the owner of Norsk Typing and not against those who Norsk Typing chooses to use as partners in the marketing. I hope that the opposition will clarify whether they want Lotto to be removed from the NRK as well, because we have no scientific basis to say that Keno is more dangerous than Lotto. The conclusion of the opposition must be that Lotto is going away from Saturday night. It's going to be interesting to hear the reactions to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e699	I have two questions for the Council of State. The first is: Is the Council satisfied with the neo-normskadel in the NRK Children's and Youth Programme? The second question concerns licensing and students. Everyone who has a student loan and a TV will pay a license, regardless of their age and their cages. There is a clarification in the regulations of the NRK licence where it says: ‘Recipients belonging to a family located in a leisure home, cabin, caravan, recreational boat or other means outside the dwelling shall be covered by the same charge provided that no permanent residence is established in those premises. ‘... But those who have a student loan are not considered to be dependants of others, and are required to pay a separate fee even if they live at home. So here, both students who live at home, and possibly 17-18-year-olds who are out studying, have to pay a license. Is the Council of State in agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e711	I cannot quantify the proportion of new Norwegian in the different programme categories in the NRK, but I agree with the principle approach of Molvær Grimstad – that the neural scandal must be spread across different categories – but not necessarily exactly on the percentage. You can't fulfill the nynorcy part only in one program category, it has to be a width over it. I believe this is a question that belongs just in the public broadcasting poster discussion. There, at least if the Government's proposal goes through, we actually get a tightening, clearer and clearer demand for the NRC in the field of culture, and here, too, the language share comes in. With regard to the licence and different household members – there are many issues around it: people who live away, people who are commuters, etc. – we believe that the proposal presented by the opposition will result in more difficult implementation of the licence collection. But we have to be always open to discuss adjustments in order for the license to be seen as fair, because I think that's the basis for us to charge it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e718	Now I'm going to try to get the Council of State to clarify, because that's a little bit of the point of the round, and not the other way around. I want to ask the council, not about his relationship to the NRK, but about his relationship to Norwegian Tipping. I don't think there are so many left-wing people who would have missed Lotto either, sail if there must be a difference between a game you play when you go into a commissioner, and a game you play from your cell phone. But are there any games that the Norwegian Board of Governors did not seem to have been a good idea to serve over a public broadcaster? Is he willing to set any limits on what Norwegian Typing is allowed to develop from new games? So I hope he might answer yes or no to the following questions about RiksTV: Is the Council of State satisfied, and does he think it's okay, that the citizens of Norway are not allowed to choose which channels they get in addition to what the state has chosen?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e727	In the case of new games, there's not exactly any rush. The last new game that came from Norsk Tipping was – as far as I remember – Joker. It came in 2000. So Keno came in 2007. One game every seven years, I think we almost have to live with if we want Norwegian Typing to be able to renew its products, and if we want Norwegian Typing to be the company that will offer Norwegian games. So Norwegian Typing must of course market this in a responsible way. There has been a broad consensus on this. The way to market the products was practised also during the previous government, I believe it should be up to Norsk Tipping to find partners in that respect. Of course, if you want to limit NRK activity in this area, the public broadcasting poster is an option. I can't believe you have to discriminate between Keno and Lotto, because there's nothing to suggest that Keno is anything more addictive than Lotto. But then you have to stand for it, then, and say this is going away from the TV screen. I am so that the audience can choose single channels, and we want to discuss it more closely, but the concession given to NTV/RiksTV does not provide the basis for demanding that each channel be individually purchased.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e736	I'd like to ask the Council a little bit about how the state that owns governs the NRK. We see in this message that there is a lot of tailor-made seams, and a lot of the tailor-made seams are in and on their own quite well justified. It would probably have been an advantage for the opposition if we had had transparency in the debate about the general programming poster before we kind of looked at the whole thing of it, because it's clear that it represents an important backtrace. We get a lot of restrictive and regulatory conditions here. This concerns the prior approval of the Media Regulatory Authority, as regards what is to be reported at the general meeting: ‘all measures that may have an impact on NRK’s public broadcasting services or that are otherwise closely related to the public broadcasting offer’. It is a rather demanding task for the board of directors of the NRK to sort out which sandwich list to set up for the General Assembly, the Council of State, the next time, and it might seem quite detailed and restrictive. Does the Council have a comment on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e743	Yeah, that's actually the thought that Thommessen is now saying, which is the reason why we want to present a NRK poster. Because we experience that we are dealing with so many issues that have consequences for the NRK, in different contexts – in broadcasting, in media messaging, in budgetary contexts, in Document No. 8-proposals, Question Time, written questions, etc. – that the sum becomes either unmanageable to the NRK, or it becomes unmanageable to the NRK. Both for our own part as politicians in relation to having arm's length distance from editorial content and the editor's responsibility, and also to see the whole of the requirements we set, this is – I think – a sensible way to do it. We have thought that it was better to take the main features of broadcasting policy first and clarify the role of the NRK in the entire media image and then go to the requirements of the NRK. But it's clear that many of the questions we're dealing with here, in the next round, will also have consequences for the NRK poster. So I like the treatment of the NRK poster, because I think it'll be a useful exercise for us both because the NRK is so important, and also because it cleans up a little bit in our approach to NRK as an institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e751	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e756	There are some slightly different things I feel the need to address. Firstly, it is about the non-commercial channel of volunteering in the digital groundnet. In the context of the annual budget, the Right promotes a proposal to link support schemes to this channel to masterless inheritance. In this context, we hope that the Department will think this is a good idea and contribute to finding a comprehensive solution. Here, of course, the question of editorial responsibility and good organisation needs to be clarified. With regard to the issue of media ownership law, it may surprise some that we do not support the proposal of the Progress Party to wind up the entire law by this crossroads. The background for this is that in this context, we find the discussion to be of primary interest on the issue of vertical integration. In that context, we think it is a little too early to re-click the door, even though we do not have great expectations that the Media Ownership Act is the solution. But the proposal makes it very clear that it is in this relationship, and that is why we are not going to support it this time. I would like to say that we support the broad lines of the approach to the Communication in terms of the distinction between NRC's public broadcasting activities and commercial activities. There's a lot of things you could take care of there. It is important that there is ample room for commercial operators and other television channels in the media market elsewhere. In this way, we believe that there should be a restrictive approach, and we do also feel that the main features of the communication are relevant. So it's about commercial actors in life after the digital ground net is running, in relation to public broadcasting. We think one should have a limited expectation of how to impose tasks in the future, just because technology will make us have a bigger generalization. We think it is important to look at what positive tool we can contribute to, because it is clear that we also want us to have a wide range of options. We also think that there is reason to take note of the chapter on the role of the Media Authority, and we look forward to the matter to be raised about it. We note that the point of prior approval of part of the activities undertaken by the NRK is largely related to market issues and to competitive issues. It is then important to also see this in relation to the tasks of the Competition Authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e771	It's true, as the Council of State says, that the Progress Party was critical of the digital ground net that has now begun to roll out. We were critical both on the basis of the economy and the question of whether it was the right choice of technology. We have also been critical of the cost to consumers of receiving boxes and subscription schemes. But of course we take note that the web is now being rolled out, and that this is something that politicians here in the Storting must relate to. We believe that there is reason to ask questions about the ownership structure – i.e. NRK, TV 2, Telenor – of NTV/RiksTV contributes to the consumer’s best interests. It may seem a little lucky from the point of view of competition. We also have a concern that NRK and TV 2 with their involvement in this area can use their position to create an even more dominant position compared to other competitors. We've already seen examples of this, like the attempts to squander the innovation Viasat 4 as a free channel. We see it as important that the politicians at Stortinget are observant and look after and try to defend the interests of consumers. That's also why we mentioned this, which we believe is a breach of RiksTV's concession when you don't offer single channels. I record the defensive position of the Council of State in this context, but I cannot agree when the Council of State points out that it is because this is a purely private actor. It seems that the Council of State does not have any possibility of intervention, among other things. to the NRK, and we all know that the Council of State is a very central player as a general assembly. Otherwise, I notice that the Council of State determines categorically that if the model of the Progress Party for the NRK had been implemented, it would have led to everything going wrong in Media-Norway. Now I don't have the Giske glass ball and impressive ability to look into the future, but I'm going to think that the effect would be about the same as what we saw in the 1990s, when we started getting some competitors to the NRK monopoly: even more freedom, even more consumer choice and even more diversity and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e778	Just a comment to Thommessen first and foremost, which addressed a number of themes that may not be so comprehensively discussed in the message, among other things. The question of vertical integration, where we raise the issue, describes that this can be a challenge, and says that we need to get back to a closer investigation as to whether more stringent rules are needed. I note that there has been a discussion about this in the Stortinget in other contexts as well, and I am pleased that Thommessen signals that the Right can also participate in looking at the need for legislation beyond the Competition Act in this sector. There's something else to do with newspapers, TV, radios, than to do shoe sales and sausage boobs. It's about democracy, it's about freedom of expression, it's about the infrastructure of public conversation, and we're about ensuring that the diversity that we need is there. It may go beyond the economic aspects, which the Competition Act primarily regulates. Then there are other issues raised by the Progress Party, the Right and the Left in their comments, on the supervisory authorities, platform neutral instruments and funding. Well, this isn't going to be the last broadcast message a government is going to present. This field is constantly changing, technology is changing the rules of the game almost every day. That's why we're going to have to come back several times to ask: how are our instruments designed to achieve the same objectives of democracy, diversity, accessibility, programmes for all audiences, etc. at a time when technology and the market look different? So Ulf Erik Knudsen takes up the question of the digital ground net. He reminds me a little of Dagbladet, who is known to be against priests, but for female priests. The node is towards the digital ground-tight, but it's for the digital ground-tight to select single channels individually. Then Knudsen is worried that it's monopoly. Yes, I am of the opinion that once there is one actor and monopoly, the public should actually run it. It's a very sensible approach – it's very difficult to get a functioning market if there's only one actor. That's why we thought in our time that the public should expand the digital ground net, as in Sweden. It would have been better to regulate the channel offer. Now you have chosen another solution. It was negotiations when the concession was granted, and then RiksTV made it clear that they did not have such financial opportunities, and that it was not within their offer, to offer to buy individual channels individually. We will continue to work to ensure that consumers can be solved from these packages, not just on the digital ground, but on all platforms. There has to be a goal we have in common, but we can't break concession agreements and contracts that have been concluded, nor go backwards as the owner of the NRK, who then owns 1/3 of RiksTV, etc. We have to be proper in relation to such things.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e789	Just briefly to the question of vertical integration and regulation in that area: the Council of State had taken the point quite correctly, that the Right does not close any doors in relation to what we want to do in terms of how to deal with that issue. We don't give that expression of great enthusiasm for the media ownership law as such, but it's now even where it is, and then we'll see what the department comes up with. We also see that EU developments are moving towards a clearer distinction between the carrier and the content provider. But in the EU context, there is no special requirement for owners to be different. I think that's an important point to take with me. It is important to us that we do not impose unnecessary difficulties on Norwegian operators in the way in which they operate and, I would say, given that Norwegian ownership in this context is not particularly high. This has made it easy to become a discussion about Telenor. I would like to remind you that Telenor is a giant in another small market and that the other players in the Norwegian market are relatively small. It is important that we do not now set up a race – and have Telenor in our head – which means that we will crush the whole package of eggs when we regulate the area in the next round. In this context, in the last few weeks, the right has aired a different approach, which is about thinking about something similar to the one that applies when we buy power. When you buy electricity online, the Internet service providers, or those who own the networks, have an obligation to bring the power, wherever it comes from, to you as a user. We think it might be an interesting starting point for thinking about even this type of delivery. It's an approach that doesn't make it as urgent to share ownership and have very strict rules on it, and that might be more flexible and flexible compared to the different, even smaller, actors we find the country across. I hope that the department, when it comes to this field, will also investigate the alternative race, for example. based on the reasoning that I'm now mentioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e796	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 648]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e816	There are in particular three reasons why I am now travelling this interpellation. Firstly, following its accession, the Government has used its majority in the Grand Duchy to make changes to the Law on the Information Society's Fund which helps to weaken the Fund and the ability to pursue the Fund's objectives as set out in the Basic Law, § 106. Both the decision to dispose of up to 30 pst. the return from the fund and the decision to abolish the inflation hedge are examples of that. Second, it was at kgl. the resolution of 12 September this year established a new Santa Claus Directive which will have a significant impact on the Fund. The instruction raises several questions, but the relationship with the Basic Law § 106 in particular is relevant. Thirdly, through its draft budget, the Government helps to advance the treatment of the ownership of the fund by any distinction between the Church and the State. The 2008 budget of the Ministry of Culture and the Church, on page 180, that the Fund belongs to the State, has rightly given considerable attention. There are in particular two reasons for this. Firstly, the wording is a breach of previous wording. It's very short, and it's not accompanied by any further justification. The wording is undoubtedly seen as an attempt by the Government on already, before Stortinget has got the case about the relationship between state and church for treatment, to determine what ownership is like. This contrasts sharply with the consensus between all parties, including government parties, in the treatment of St.meld. No 41 for 2005-2006. The government writes about ownership: ‘This means that the Government sees it as most natural to postpone the decision on the question of the selection setting. Furthermore, the Government considers that the issue of the ownership or disposition of the Information Society's fund by a possible distinction between the State and the Norwegian Church cannot be settled by legal judgement alone but by political decisions.» Int. S. No 108 for 2005-2006 an overall committee ends up doing so. Secondly, the wording is seen as a clear political decision to be adopted by the majority of the government parties in the Storting, thereby avoiding this important issue from its natural context which would have been associated with the treatment of the magnificence of the Church-State relationship. What, of course, further exacerbates the case is that the Government by this manoeuvre effectively removes a crucial theme from the list of issues on which broad political consensus is to be established in the Stortinget. The government knows very well what the positions in Stortinget are. All four opposition parties have written joint comments for two years with criticism of the Government's management of the Fund, and all the parties are united in criticising the budgetary proposition's statement of ownership. The opposition parties have said: «The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left point to the fact that the Foundation of the Information Society originates in the Church's properties from an old age and is the owner of significant values in the form of money and property.These members believe that public authorities cannot unilaterally waive responsibility for the maintenance of the churches by using the fund's funds for refurbishment.» In addition, the lots say: ‘that this use of the proceeds of the Information Society’s fund results in a reduction in the amount of money for the purposes for which the return was intended to be used. [[...]] This applies, inter alia, to: upgrading of the fund's vicarious dwellings. The information service fund is responsible for the management of the housing for the benefit of the pensioners, but there is a aftermath on the refurbishment of housing that causes many dwellings to be in very poor condition.» Furthermore, such management of the Fund will go beyond appropriations for community-building work, especially targeted at children, young people and the elderly. The point is that the opposition has promoted an overall criticism of the changes that are now taking place before we get the matter of state and church for treatment in Stortinget. At the same time, the Government has stated that it wants a broad and collective compromise in the Storting on the church system. The government knows very well that it will not be possible to create broad and aggregate compromises in the Storting along the lines of ownership and administration that the Government puts up. That is why it is, of course, much more comfortable to lift the issue out of the forthcoming negotiations and use the majority power to take the decision in advance. The government's report and management of the Information Society's fund has been alarming, very provocative, and it is unwise. Furthermore, I would like to make a few specific comments on the new Santa Claus directive, which will enter into force on 1 July 2008, and its consequences. The new instruction implies that the fund is required to adjust the fixation fee and trigger fasteners under conditions other than those resulting from the Law on Landing. With regard to the issue of the regulation of the fastening charge, paragraph 3 of the instruction states that the fund, which is then adamant, cannot rely on Section 15 of the second paragraph of the Law on Landing. 2nd@item: inlistbox The provisions of the Law on Landfills make it clear that the non-proprietary party may charge the fastening charge regulated in accordance with what is ‘manifestly’ agreed. Thus, the OVF cannot require such adjustment. In addition, point 4 of the instruction states that in cases where the fixation fee has been regulated on a different basis than after a change in the monetary value, e.g.: by being regulated in the light of changes in market value, between 1 January 2002 and 1 July 2008, the fixing fee shall be reduced. In the case of the right of way of redemption of fasteners, paragraph 2 of the instruction leads to the attachment being placed in a completely different and significantly more favourable situation than would have been the case if the normal rules of the law on the fastening of the land had been followed. Point 2 states that the first and second sentences of the first paragraph of Section 37 shall not apply and that the redemption price shall be set at 30 times ‘originally normal leased in accordance with the change in monetary value’. In addition, the instruction on this point states that if better conditions have been agreed for the attachment, these conditions shall prevail. The government now wants to make an addition to the Law on the Information Society's Fund § 5, so that the provision of the first paragraph of Section 5 is effectively eliminated in respect of large parts of the Fund's values. The first term is: «The property and capital of the fund cannot be given up or used up.» The proposed Appendix to Section 5 reads as follows: ‘In the case of fasteners under the fund which are assigned housing to the party, the fund may, without prejudice to the first subparagraph, offer a lower redemption price and a fixed fee than that resulting from the Santa Fee’. More questions are raised about the Santa Claus guide that is very interesting. Firstly, can the government at all dispose of the fund in such a way that it is drained for values, and that the carrying capacity is weakened over time? If the answer to that question is yes, the next question will be: Is it sufficient then to amend the OVF Act, or will such management and amendment of the law exceed the limits of what is permitted by the Constitution § 106? Paragraph 106 of the Constitution reads as follows: «As much as the income of the spiritual benefied of God shall be used only for the best of the clergy and the advancement of the enlightenment». The third question then is: should there then be a constitutional change to, in accordance with the procedures of the Basic Law § 112, in order for the Santa Claus directive to come into force? That's the exact same point that applies to the government's shooting of issues about ownership. Of course, the government wants at all costs to avoid this becoming a matter of constitutional change, simply because a constitutional change requires a majority different from this government in the staging room. It will be completely impossible for the Government to get a majority for a change to the Constitution, based on the things the Government's seas want to do with the fund, but it will of course be completely possible to use a normal simple majority to get a majority for a law change. There is little doubt that we are faced here with a significant redistribution and disposal of values that belong to the fund today. The attachment of residential spaces is about 80 pst. of the fund's total real estate portfolio of approx. Nine hundred plots. After the information service's own calculations, the instructions for redemption will result in a loss for the fund of between DKK 1 and DKK 1.25 billion, and the losses resulting from the instruction's prohibition on market value regulation will amount to between SEK 35 and 45 million. kr every one year. The Ministry of Justice's Legal Affairs Department states that: «The systematic re-disposal of significant parts of the fund's assets irrespective of the purpose of the fund and without any remuneration being provided would be an example of dispositions contrary to the fundamental law». As I see it, there can be no particular doubt that the Government is on very disquieting grounds in relation to the Constitution in this matter. Legally, in my opinion, it is not possible to claim that the redistribution of values that the instruction will contribute from the fund to individuals who thus receive a large financial gain is within the clear purpose set out by the Basic Law, Section 106. Politically, it is a mystery that the red-green government considers it reasonable to redistribute large sums from the community to random lucky individuals. Against this background, I ask the Council of State to explain the principles underlying the management of the Information Society Fund by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e897	Let me first say that I understand that the chairman of the committee has taken a legal examination in the spring with a glittering result, and you can also hear this post. Legally, it sounds like – at least for an unskilled person only with first department jus – a very good argument. But this is, above all, a political hall. We're going to deal with political issues. The question of the Information Society's fund and the Church's economy is also, to the most extent, political. With regard to the first question that the interpellant raises, namely the ownership of the Information Society's fund, I would like to use a few words other than mine. I would like to refer to the previous government, the government of Bondevik II, which, in the 2004–2005 session, submitted St.meld. No 41 on the economy of the Norwegian Church. The Department of Law of the Ministry of Justice – which also has a couple of people with legal qualifications – has taken into account: ‘In the light of this discussion, the conclusion of the Law Department is that the Church is not a legal entity of its own but a part of the State. The fact that the Information Society's fund is owned by the Church as such must therefore be excluded." And then it goes on to say: ‘After a review of the relevant legal sources and the historical background of the Information Society Fund, the Legal Service has come to believe that it must be considered safe’ – I repeat: as certain – ‘that the State is the owner of the Fund’. Then the previous government writes in the big message: ‘Although the State is the owner of the Information Service’s fund, however, it will be bound by the framework resulting from the First sentence of Section 106 of the Basic Law as regards the use of the funds. In addition, the State will be bound by the restrictions that may result from the Law on the Information Society Fund.’.» Then I just want to add: the current government has exactly the same opinion. The Bondevik government also wrote at the time that in any distinction between state and church, the property issue around the Information Society's fund will be a political issue. And we're going to end up with that. This is completely unnecessary to address an interpellation, because this was answered to the Stortinget in relation to budgetary questions raised by the Church and Education Committee. On 26 October 2007, we wrote a letter on this subject. So both the previous government and the current government say that the state is the owner of the Information Society's fund. What happens to a distinction is a political question. I just have to add that the Church's economy in a possible distinction between state and church is much more than the ownership of the Information Society's fund. The OVF fund can operate the Church for a year or two, and I assume that the opposition also agrees with it at least in national elections, that we – the community – have a responsibility to facilitate financially the religious communities and groups in Norway, much more than the Information Society's fund can. If there is a distinction between state and church, the state and perhaps also the municipalities must contribute much more than only the Information Society's fund will. So such a settlement is about a lot more than the information service's fund. So ask the interpellant about the returns, and refers to some changes that have been made, among other things. in inflation hedges, etc. Yes, there have been some changes in how to use the surplus of the Information Society's fund, and what is surplus, among other things. the question of using only pure returns — i.e. interest — or whether you should use the capitalisation of things you have invested in. Everyone knows — minus some municipalities in the Nordic countries, of course — that when you invest in something, part of the gain is not only interest and income, but also capital appreciation. So you buy one thing, and then you sell it later with a significantly higher value. All that we can use of the fund through the new rules goes for church purposes, so it's not like you're weakening the Church by changing these rules for the Information Society's fund. After all, one strengthens church activity by making use of more of the profits that the Educational Society’s Fund actually creates, for church purposes. So to present it as a kind of weakening of the Church, is something I don't know about. Then the question is what purpose is the Information Society's fund to cover. And that's where we're pretty much following the same guidelines and the same political lines that previous governments have followed. And of course, you get to the question that the interpellant spent the most time on, the question of Santa Claus. Here there is deep political disagreement between the particular party Right and also others in the opposition, and the government parties, at least some of them. After all, we would have wanted from the Labour Party at the time this was dealt with, that we should have completely different rules on how people who are housed on a fenced plot would get better out financially, because many around Norway have experienced an increase in the rates that have been quite dramatic. I recently saw a debate on TV about the Right that was so concerned about cabin owners who could not afford to inherit cabins. I think it was cabins for 4-5 million. Mr Sanner referred to on TV. I think you should be more concerned about all those who have both cabins and houses, and who experience a rather dramatic increase in the party fees on their properties. It makes ordinary people have problems with the economy. We have established in our regulation that the Information Society's fund should also be included in the policy we want from the state in the field of Santa Claus. Here we just have to accept that there is a disagreement between the opposition, as represented by the party Right and possibly the other, and the government parties. What we're saying, however, is that even if we introduce these new property rules, the Church's economy should not be weakened. This means that if the representative of Soreide has the right to have the return that the fund can offer to the Church every year weakened by the new rules on the land, it has to be compensated in other ways, so that the Church's economy is thus equal. The essential thing for church activity is what you have at your disposal, what you can use for the different activities. And there we say very clearly that this should stand firm. This shall be maintained. The Church shall not be affected if the rules on emptying so apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e930	It is rare that I experience such a defensive state council as what we have just witnessed in this room. Firstly, I believe this is a highly relevant question to ask, both in relation to the property of the Information Service's fund and not least in relation to the new Santa Claus directive that will enter into force next year. I therefore believe that it is not unnecessary to take up in the interpellation form that these conditions create considerable unrest both in the Church and elsewhere. I think it's a little remarkable how the Council of State is trying to get away from what I spent a lot of time on in my post, namely the relationship between the Santa Claus directive and the Basic Law § 106. As far as I heard, the Council of State was not involved in the relationship with the Constitution at all. I think that is quite striking, because there is little doubt that the relationship with the Basic Law § 106 is a core question in relation to how the new Santa Claus directive can come into force, and it is also a core question in relation to the validity of the decisions that are now taken. The Council of State was concerned that there should be a significant increase in the concern that some people who have fast rooms where there are houses and cabins have been significantly cancelled their party fee. It is well possible that the Council of State is right in that regard, but that is not what this matter is about. This issue concerns the simple question: why should it be that those who attach land owned by the Information Society Fund should be asked in a much more favourable situation than other landowners? If the government was only concerned about the economy of those who are attaching plots, they could simply use the exact same rules of the Information Society Fund plots as they have for all other plots that people attach. There is no reason why the property stock through the Information Society's fund should suddenly be subject to a significant deterioration as a result of the application of completely different rules to the fund's fasteners than to all other fasteners. Finally, I would like to make a comment to the attention of the Council of State, as is also stated in the letter of consultation, that there is a prerequisite for a change in the law that the Church's economy should not be weakened. Well, first of all, the Council of State is very well aware that there is no legal commitment to foreshadowing that there may be money in future budgets. The state council knows that well. It depends on decisions in Stortinget. Secondly, such a premise is not really directed at the same recipient, because the Norwegian Church and the Information Society's fund are two different things. Then you can discuss ownership, but the two recipients are different, so I think it becomes unexplained. I hope the Council of State will come back with a more detailed discussion, especially about the relationship between the Santa Claus directive and the Basic Law § 106.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e943	The government of course assumes that what we are doing is within the framework of the Constitution, also § 106. No government, I think, assumes that what you do, and the way you act, violates the Constitution. So there are of course test possibilities for whether what we do, both in the staging hall and in the government, is in line with the Constitution. In that case, the Constitutional Test is the case, and Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has, in my view, submitted a good application as a candidate to sue the case as his first main proceedings. So this is something that other people have to decide about, we're of course assuming that this is within the Basic Law § 106. So I think it is alarming that you say that because everyone else regulates their property fee to the roof and ends up in both legal proceedings and other matters because you push the boundary of land regulations as hard as you can, so we as a state must do it. No, no, no. We can have our sensible approach to how we deal with the state's land policy, and how we manage our properties. It's not that the argument 'everyone else is doing it' is always the best reason why you should do what you actually think is both unfair and wrong. I also don't think that the interpellant answered very clearly whether she agreed or disagreed with the Bondevik government and the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice – and if she wonders who ran the Ministry of Justice, she can talk to people who are close to her – who said clearly that it is considered safe that the State is the owner of the Information Society's fund. I cannot understand that the opposition is going to attack the Government to say exactly the same sentence as they said in St.meld. No 41 for the period 2004-2005, that ‘the State must be deemed to be the owner of the fund’. It can't be said more clearly. I think we might say it a little bit weaker in the proposition. We're just saying that the state is the owner of the fund. We should perhaps say that it is certain that the state is the owner of the fund. Perhaps the opposition had then been satisfied, because then we had used the exact same wording as them. And then another correction finally: OVF is not a receiver. We say that the Church's economy should be secured through the measures we take. OVF is a supplier of economics for various church purposes. Among other things, the Church Council gets money from there. These are the transfers we want to ensure are maintained in a future situation. Whatever happens to the fund, these ecclesiastical purposes should come out just as well or better, and that's the most important thing for those who run our people's church.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e954	The interpellant raises questions about the information service's fund and property rights. The issue is not new, it has been explained by the Council of State, and the outcome of this discussion and this issue has to be decided later, namely during the examination of the State-Church question. Although this debate may contain many quotations from debates in Stortinget, from investigations and communications, I would like to refer to the treatment of stock exchanges and cathedrals. There I think the vast majority of the parties, when questions were raised about the owner of the OVF, said something such as that the question has little practical interest and will have to find its political solution in any future change in the legal relations between the Church and the State. This is not hard to agree with, and so there was a lot of agreement about it at the time. I think it's interpretations that are out there and go like it's hard to deal with. In some contexts, I record that these are the signals that this gives, that it says that the OVF belongs to the state, which is worried. The fact that this is in the budget is interpreted as a negative signal. There are also some who have said that it may seem that the government in this case has concluded in the state-church question. At the same time one says in some contexts that as long as we have a state church, the church's property in and of itself is also the property of the state. So on the one hand one understands that it belongs to the state, but on the other hand one is concerned about the signals that this gives. Then one can almost ask: who is sending out what signal? I note that there is some concern from several teams – of course from the opposition, but also from the Church – that the proposed use of funds from the OVF will drain the fund for funds that would otherwise have been used for purposes that are more in line with given intentions. Here I think, among other things. in the rehabilitation of churches, which some consider to be a state responsibility alone, and to which the OVF should not contribute. Here I must be allowed to say that we do not have the intention to drain the fund to drain it. Some people actually go so far as to claim that OVF is being robbed. Our intention is, among other things: more rehabilitation of church buildings. I think it is strange that the proposal for changes in favour of the Santa Claus almost comes as a surprise. It has been known for a long time, and at least since this government joined. But I don't like it. We don't like the OVF feeling exposed to playback that makes them uncertain about the future. However, we are pleased that there will be an increase in value and a return increase from the OVF. But we don't like the Norwegian Church feeling that the economy is being attacked by the proposed measures. When we know at the same time that the local economy is very important to the Church's economy, we don't understand the concern in this context, but we don't like the Church feeling that way. That's what we want to take seriously. This does not mean that we believe that the economy is at the optimal point right now. We know it's not. That is why we must continue to work to make better use of the funds and to have a better dialogue between the Church, the Council of Socs, the Council of Commons and the Municipality, so that the economy can improve. In order to clear up uncertainty, then, dialogue is important, and I honestly think that the Council of State contributes to such a dialogue. Among other things, the Council of State has established a dialogue between the Church and the Ministry. Finally, the State-Church case with any amendment to the Constitution is far ahead. The outcome of the case may also be that it will still be a state church. Let's take that option with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e971	Let me first thank the interpellant for addressing a problem that the Government has helped to create a great deal of ambiguity and frustration around. Because there is an obvious simplification of the issue when the Council of State claims that the Information Society's fund is owned by the State, because the Church is a state church. The issue of ownership and OVF has been very controversial for a long time. The fund is both attached to the constitution and has its own law. It puts the fund in a special position. It is important that the Government does not underestimate the impact of putting all of this aside and finding the closest in a petition and as a matter of course that the State owns the fund, and can manage it the closest it will — especially in view of the comments that this house has made earlier on matters of the same nature. The government is in the process of amending the OVF Act in order to make it possible to force through the application of the Santa Claus directive also to OVF’s properties. There is considerable doubt in legal circles as to whether or not the proposal of the Government is contrary to the Constitution. It is therefore a little strange that there is no trace of humility from the Government in this matter. Although the Council of State of the European Parliament earlier today says that this is primarily about politics, the Constitution is about more than politics. The Constitution is also about law. The council revealed that he was in possession of the exam from the 1st section. the Council of States should be aware of that context. The existence of significant legal doubts about such a change in itself should be an argument for a significantly more thorough review of the issue than the government raises. In addition, an amendment to the OVF Act, if it is presumptuously within the framework of the Constitution, will result in a substantial asset move from the OVF, or the state, as the Government says, to selected and often privileged citizens who attach property to the OVF. In other words, this is not something that most people enjoy, but it is a direct gift from the state, or OVF, to a few chosen. Of the country's nearly 300,000 landowners, it is about. 8 700 fasteners benefiting from State discrimination through the Santa Claus Guide. Seven hundred of these get their gift at the expense of OVF. The Council of State has stated, both here in the Chamber and at the Church Meeting, that the OVF will receive full compensation for the losses incurred by the Fund. I would then ask the Council of State to confirm that such compensation to the OVF is to be given a crown for crowns, in order to ensure that the fund's basic capital is not impaired. This means, in practice, that the State has to compensate the fund for the difference between the redemption amount according to the LFS and the market price. It is the only way to fulfill the promise of the Council of State, and it is absolutely essential that the Council of State is clear on this in the Chamber. If the Council of State sees a compensation scheme to be based only on annual appropriations, he stands with his promises at the Church Meeting leaning back. Everyone knows, and can see from the budgets presented, that this government is depriving the Church. They cut in the appropriations for church democracy and maintenance of church buildings, and they refuse to fulfill the proste reform. Such a scheme will in practice not be a compensation scheme, for it has no duration beyond each financial year. A reduction in the fund's basic capital will result in the fund being less able to meet its future obligations under the Information Society Fund law, and this will result in further maturity in church properties. The Progress Party has previously said that the ownership of the Fund must be dealt with together with the question of the future relationship between the State and the Church. We get a big message about that relationship with the spring – it is at least announced. And it's natural that OVF is part of the review of such a message. It is also totally unacceptable that, pending such clarification, the law changes so that a person opens up the collection of the fund's basic capital. It may seem that the Government's constant attack on the Information Society's fund is something arbitrary and does not follow any principle line in addition to finding new ways to drain the Basic Capital Fund. It is important to clarify general frameworks and principles before going to a step leading to major changes. The natural time to do so will be associated with the state-church debate. The Council of State indicated instead of the right of appeal by the Supreme Court for the decision of the Storting whether or not it is within the Basic Law. Then I will challenge the Council of State to say something about whether he can imagine how such a problem will end if it ends in the judiciary, and how it will put the Government, the state as such, this house, the OVF and the Church in a rather special situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e993	In general, it is a good rule for the communication between magnificence and government that government councils take interpellations seriously. I don't think I can remember hearing in this room an answer to an interpellation that has been as unprofessional as the answer the Council of State just gave, and that showed so little willingness to go into at all a real discussion about the problems that the interpellant has raised, and that too many people in this country are literally combustible problems. It is not possible to dismiss a simple finding that the Government assumes that a person acts in accordance with the Constitution. Yes, God better, what else would it matter? But there is actually a need for a discussion on how this government interprets the Basic Law § 106. Not many foundations in this country are constitutional. The Council of State may not be unaware that there are legal considerations which do not only raise doubts as to whether the Santa Claus directive and the proposed amendment of the Law on the Fund of the Information Society comply with the Basic Law § 106, but which goes very far in finding that there is a manifest contradiction between the Basic Law § 106 and the Government's basis in the Santa Claus directive. Professor Eivind Smith, who is one of our foremost legal scholars in the field, says in a observation dated November 12th this year: ‘It cannot be seriously claimed that extensive unilateral advantage to landowners falls within the Fund’s objectives under the basic law of § 106. This vote – he notes – ‘with an opinion by the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice,’ – which the interpellant also quoted, but which I consider to be a reminder of once more – ‘there is, among other things, the fact. is called: Systematic re-disposal of significant parts of the fund's assets, irrespective of the purpose of the fund and without any consideration being given, would be an example of dispositions contrary to the fundamental law.» I must say that I think the Council of State and the government he is a member of have exceptionally good nerves if they attend a trial with this starting point, without losing the night sleep. I'm going to be willing to make a bet with the Council of State at any time – if he feels like such a thing – about the outcome of such a trial. That outcome is going to be of little joy to the Government. Therefore, it will be my firm advice to the Council of State and the Government to follow the mountain-wet rule to turn in time – possibly dig down. It is not possible to support any sensible and credible argument that the purpose of the Government's policy towards the Santa Claus Institute has anything to do with the constitutional purpose of the Information Society's fund. Therefore, using the Information Service's fund as a political instrument to realise the Government's intentions regarding the housing market becomes purely arbitrary. There must be reason to recall that if the land-use property instruction is ever implemented, the effect on the price level of the Norwegian housing market will be zero, because land-use fasteners who receive a gift package from the country will be able to sell the property on the market the next day at market price – of course. This is a political blow in the air from the Government. The tragic thing is that it just happens by draining a foundation fund for values between 1 and 1.25 billion dollars. Then, like the representative Anundsen, I must ask the Council of State to give the Storting a clear indication of what is in the promise that this will be compensated. It shall not be compensated for to the Norwegian Church through annual appropriations, because that answer will be an axe shaft. It shall be compensated for by the Information Service's fund, which the State Council itself claims to be the property of the State and not the property of the Church. There is only one form of real compensation, and that is to provide the fund with the same asset values that you drain from the fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1013	No pay began by saying that the Council of State did not take the interpellation seriously. But after listening to Inge Wohnning's articles and his argument, I wonder a little about the seriousness of that article as well. He started with an opinion on the possible conclusions to be reached by the Supreme Court if there is a Supreme Court ruling on the legality of the instructions. Trying to clarify the ownership of the fund is an old exercise. All the investigations that have looked at the state-church relationship – we have had quite a few since the 1970s – have concluded that we are not taking a position on this. If a person tries to approach the question purely legally, as many obviously want to do, there is probably only one answer, namely that the fund is owned by the state, because the Church cannot be defined as a legal entity. Therefore, the issue of ownership of the fund becomes largely an academic exercise. It has virtually no political significance as long as the State Church continues in its present form. It's only going to be a problem when we're going to separate state and church, and that's something I hope we can at least clarify during this big period. If we ignore the Santa Claus directive, I cannot see – and they must have quite a lot of imagination, those who can – that there are some changes in this government's management of the fund, compared to what has been done in the past. If we look at the accounts of the fund for 2006, almost 100 million were lost. kr the financial fund and it has built up the financial fund. So I can't see that there's any change in the way the fund is managed, compared to what's done before. We had a debate a few years ago on a proposal for inflation protection, which was promoted by the Progress Party, where a legal provision was introduced that the fund should be secured by inflation. It has changed, but it has not meant that the fund has been tapped in any way or that the real value of the fund has been reduced. And the returns of the fund have been largely used for church purposes — for the councils of bishops, the operation of church activity and various church institutions. So I just can't see that there's any basis to say that the situation is different now than under previous governments. I am absolutely sure the ownership of the fund needs to be clarified by a political decision when it comes to the question of separation of state and church. I have expressed for the past – and still believe – that by a distinction between state and church, the fund should largely fall to the Church. I justify that, compared with many other religious communities, the Norwegian Church has not had the opportunity to collect taxes on the earth, at least not to a large extent. By any distinction, the Church will stand without any particular financial capital. There would be a good toxin in such a situation that the fund could be used to lubricate such a distinction between state and church, which I see as politically highly desirable that we are able to achieve during this accumulation period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1026	I believe that the Council of State could well have completed its law study, after having heard his posts in the Chamber today. First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for giving us this as a theme. We need to take a thorough discussion about the Information Society's fund, in the light of all that the Government is now doing. At the same time, I would like us not to have to take this debate now – that it could have been one of the themes of the big state-church debate coming to spring, and not a topic that comes on the basis of an unfounded sentence in a budget. I'll get back to that a little bit. The Fund of the Information Service shall serve church purposes in accordance with the Act on the Fund of the Information Society and the Basic Law § 106, which states: «As much as the income of the spiritual benefied of God is to be used only for the Best of the Spirituality and the Advancement of the Enlightenment. The properties of the Mildest Foundations were to be used only for their sakes." The question of who owns the Information Service's fund is disputed. There is also a reason why changing governments have failed to conclude on this issue. This has also been demonstrated by the Storting’s consideration of the issue. Even during this great age, there has been a consensus that this is a topic that will be answered in the discussions of the relationship between state and church. When, a year and a half ago, the Stortinget dealt with a report on the economy of the Norwegian Church, an overall committee stated: ‘The Committee refers to the conclusion reached by the Ministry of Justice in relation to the ownership of the Information Society Fund. The Committee agrees with the Committee that, regardless of how the ownership of the fund is assessed, this will be a political issue on which the Storting is legally free to decide in the context of the examination of the selection.’.» This comment is interesting in many ways. The Councils of State have their own defences, including: in the Questionnaire and today, referred to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice and their conclusion that the Fund is owned by the State. In the note that I quoted, a total increase refers to the same conclusion, but they nevertheless agree that this issue will be legally free to be considered in the context of the treatment of the selection. It is not related to the annual budgetary documents or to a small sentence in the budget proposal – no, it is ‘related to the examination of the selection’. There's nothing that's changed since Stortinget said this last March. It's the same government, the same state council, and the same great majority. The only change is that I've come into the committee, but I don't think it should distort the balance of this point. That's why it gets so weird when the government presents St.prp. No One and a half years later and suddenly the wording has changed. There is a small sentence from nothing that suggests that the state is the owner of the fund. This is new, and there's no reason given. I have to say that I don't understand why the government has such a hurry. Based on the way it is done, it almost seems as if you hoped no one would notice it. There is reason to ask whether the Council of State intends to make further decisions on the State-Church issue in this way in the future. The government should understand that this is not the way to deal with a politically motivated case. One may have begun to realize that one is on thin ice in relation to the Constitution, when one wants to impose on the Information Society's fund a general obligation to redeem land or extend the fixation conditions according to rules that are significantly more favourable than the Law on Santa Claus, as we have heard from more people today. When the Council of State today says that this is a political issue of disagreement between the opposition and the Government, I would remind the Council of State that this is also a disagreement between the Church and the Government. This is not a political disagreement here. In reality, hundreds of millions of dollars of community funds will be distributed – from our people’s church – to individuals. This means that the fund's economy is weakened, and there is less money to care for, among other things. nurseries and minor funds for child labour and youth work. I think some clerical families ask themselves: Why are the families of Santa Claus more important than what kind of house we can have, and what position are the clergy homes in? I'll ask the government to calm down, think again. There will be plenty of opportunity to determine the future fate of the Fund in a proper and serious way if, instead of taking hasty conclusions and advance treatment of the State-Church case, one sticks to what the government parties said just a year and a half ago, that this is ‘a political issue on which the Storting is legally free to address when dealing with the situation of the sample’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1059	Here, there have been testimonies about both studies and not studies. For my part, I am raised in what is called Trondheim's power policy. There it sounded like this in my growth: We have the power, the door, go and see you! This was the case with representatives from the Workers' Party in Trondheim City Council, and the Council of State keeps these traditions alive in the way he acts here in the Chamber. Let me rewrite it, based on the same tone that I learned to crack on for approx. 40 years ago, when it comes to the state church, we're doing what we want, and we're adapting the rhetoric and the logic as it fits. Because that's how it gets in practice. Had it been a line in this, for example. In my opinion, in relation to the Council of State many moments of reflection in meeting with the Church meeting, where one says that one is willing to enter into a dialogue and a process to mature a possible distinction between Church and State – if that is what one believes – it would have some consequences in terms of church matters coming here later, in the New Year, and which I am not going to go into now. But it should have had a consequence in the area we're now in. To run some public information: the law department sometimes speaks ex cathedra, as it is called. Then it writes its statements on its own letter paper, and then it is not always signed by a government council. For my part, I have not signed, as far as I know, a document to which the Council of State Giske referred. But it is the case that the Bondevik II government concluded that the question is actually taken up when you get to the state-church debate later. Now, I guess the government council thinks that's what he stands for. But then we get to practice, and there it is that at the arrangements made during this big time in the Information Society's fund, which has its anchor in the Basic Law, as others have pointed out, you weaken the fund. Then you choose to give an instruction that defines the fund specifically in relation to landowners. That's when it's getting interesting purely legally, for anyone who's been close to the Santa Claus Act knows that it's very demanding jus. One also knows that parts of the law have just been treated in the Supreme Court. One knows even that parts of the juxtaposition that were treated in the Supreme Court led to the Supreme Court dealing with things that had been dealt with in the Grand Duchy, and said that this did not last. Then you have to ask yourself a question, when you have a fund that is enshrined in the Constitution, and in this fund that is anchored in the Constitution, you make arrangements for a plot of land that the law department, as the Council of State quotes, doesn't seem to be right. It should then be covered by a State Council opinion, which reads something like this: we should compensate for this. If you were to stick to a constitutional logic first, I wonder what the Roman Numeral Decision would look like to compensate for something you intervene in the Constitution because a government council declares it. I don't have the imagination on the move to quite manage to construct it, because it's clear that it must have a strength outside of any experience that I have in this room, if you're going to do it. What's happening now is that you provide a fund. And the Council of State has a rather clever argument. He says that this fund really doesn't matter, because it's just, as he said at the Church Meeting, a sausage in a large sausage stall, and the rest of the sausage shed is served by the state. That's when the previous axis was. Advocate General Hans-Petter, for years, said that this sausage stall is constitutional. And not all sausages in the homeland are constitutional. So the Council of State's image of the Information Society's fund is a sausage, and it's constitutional. I personally think that once we are in the special situation that a fund is constitutional, one should step very carefully around it. You should be very careful at any stage of it and at least take care of it – in the common sense, if you are to build trust in people around you, for example. making a breadth around the relationship between state and church — not just providing for it. Then there's a completely incomprehensible logic why, through a separate instruction, you think you can do a cut-through to a fund that's enshrined in the Constitution, when you know that other aspects of Santa Claus are controversial enough as they are, and get their own treatment in the Supreme Court. I think there was some of this that got the representative's salary to react as strongly as he did. For my part, I only react in that way to say that the Left is part of the opposition as 1) goes against making the arrangements made in the fund so far; 2) is against the disposition made with the Santa Claus directive; and 3) believes, just like the representative of Rikvam, that at the time you arrive at a distinction between church and state, this is the Church's concession – next to what the Council of State has spoken about, and as the Left fully supports, that in a country like Norway we should have a raw and proper funding of religious communities. The councils should be commended for having taken it up, and we fully support that view. But I think that if there's any logic in this case, it has to be that the Norwegian Workers' Party sometimes has the line that they do whatever they want, only they have enough power. That's why some of us choose to say from the way I do from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1074	I think one should realize that the new Santa Claus directive that is going to come into force, and the report that is in the state budget, is being perceived as quite dramatic outside, at least in the Church. What we're talking about is this is thousands of beneficiaries, while there's one loser, with a few allies around it. Clearly, then, freeing the beneficiaries at the expense of the loser is a rather special way of running politics. I took note of the representative Opheim, who said that it might seem as if conclusions were beginning to be drawn in the church-state debate. That's not how I see it. But you actually start to have a good part of the values that are going to be part of this debate. I see that as something completely different. Governments also point out that the Church’s economy is much more than just the OVF. There's no doubt about it. The values in the OVF cannot drive the Church in the future. But why then go in and weaken the basis for what should actually be the foundation of the Church, in front of the big debate that is coming? The councils have shown that he is not able to give priority to operational funds for the Church today either. The Council of State also shows concern for those who experience an increase in the fixation fee. But then, as others have pointed out, those who then get this favor can just turn around and sell with a pretty big gain. The representative Eriksen was also concerned about why it is so much more important to distribute such a gain to someone who has been so «lucky» that they are on a party contract, rather than that the Church should be able to take the responsibility it has for maintaining the priesthood and the well-being of the community. I think the interpellant has pointed out something that is quite important here, some quite dramatic figures for the Church – an impairment of NOK 1-1.25 billion and annual revenue losses of SEK 35-45 million. kr. There aren't small sums in the context we're talking about here. In view of that, the Council of State should take the debate around Section 106 of the Constitution much more seriously than I realized he did here. He should have taken up the representative's comment on the payroll before he sat down to write his statement, also in the light of the debate that has arisen after the Santa Claus settlement here in Stortinget. Here it's very hard to figure out. The problem is quite big, and I find it very special that, through just a remark in the state budget, you put quite strong leadership in how the OVF should actually be adapted in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1089	There is every reason to welcome an interpellation on this topic. There are many who over time, not least on a church level, have been concerned about the development of the Information Society's fund. A number of opinions and signals from individual parties and politicians on the red-green side suggested that the possibility of using the fund's funds for purposes for which it had not previously been opened was considered. In particular, funds were sought for the restoration of old church buildings. Then the government sent out a message to amend the fund law. This aroused strong reactions in the church organs. So it also happened that the government promoted a kilo. the resolution in which the Information Society's fund was instructed in the sale of land. The instruction is referred to several times here, and it implies that landowners are given the right to redeem the properties at a more reasonable price, a price that in many places will be below the real market value. This means that in contrast to many other landowners in the country, people who have been so lucky that they have attached the land to the OVF, a significant discount is granted by the Government – some have talked about a lottery win. This is, of course, a gain that can then be realised by a subsequent sale of the property. In this way, the Government takes values that the Norwegian Church has over time considered to be its heritage from earlier times, and with a pen stroke this is now to be distributed to more or less random individuals. The consequence of this is that the values of the fund will be reduced, which in turn means that there will be less return for church purposes and activities to which it has previously been used. This is going to be completely meaningless! So the government's people and the government council say the Church shouldn't lose money on this. Then I would like to ask whether it is still not quite strange and wrong that the government in a situation where important negotiations are being held on the Church's relationship with the state, then prejudges the process of distributing out of the historical property values the Church has had with it from earlier times. This is then to start in counter tray – at best to mess up the whole thing before the process is started. I said that the OVF fund is to consider the Church's heritage. If we use that picture, it is not unnatural to imagine a family relationship where the father and a resident son held under the same roof, and where a greater wealth was placed early in the life of the son on book or in securities that would be the capital the son could use to establish himself on his own when the time of the breakup from the father's house one day would come. The son then grew up and approached the age of authority. So you might ask, how would you react if at a time when the son was reached – let's say – an age of 17 and 1/2 years, he hurried to take out some of the capital and give some of it to strangers or people far out in the family that he somehow thought ought to be compensated, and without this being agreed with the son? How would the son react? And what would it have to say for the future relationship between these two? Back to the OVF: There is a thorough sample study on the relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church from the so-called Gjønnes Committee. This is now in the Government for treatment, and the Council of State has announced a case to the Stortinget about this. The Committee also discusses the ownership of the Information Society's fund. The selection procedure shows that there is considerable disagreement as to whether it is the Church or the State that owns the fund. A broad majority of the sample concludes that, in the event of a change in the relationship between church and state, it would be natural for the fund to be returned to the Church. Then it is a little premature for the Council of State to conduct a political rhetoric based on an opinion from the Department of Justice. The only right thing would be to wait to touch the fund capital of the Donation Committee will be dealt with in Stortinget. This would be in line with what a joint church, education and research committee has said. It would bring peace and a good negotiating climate in front of the forthcoming treatment of the church-state relationship. It would not least also help to provide a good economic basis for a future people's church with a slightly looser bond with the state. But the last one might be something you're not very interested in. It's about keeping the son at home and not letting him stand on his own legs, even if the time is overripe.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1106	First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate. Then again, I will challenge the Council of State. The Council of State assumes that what the Government is doing is within the framework of the Constitution. I get to say as the representative of the payroll, yes, something else would just be missing! However, the question here is whether the Council of State can justify the way this with new Santa Claus guidelines seems to fall within the framework of the Constitution. Governments have not tried in one word to justify how the new Santa Claus directive is in line with the Basic Law § 106. I can't interpret it any other way than that it's because the Council of State doesn't really think it's within the framework of the Constitution. In addition, the Council of State states that even if everyone else adjusts the land-fixing charges to the maximum of what they can, the State may choose to have a different practice. However, the State cannot choose to have a practice that goes beyond the Constitution. That's what's the question here: Is it so that what's now in the Santa Claus directive is compatible with the Basic Law § 106, or isn't it? I also repeat what Eivind Smith has said: ‘It cannot be seriously claimed that extensive unilateral advantage to landowners falls within the Fund’s objectives under the Constitution § 106.’ The government would like to think that having low fasting fees and low redemption fees is a goal you want to achieve. But it can't be that you break the Constitution to achieve it, simply because it's not the purpose of the Information Society's fund to ensure that random individuals are favored with large sums. So if you want to divide the sum that the Information Society's fund is going to lose, NOK 1 to SEK 1.25 billion, in the number of parties available, you're going to give a gift of NOK 130,000 to every individual. I don't understand when it became a priority task for the red-green government to transfer large wealth values from the community to private individuals. I will give the Council of State a last opportunity to make an attempt to explain how it might be that the Government believes that the new Santa Claus directive is within the framework of the Basic Law § 106, and not outside. I hope that the Council of State will use the last chance he now has in the debate to try to give a reason for his answer. I don't accept as justification – I don't think the Church's people do that either, I don't think the Information Society's fund does, and I don't think the general opinion does that either – an answer where the Council of State is simply trying to dismiss the problem by saying that he assumes that what the Government is doing is within the framework of the Constitution. The Council of States must then also be able to justify why he believes it is within the framework of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1122	I'm glad that at least one thing seems to be settled through this interpellation, and that's the property. The interpolation reads in the first sentence: ‘The ownership rights of the Information Service Fund are unclear.’ [[OVF]] But the interpellant did not mention this in one word in his summary, and her party colleague Inge Wohnning was not even close to answering the question. It would have been broken if there had been an exam assignment to the law, because property relationships were not mentioned at all. I pointed out what the previous government said. Former Minister of Justice Dørum said that sometimes it was simply a matter of fact. But it is clear that when a government presents a big message and quotes the law department, this government has to make it clear if it has a different opinion. So the Bondevik government didn't. The ownership of OVF is settled. It's the state that owns it. But when the committee comments that this is a political issue, it is a matter of distinction between state and church. The reason why this was not a major theme at the Church Meeting was that at the Church Meeting it was accepted that this is the case. The property relationship is now clear, but if it becomes a distinction, it is a political question. I understand that the opposition is disappointed that this did not create more noise, but there were other things to use in the debate than in a political game about something that is actually quite clear. With a state church, it's the same property, with a division, it becomes a political question. It is not more difficult, nor is it more difficult to make that statement in the budget proposal. I just have to say that when some of the opposition here get high and dark about the Church's economy, I have to remember the situation in 2003, when a crisis package had to be created to prevent churches from being closed, so that they could be kept warm in winter, because the local economy was so dramatically poor. Now the community economy is strongly strengthened, and it also improves the Church's economy. So for the Santa Claus thing, if there's an interpellation about the Santa Claus thing, then it's the Minister of Renewal that has designed that instruction. People in the staging room should know that then you have to put the interpellation about it. This interpellation is about the management of the Information Society's fund, and that's what I'm answering. But I just have to, when the opposition says that if you get reasonable relationships when you have to attach empty and pay, if you drop lawsuits, and if you have proper administration, then these people can just sell the property, say that people live there, that's their lives, and that's their economy. When you are concerned about inheritance fees and taxes on cabins, but almost deny it to give 8 000 people reasonable and decent conditions at Santa Claus that there is a gift package, there is winning in Lotto, they can sell their house and move, then you have understood very little about what this is about. And that deeply disappoints me.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1142	That being the case, it is no. 3 finished handles.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1156	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1165	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee. It's nice to agree on this kind of thing. It shows willingness for constructive cooperation, and it also shows that we think very much in terms of what is important for the school. So in this case, it's school management. We are tabling a unanimous proposal for a decision. It is true that a minority have some own proposals, but I would ask them to turn them into transmission proposals, so that they can be included in the overall assessment of the proposal. We'll see what they do. We – a comprehensive committee – will initially stress that the school’s ability to meet the expectations of a good school depends primarily on the quality of teaching and the development of each school and each classroom. The responsibility lies with local school leaders, school owners and individual teachers. This shall be done on a seagoing basis in cooperation with the trainees and the trainees. Several legislative changes strengthen the school with a view to sound professional, educational and administrative management. Training shall be conducted by a principal and the principal shall have the necessary managerial and pedagogical skills. In the examination of this matter, the Committee stresses that it is the responsibility of the school owner to comply with the law's requirement of good management at each school. Within the national framework, a significant responsibility has been delegated to the school locally for assessing national objectives. The reform of the school year makes a major demand for school management. The task of the principal in charge of educational development at school is a complex and very demanding task. The Director shall be responsible for all aspects of the leadership role, both the strategic, the professional, the innovative and the administrative. In addition, he must have a strong grip on the role of the employer. Schoolleaders are key people in the process of achieving the Knowledgelift goal of higher quality and better performance in Norwegian school. Since 2005, it has been a priority area to have a Strategy for the Development of Competences. The reports show that a significant number of school leaders have done so. The strategy period ends in 2008. It will then be necessary to make a comprehensive assessment of the impact of the services implemented. It will also be useful to find out how the country should organise the provision of further education for school leaders in the future. The Ministry has provided support for the development of school leadership training. There is now a need to review existing study services and look at the need for any new services, in order to provide educational services to school owners and school leaders in line with the challenges facing the school. School management is not limited to the principal role. The administrative resource is calculated according to the size of the school and varies as much as is known. Small schools can have 50 pst. management resource, and the major schools may have up to 400 pst. management resource, i.e. three people plus principal in full capacity. The point of this matter is that we want to look at strengthening the management function of primary education and the need for a more systematic development of the skills of school managers. In the notified quality quality report of initial training, action to improve school management will be a key issue. It is also clear from the unanimous proposal for decisions available. Good school management is very important for several reasons. It helps to increase pupils' learning outcomes, it seems motivating and developing on teachers, and it has a positive impact on general school development. It should also be mentioned that St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007 from our previous confirmation that school leaders are not sufficiently involved in how training should be conducted and improved. Here, there are still unresolved challenges in school. But to all intents and purposes, there are good examples of good school management. Only in this case presentation here are there many, many examples. But there are major local differences, and the main point is that there is no superior system that combines the content of education. It must be a national responsibility to ensure that conditions are made possible for municipalities and county municipalities to be good and active school owners. All municipalities should have a wide range of instruments to take from when they are responsible for providing good training to all students.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1195	There is broad consensus in the Committee that school management is important for the quality of education and for the development work that is taking place there. As far as good management is concerned, the school is not alone in asking for it. All organisations rely on managers to work well, so that professional objectives and results are achieved. But if this fails in school, it has a major impact on the whole development of society. That's why it's important to focus just on school management, and I want to give credit to the Right for addressing the matter. Being a headmaster in today's school is a very demanding task. Many school owners also have problems recruiting for free principal positions. Many people find it difficult to fill. Often, the principal is also the head of a municipality and part of the Council chairperson’s group responsible for ensuring the integrity of the budgets and the operation of the entire organisation. However, the expectations of those for whom they are the leaders on a daily basis are that the Vice-Chancellor must meet their demands for good economic and organisational framework conditions. Many school leaders seem to be getting between bark and knowledge, and doing professional and organisational development is difficult to take care of at the same time as having to discharge administrative and financial responsibilities. But I know a lot of school leaders who do it, and the committee has also visited two schools here in Oslo, where exactly good management is one of the characteristics of the school. What characterises a good schoolleader can be several things, but good professional understanding and the ability to work systematically with different issues are important characteristics, as well as the ability to create security through clear structure and communication within the organisation. Then you can discuss whether formal leadership skills are necessary. I would argue that it is no disadvantage to have leadership training when you are going to be a leader. Knowing the different processes that are taking place in all organisations provides a security of your own. But the leader must initially be fit for the task, and not least motivated. There, school owners are at the heart of developing good leadership topics and motivating them to both seek formal skills and gain leadership experience. I'm not sure if there's a particular type of formal leadership qualification that you should ask for from school leaders. Often, being a student with others with a different type of professional background may be so important for the development of leadership skills. The school has a lot to go on before we can say that we have learning organisations. Others have come a lot further and thus have a lot to add to the school. Studying together interdisciplinaryly is also essential in order to acquire change skills, which are more sought after than ever at school. The Committee also considers that there is a need for a review of existing study offers and an assessment of the need for any new offers. I believe that it is important in that context to do this precisely ‘in close dialogue with stakeholders and stakeholders’, as an overall committee expresses itself in the matter. However, with the risk of repeating myself, I must point to the basic training of teachers also in terms of management. I am convinced that students must learn the importance of being part of an active research and development work during the study in order for this to be a natural part of their working day after completion of education. I just as much believe that school management should have its place in basic education. It may be linked to the school practice that students have in the course of their education – this in order to create a greater understanding and acceptance of management than we experience today. The school, like other organisations such as hospitals, have highly trained staff who need to work independently. There is no long tradition of leadership as we see the need for leadership today. Therefore, focus on the management and development of learning organisations is essential also in basic education. The Government has notified the submission of a separate quality notification in initial training and a prioritisation of State instruments in that context. I believe that the Council of State will focus on this issue, and look forward to a broader debate on how school management is part of a larger whole in order to ensure quality in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1212	I would first like to take the opportunity to wish Solhjell State Council a welcome to the Stortinget when dealing with this matter. The first time he had performed here, it was interpellation. Then I was the President-in-Office, so I didn't have the opportunity to welcome the new Council of State. I think that's in its place. At least on our behalf, I want to look forward to good cooperation with the Council of State in very important matters, such as: in this case. It's a quality challenge in Norwegian school. There is a cross-political focus on the quality challenges we face in Norwegian school, and the reasons for that quality challenge are probably very complex. But it is not entirely unthinkable that management plays an important role, and it concerns both the management of schools and the management of classes. The Progress Party has repeatedly put forward proposals for continuing training of teachers in order to improve the competence of teachers in classroom management. It is also an important perspective to have with it, which perhaps the Council of State will also bring into the matter that will come next, where one looks at the overall leadership perspective. So I want to say that this is a happy thing in many ways, because what we've experienced in the committee has been a change of attitude that has been very positive. There has been a wide range of interaction and a desire to find a common solution to the challenges presented in the proposal for a representative. It may be that the new Council of State has a finger in this regard. And not least, I would like to highlight the rapporteur's very good efforts to bring together the Committee on what has been achieved, and I believe that an overall committee can be both satisfied with and proud of. In particular, I would like to thank the government parties and the minister of knowledge. I also hope that there is a situation that we will see more of in the future, and that there is a sustained change of attitude that enables us to find good, practical and constructive policy solutions in the Committee. We were asked to turn the proposals of the Progress Party, which are the only minority proposals in the vote, into transmission proposals, so that they will then be considered in the context of the other proposals in the proposal for a representative. Of course, we think the request is good, and we will follow that request in the name of good will. We will only ask the Council of State to confirm that the two minority proposals will be included in the evaluation of the proposal for a decision requested by the draft representative in the vote. In concrete terms, we will re-examine our proposals for transmission proposals, provided that the Council of State confirms that these will be included in the overall assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1223	The representative Anders Anundsen has drawn up the proposals of the Progress Party, which were then turned into proposals for transmission. They will be managed according to the regulations in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1226	After the Committee has now perhaps recovered the rest pulse after the previous debate, we can start a little calmer by first, from my point of view at least, wishing the Council of State welcome to the Stortinget. I haven't had a chance to do that before. I look forward – on behalf of both the Committee and myself – to good cooperation with the Council of State. The second is that I want to thank the rapporteur for a very good job. I think it is gratifying that we can get together on proposals we agree on, and that I think everyone has an interest in us being able to see an improvement in relation to. Because there is little doubt that the theme of school management is important in school. This was also confirmed when the Committee was visiting Kastelet School and Ullern Secondary School — two schools that have taken on school management in different ways in a very good way. Ullern high school was, as many people are sure to know, both the threat of closure and, to put it bluntly, the disembarkation. There were very few students who wanted to go there, and the school had a bad environment. Thanks to an offensive and very competent principal, the school has now turned its development around, and is one of Oslo's most popular high school. We also know that the school management at Kastelet school has managed to get very good results for their students, and they have a very conscious relationship with their management of the school. I am not going to go into any in-depth discussion of the proposals that have been made by the Right. We will have plenty of opportunity to come back to that in connection with this becoming part of the announced big business message. But I would nevertheless like to add some comments to the reason and the background for the Right-wing promotion of this very proposal. A few years ago, I was on a trip to Kristiansand and visited, among other things. Educational center in Kristiansand. There I heard some very alarming and interesting stories about school management in practice. I take all sorts of reservations that it's not like that everywhere, but I think there were stories that aroused an interest in school management, at least with me. Those who worked at the Pedagogical Center told me that in very many cases, the principal looks at himself as being first among equals and the principal of the teachers. The principal doesn't think of himself as a seaman. That's what I think was an interesting recording, and I think it's that many places. There's a lot of people who work hard to become principal. There are large and complex management tasks, and there is nothing else to wait for but that task also requires both management competence and management experience. It is also true that in both reports and other cases, many have commented on how school management can have a positive impact on school outcomes. In the evaluation of what was called ‘Early start testing of the second foreign language’, a principal said the following: ‘The Director’s attitude to bet in languages is the key. You can have very good language teachers who run within their four walls. It depends on management to do something out of this competence. It is completely independent of whether the principal is a realist or a language teacher.» I also think it sums up in a very good way what it is possible to do if you have offensive, competent, good school leaders who have ambitions on behalf of their students. We also know that it is important for the principals and teachers to have a good interaction on how to run the school, what are the goals of the school, and what direction the school is going in. I'm convinced that we can see very good and positive results in school if the focus on school management gets better. The previous government started a considerable effort to improve school management, both through the establishment of master programmes in school management and through the provision of funds, in particular in the early years of empowerment in the context of the Knowledge promise, to enhance the competence of school managers. However, this is the case — and it shows the 2005 schoolleader survey — that almost 40 pst. the principals do not have any formal management training, and only 18.5 pst. has one year of education or more. At the same time, if we look at the back porch, which is that the management task as a principal becomes more difficult and more complicated, it tells me at least that the importance of a good and solid school management does not diminish in the years to come. Rather, on the contrary, I think it is becoming more important. It's completely different challenges for a school and for a schoolleader today than it was just 10, 15 or 20 years ago. You have to take that over. I therefore look forward with excitement to the coming big message and hope and believe that our proposals there will receive a wide publicity and thorough treatment, as provided by a unanimous committee in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1246	It is very nice on behalf of SV to be allowed to welcome a new government council to Stortinget. And what could be a better case to debut in than a matter where the committee agrees with the heart – at least in decision? Norwegian school has a lot of good sides. Nevertheless, we know that we include: has a major challenge when it comes to social cushioning of differences in learning outcomes among students. The evaluation of Reform 97 told us that there is too little systemicity and coherence in the learning work in Norwegian school. I think that's a context. Research has told us that schools that were closed down in relation to social aberrations of learning differences, where a socio-economic background variable could have expected lower grades than in other schools, among others. is the hallmark of their strong and professionally clear educational guidance. They may have different practices, but are the hallmarks of them. School leadership is central to educational development, and it is crucial that we manage to close better than we do today in Norwegian school. Then we treat St.meld. No 16 for 2006-2007, Stortinget was in agreement with the Ministry to monitor how school rentals are available at different schools today, and to assess whether there is a good enough record in the legislation today. We'll be able to come back to that later. Another characteristic of schools that are closed down in learning is that they are able to realise the principle and objectives of custom training. The evaluation of the reform mentioned earlier 97 told us that there is a principle that has strong support in Norwegian school today, but that there is a long way between ideal and practice. There is a long way between the ideal of custom training and what actually happens in school, and what teachers actually say they do. We have little school research and few classroom observations, but to the extent that we have knowledge, that's what the research tells us. The whole point of custom training is that students should meet a school based on them — in their interests, in their abilities, in what they actually can and what their potential is. We're not going to sit here on the Stortinget and write out a phase on what's a good learning situation, and how a driving good learning. It's a responsibility at school. It's a huge responsibility for the teachers as a professional. Then, of course, it could be tempting to talk about the evaluation of general teacher training. It also gives Stortinget the opportunity to come back later, so I'll leave it there and say that the context here is that the practice at school is related to the rental. The representative Anundsen was in that the teachers are leaders in the learning situation. There's one aspect of leadership. The second aspect is, of course, the way the school is rented, and the educational activity in the school. School guidance is simply about how to organise the enterprise so that good learning can be done. There'll always be different answers to that. The visits made by the Committee during the examination of the proposal from the Right – which I am to say is a good initiative from the Right – showed us that there are different rental models in Norwegian school. It all coincides with my own experience from other school visits. There's a bunch of different ways to organize the learning work at schools, and it's probably always like that. What I find interesting is that the classic difference in the philosophy of leadership between ‘top-down’ and ‘bottom-up’ also makes itself felt in school. That's why I think a part of what's important about this case is that you get a discussion and a debate about what leadership is about, and what's a good, effective and not least professionally strong on the basis of leadership. We are very pleased that we get the chance to come back to this issue and some other issues later. We look forward to discussing this in relation to questions that this is related to. We look forward to the debates that are coming, because this is much more than the framework for leadership. This is simply about how learning is done in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1265	For the President, it seems that the Church, Education and Research Committee has been inspired by the new Spokesman in Oslo to talk nicely about each other and be kind to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1268	In order not to break the tradition, I just want to say that I have previously welcomed the Council of State in this Chamber and said that I look forward to good cooperation. And I'd like to repeat that. There is little doubt that a good school is also about good school management. That is why the focus of this proposal for a representative has been on an important matter for the proposers. It has also made it possible to bring together a proposal asking the Government to carry out a broad review of the status in this area and to assess the need for new measures and strategies for better school management. The Christian People's Party could support most of the proposals in the document, but is pleased that we can get a comprehensive review where these too are evaluated and discussed in more detail. The professional and pedagogical competence of teachers is central to the further development of the quality of schools. If teachers are to be competent organisers, guides and inspirers for children and young people, it is necessary that they have insight, understanding and interest in the subjects in which they teach. They also need to know something about learning strategies and methods in relation to how children, young people and adults acquire knowledge and skills. The Christian People's Party believes this is also important in relation to a school manager. We believe a school principal is something far more than an economist or administrator. The most important thing for a school is to train. Then it is also natural that a principal has knowledge of how this is done, and therefore a principal should have a pedagogical understanding. Professor Søllvi Lillejord of the University of Bergen said at a school leadership conference attended by the Council of State, that a school manager must have knowledge of what it means to lead learning processes and learn to work empirically with his own practice. So educational understanding is important. This does not mean that we believe it should be an absolute requirement to have education in it. Formal competence is important and necessary in school management, but at the same time such formal competence must not preclude the recruitment of persons with real skills. Such competence may be acquired in several ways. At a school committee visit, the teachers’ skills gap was not a challenge that had to be solved by the individual teacher, but the principal was incredibly conscious of his overall responsibility and made sure that each employee had the skills he needed to complete the school’s strategy and objectives. There is no doubt that Vice-Chancellors with leadership skills can be a positive driver for developing and improving the school. Clear and good management, with objectives that are clear and defined, anchored to employees, students and parents, is essential for a school in development. It can almost be compared to a ship. To get the ship to move forward in the sea, you have to have a captain who sticks out the course. The team each has its own piece of shooter's operation that is essential for the propulsion of the shot, but if the course is not set, it will intersect quite quickly if the person in charge of the fox and responsible for the big sail has different courses. Then the shot will stand still, or at worst the coalsile. A captain, in addition to directing, must know how to sail in order to exploit the potential of a shot. With this shooting and southern vision, I would say that in the Christian People's Party we want schools that are progressing and therefore are happy that there is a matter of this and that there is agreement that this is an important prerequisite for a good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1287	The President is tempted to say that we have had the motor in the boats on the moor coast!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1291	For the sake of order, I would like to say that I have had a courtesy round with the Council of State in the past – it was in a Question Time – but I would like to join the greeting. The president wondered if the tone was mild. But it's simply because when people don't argue about things they don't have to argue about, the tone gets okay. In this case, it is due to two things. This is because a case rapporteur has done a good job – I have every reason to say it – and that we have got a government council that doesn't fight about every comma, and then it gets a little relaxed. So in politics, there are some arenas to be able to agree and some arenas to have conflict. In a normal life, it becomes like this. For my part, it is that after having had some rounds with the Council of State guesses, which I have had for a few years, it is a good thing to have a little quiet moments afterwards. These were little reflections at the beginning of a debate. In the case of school management, the Left is pleased that we have got this unanimous committee position. We are also pleased that the Council of State has met the committee in the way that happens parliamentaryally. We would be able to vote in favour of all the proposals, except for the first point. We are not ready now to say that we are going to have an extra education for principals who have a educational background. But we want it as a principle and then find the practical solutions to get it to – Norway is a complex country. Now, in return, we get a broad case for Stortinget, and that's an excellent way to strengthen the school. For the Left, it has been for a long time that we wanted to prioritise the school crowns of competence both for teachers and for school leaders, and when we make a mark on this matter, as I would stress from the pulpit, it is because we do not regard management as any of our own subjects alone. We see it as something you get in addition to the skills you have. We assume that a principal at a school starts with a pedagogical education, is a person who knows the school as an organization, is happy in the school's field and who gets a personal supplement, a formalized supplementary education. In this way, a person who is happy at school, in school as the workplace for both the subjects and for the pedagogical situation, in addition to becoming a good leader, not only in relation to students but also in relation to colleagues. It's true, as many people have said before, that the committee has been visiting schools where we've seen good examples of what this has meant. Even I know a lot of examples from the Oslo schools where betting on wise leaders has meant a lot to many schools. I am convinced that is transferable to other situations as well. There is no doubt that this effort to build up skills not only with teachers but also with school leaders means something for us to get a good quality in public school. Therefore, it should also be so in the coming years that we do. If I'm going to need to make a mark, it's that the most important crowns we can use in public school now, we need to use to enhance the skills of both teachers and students. If we don't get it done, I'm worried – not that we get the kind of freshs that the government has tried to stop and regulate by law, but that we get the schools that go beyond this, that is, where you pay a lot of money to get an education. There's only one answer to that, and it's that the public school is so competitive through its quality, through its teachers, through its leadership, that it stands there as the powerful community arena it's supposed to be in society, and it's made up of both providing knowledge and disseminating knowledge in such a way that people feel that they can take things out here in the world. In the wise direction, it is to understand that people are different. There are people who learn the theory easily, and there are people who don't learn it easily. Some people learn practical things easily, others don't. There are different paths to the different subjects that are in school, and a wise leader understands that. A wise leader also does what some of the other representatives in the committee have been involved in, and we've seen at Ullern high school, which I've visited at different stages. I visited the school at the stage when there were some students at school who might have used this as a kind of post-residence for criminal activity – unfortunately it was like this – to come to a place later, before the committee was there, where you go into a classroom, and then people get up without seeing who's coming in. Then they sit back and work on. It's an intense activity in the air. The trade that I happen to stumble into, was about digital training, and it was an intense activity. You could simply feel the enthusiasm in the room. You could see how this species behaves. I think it's this common exposure that has made the committee find a common platform. It is also possible that we have been inspired by the rapporteur, Mr Oslo – I will not ignore that. I will not ignore other reasons either. But I think in this case it's because a committee that has the same thing that we're happy at school, happy at what's happening there, found a common tone. Then we sometimes get to the main hall with excited cheers to express that it has become such a day: a little message from the capital of a representative from More.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1310	As a former schoolleader, I love those words there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1313	Let me first -- I think it's the fourth time -- thank you for being welcome to the big room and for the nice tone that's here. May it continue! My childhood principal was a strict man, strict because I think – when I think about it – I only have images in my head of him where he looks strict, that is. all three I had up through the sculetide, and man because all three were men. I think I knew before that there could be a female prime minister in Norway than there could be a female principal! He was a strict man, but he was a man I respected and looked up to, and who was an authority to me, and as I think other elephants and I looked at as a professional and personal authority in the school. What I am now telling you, I also said at a conference I attended recently. What I didn't know then was that my childhood principal actually sat in the hall and listened. He took it very nicely. It turned out that he had not changed so much, but he was actually a smiling man! I think that the principal role and the leadership authority that many principals have been too many of us in school every day, we're going to take with us into the future, while changing and modernizing and professionalizing the leadership role in the school. In this context, the proposals from the representatives of the Right are very positive when we are going to review the tools we have today, in full, to ensure good quality in our school. There are three areas in particular where the government will go into the work of strengthening the schooling. We want to research more about the relationship between schooling and the benefits of teaching and what characterises good schooling. We shall consider strengthening the competence requirements to be added to or work as a trainee, and we shall assess national leadership for the content of the training for trainees. In addition, we will review the other suggestions in the configuration. The OECD has seen the project Improving School Leadership, in which we also participated. This theme will be assigned to schooling. We delivered our Country Background Report in January 2007. In most of the areas included in the report, it appears that Norway has missing or incomplete national statistics. In April 2008, the OECD will make recommendations to Norway, and I will evaluate them carefully. The knowledge of management and leadership in the Norwegian school is unfortunately limited. There is a lot of research in this area, but there needs to be more. I am therefore busy stimulating national research into schooling and school development. Until 2003, the principal was required to have teacher training for the school team for which he was to be a principal and to have at least three years’ experience as a teacher. This vision was removed in 2003. The training law today has no formal requirement to be appointed as a schoolleader beyond the requirement to have pedagogical competence and necessary leadership characteristics. Nevertheless, we have a range of educational provision on schooling at universities and public and private colleges. The 2005 Student Leadership Survey at the University of Oslo shows that many Vice-Chancellors are not concerned with formal education but are concerned with providing support and development in areas useful for the pursuit of the profession. However, I would like to assess whether it is necessary to impose more formal qualifications on schoolleaders. It may also be relevant to assign national leadership to the core content of the training. There are many further training provision today, and it may be interesting to look further. in Sweden, which has progressed in that direction. In this context, I would like to pay particular attention to the educational and professional leadership of the contents of the school, that we should have leaders who can guide their teachers, who have knowledge of educational and professional questions in a good way, and who can learn from experience and work with strategy and further development of the school in order to achieve the best possible learning outcomes and quality in the school. The government's assessments of school guidance and measures to strengthen school guidance will be a central part of the upcoming school quality news in St.prp. No 1st@item: We will cooperate with all current actors on this, and of course with the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1339	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1342	A good school management is, according to the opinion of the Progress Party and an overall committee, an important element in getting a good school. We know that today we are struggling with a lot of trouble and unrest in Norwegian school, and the Progress Party has promoted its own proposal to find solutions to this problem. In our proposal we show, among other things: to Terje Ogden's book "Quality School" and the focus that Ogden has on class management. We know that there are major differences today in the problems and concerns of classrooms and teachers in the management of discipline problems. So my question is, what measures does the Council of State see separately in order to give teachers the necessary competence to exercise good class management?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1349	The representative of Gåsvatn addresses an important issue, on which there has also been a significant debate in recent times. I think one of the most important tasks we're facing at school is to ensure that the teachers have the skills to both rent a class and to carry out other forms of teaching in a good way. So I want to put a lot of emphasis on the quality of the school. How we can strengthen teachers' competence in the future, how we should ensure that teachers see it as a universal part of being taught that they should be able to take on-the-job training, and that teachers in school can think about it systematically. Then one of the key questions will be class leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1354	The Council of State is quite right that this is an unusually pleasant committee, but I can also promise the Council of State that there will be times when we disagree and where at least the opposition parties in the Committee will show up from a slightly harder side than today. Having said that, I would like to say that I am very pleased with the signals that have come that the proposals that have been promoted by the Right will be included in a broad assessment that comes in connection with the Storing Message. I want to challenge the Council of States on an adjoining theme. We've seen in the last few days, and so far really since summer, quite a lot of disturbing reports that there's a lot of loss of education time in school. It is, to the most extent, a school ownership and school management responsibility. In early autumn, the right promoted a proposal to carry out a national survey of the reasons for so much loss of school education and its scope. I would like to challenge the Council of State on his thoughts about it, and whether there may be a proposal that the parties of government want to support.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1365	I know that proposal, and I thought the representative raised a very important question. It's clear that it's related to what we're discussing today, to school leadership, and not least to teachers' competence in hiring a class and using other forms of teaching in school. It's alarming that such a large part of the teaching time in the school is going away, so it's one of the challenges of quality that we have in the school ahead. I don't want to tell you today what measures will come, but I'm busy with this problem and I think we need to go deeper into the reasons for it, and see what we can do with it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1372	I remember, just like the Council of State, my first principal, who was a very knowledgeable person and a safe adult. He did not choke, I think, but he put limits in force by showing a good example that was so clear that it inspired most. I understand that the Council of State and I on behalf of the Left agree that we should have teachers who are knowledgeable and safe. Does the Council of State see a situation in which this headmaster, whom I believe we are fully agreed to have a pedagogical background, is given a systematic formalized supplementary education – this for two reasons: firstly, because he is to lead his colleagues, but secondly, also in order that he may be an inspiration that can simply wander around and inspire teachers to make good efforts, and which drives what is called the ‘Leadership by Walking Around’? This is my open question to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1379	It is good that we have the same experience – only from slightly different periods of time – with our childhood principals. As I said earlier, I want to focus monthly on the ability to conduct professional guidance and development of the school. I'm of that opinion that there's the key question within the school. How do we manage to create a school where the principals and other leaders, teachers who are in classrooms, focus on the quality of the training, the results that students achieve, and the content and the pedagogics that are in the center? I do not want to say what the final proposals I want to make are, but I have notified that much of the representative that Mr. Dørum is addressing will be assessed in the forthcoming report on quality in school. So I'm going to come back to it monthly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1388	Now we've heard a lot of beautiful words. We know that the message is coming, and it'll be good to read what's coming. But the core is that there must also be funds. It is a well-known German proverb that says ‘Die laste beissen die Hunde’, i.e. that, after all, there are actually some people who are going to implement what government has decided. Can the Council of State promise that there will also be enough resources to implement such plans, so that it does not become, as has often been seen, that things are adopted, and then does it not follow the means to fulfil them?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1396	It's at least one thing I've got with me in my short time, and it's that proposals for funds put before the Biggest in the annual government budgets, and that's where they're presented. Now we want to deliver a big message about quality in the school. A central question that would be schooling. I have now said a little about my thoughts on it, but I have not concluded when it concerns several of the important questions raised by the representative proposal and raised by several representatives. When it comes to economic follow-up, I refer to the annual budgets, and when it comes to the content and conclusions I want to present to the Storting, I refer to the big message I want to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1403	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 648]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1421	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 40 minutes by up to 5 minutes to each batch and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines by up to five lines after contributions from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will also make suggestions that those who have to sign up for the speaking list in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1430	Today we are invited to start developing and financing the two E6 sections Hovinmoen-Dal and Creatorud-Colomoen. This is the start of the major expansion of E6 in Akershus and Hedmark. I am pleased that the government of Stoltenberg wants to start the development of the E6 as soon as possible, and that the government therefore proposes to start the development of the two sections, where there are approved control plans. The Government considers the benefits for road safety and traffic management to be so high that the development should therefore start as soon as possible. The goal remains the continuous expansion of E6 between Gardermoen and Colomoen. The E6 Gardermoen–Colomoen financing facility is therefore presented to the Stortinget in two rounds. The financing arrangement for the project, as proposed by the Government in the proposal, has joined the districts of Akershus and Hedmark. I refer to the strong local involvement in Hedmark and Akershus for the development of E6 on the heavily trafficked route and the various decisions taken locally in municipalities, county councils and at the centre of Stortinget to enable the development. The government will also come back to Stortinget with a proposal for a final arrangement for the entire Gardermoen-Colomoen route as soon as adequate clarifications are available. I believe treatment in two rounds is a good way of working, with emphasis on the need for a quick start to the construction work. I am familiar with the delays in the planning processes for the Minnesund-Skaberud section. It is important that these plans are approved so quickly that missing plans do not stop work, which in turn will affect road users. The State Road Administration and the Railway Agency have coordinated the process with municipal sub-plans for the development of E6 and the Dovrebanen in Eidsvoll and Stange municipalities. I am in favour of a planning process that takes into account the central intentions of the national transport plan, and assumes that the agencies benefit from the experience of this cooperation. On routes where the track and the road are physically close to each other, there will often be many advantages that road and track are also developed at the same time. An overall expansion can significantly reduce the burden on those affected by the expansion compared to two independent installation periods. Overall development can also improve the efficiency of the works and reduce costs. On some routes along Mjøsa, road and railway parcels are likely to be close together. If it turns out that it is also possible to obtain concurrent periods of expansion, I assume that the government initiates the overall development of such parcels. Right is eager to engage Public Private Cooperation, OPS, also in the case of E6. We have just received an evaluation report from the Transport Economic Institute, TØI, on OPS. I think that the ink in the report must be allowed to dry before we propose new projects after the same reading. At least we have to take the time to read it. I have read a little, among other things. it is difficult to say whether OPS is more expensive or less expensive than normal road construction. The road construction has progressed rapidly in the OPS projects. It is important for road users who get new and safer roads in the past. But it is possible to speed up road development even without OPS, still according to the report. The simplest model is that Stortinget grants enough money to build the large projects continuously and in good run. It's actually proved to this government that it's willing to do. I'm busy with the middle parts. This has a high impact on road safety. The new route is a total of 66 km and the physical separation of traffic in the opposite direction will undoubtedly lead to fewer serious accidents. There are many challenges to the planning work related to the new E6, but I hope local planning processes can go quickly. Coherent expansion is so important, among other things. to reduce the number of deaths and damage that I am asking the Government to assess a state regulatory plan if it is considered necessary to ensure continuous development. Today is a good day. The Storting said yes to the development of a new E6 between Gardermoen and Colomoen. The lack of plans and clarifications and the fact that the Stortinget does not process the entire project together do not in fact overshadow the joy that the Stortinget today decides to start the development. This project will mean a lot to Inland Norway. We will have reduced transport costs, which are important for business. But the most important thing is that we, who drive this route in a few years, can drive on a much safer road.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1461	The country needs efficient, safe and environmentally friendly roads. This project, which includes two stages of a total of six sections, will provide significant improvements, significant benefits, in road safety and traffic management on a road bill that is currently heavily traffic and accident-related. This is an important project. That's good it's going to happen, although the case only deals with two stages of a total of six on a total distance of 67 km – truly a sad, but clear presentation of Norwegian road development: small, late and expensive! It's late when we're going to build a distance of 67 kilometers in six different stages. One of the reasons is a lack of plan clearance. In the opinion of the Progress Party, it refocuss on the need for stronger state governance to speed up road development in Norway, and not least to make it formally possible for planning and decision-making. It'll be expensive when we build a distance of 67 km in six stages. In the next case the Stortinget will deal with here today, the Ministry answers questions about this that staged expansion provides an increased cost of at least 10–15 pst. Now the costs of the project we are dealing with today are updated as late as November 20, i.e. yesterday. Total expansion for the entire route will cost NOK 4.7 billion, and the two stages this case concerns, NOK 1.34 billion. So the incremental expansion can lead to a total of between 500 million. NOK 700 million and SEK 700 million. kr more expensive than necessary. It'll be extra expensive to finance with tolls. No one is surprised that it is expensive to buy on payment. Toll financing means that the drivers buy their way on pay and the extra costs are formidable. The projects in this case will cost the drivers 5 pst. more than the investment – 5 pst. more than the investment — interest, operation of a toll station and establishment of a toll station provide an additional cost of 480 million. kr. For the entire project, i.e. the total expansion of the entire route, the drivers have to pay almost 5.3 billion for a total project that costs 4.8 billion to build – 1.64 billion in interest, 280 million. kr in operation of toll stations and 50 mills. kr for the establishment of a tolling arrangement. Let's take the extra cost of 15 pst. in the case of staged expansion, the extrapolation shall be foreshadowed. In total, it is approaching NOK 6 billion for a road system that costs SEK 4.8 billion to build. It is expensive to be rich — at least when the wealth is unsafely located outside the country’s borders in uncertain financial investments. It's not just on existing road networks it's queue. Road projects are also in line. The queue of road projects is longer than ever, even when Norway's oil fund abroad has passed 2 billion kroner; 2000 billion kroner. Norwegian money is in investment queues abroad, while Norwegian drivers have to finance Norwegian roads in Norway with a discount. The government encourages municipalities, counties and regions to ‘snake in line’. The politically correct term is «local initiative», according to the supporters of toll financing – and that is all the parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party. The party of progress will call this ‘political extortion’. When representatives of the political leadership in the department so clearly state that without a bomb there is no way out, many parties and many political constellations are being pushed into toll financing – unfortunately. Road toll financing means that the State allows others to pay for it. It also means that the scheme to supplement and help the State in its statutory task of financing road development in Norway is now the main form of funding for road development in Norway – not necessarily and immorally expensive! The Progress Party would like to build the road, and we would like to build both these two stages and the entire project with state resources. Not only that, we also want the entire corridor from Gardermoen to Otta to be expanded – with state funding. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. Proposal No. 2 is an alternative to the Committee's proposal for a regulation. Proposal No. 3 is on its own. We ask that we subsidize the proposal promoted by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left to get more OPS projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1496	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1499	After hearing the last part of Eirin Faldet's posts and the last part of Arne Sortevik's posts, I thought I had come wrong, that I had come into the big budget debate. We can take a round of both toll financing and OPS now, but I think we'll leave the main gravity of it to the budget debate that we're going to have on December 6th. I am at least very pleased that the government came to the right to meet our demand for the division and start of the Gardermoen–Dal and Creatorud–Colomoen. It would take too long to wait for control plans for the entire Gardermoen-Colomoen route. Now partial sections of one of Norway's most trafficked and, unfortunately, also the most unpalatable roads. The sooner you start expanding, the better. But of course, it is very important to continue working on plans for other sections so that you can get a continuous development, which the two previous speakers have been involved in. In this context, it is important for the Right to stress that it is obvious that local regulatory authorities, i.e. the municipalities, add the credit for progressing in the plans. However, like the previous speakers – perhaps not as strongly as the representative of Sortevik – the large majority of the Committee of State Councils is asking the government to assess regulatory plans if they do not progress in the plans. That's because E6 is the lifeblood between north and south. It's an important road for the interior. It's an important local road. It's an important regional route. But first of all, it's a tribal road and a main road between north and south. In this respect, national considerations must be essential for the development of this route. We are therefore also asking that one look at the possibility of seeing the whole route on E6 to Otta as a whole, and pick out the sections that are suitable for OPS funding. I now note that an overall opposition – to the extent that it has always been – sees OPS funding as a suitable tool for further deployment of E6 and other projects. We refer to the recently submitted report on Public Private Cooperation, OPS, from the Transport Economic Institute, which Eirin Faldet was also involved. Evidence is provided that one can halve the realization time of new major road projects using OPS organisation and financing. So there'll be a discussion about the costs -- we'll take it later. But at least there is nothing to suggest that the OPS projects are becoming more expensive. The reason why they become at least as expensive as the usual projects is in that case the loan mechanism that requires them to enter the private lending market and finance, unlike in other countries where funds with the lowest interest rate can be collected from the country. The ink must be dry before the OPS report is produced and evaluated, said Eirin Fallet in his article. Then I don't know if I'm going to interpret it as a good news, namely that when the ink has become dry, the representative will fall open to OPS. In any case, it was the government’s intention to assess when the evaluation report had arrived. It is well stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that even when the evaluation report on OPS came, the Government would decide whether this was a good way to finance road projects. We in the opposition, at least we in the Right, have noticed with great satisfaction that the State Road Service of the Road and We, by Director Lars Aksnes, has now taken an official position to support further use of the OPS on behalf of the Vegvesen. So we're anxious to wait for what the government parties and the Minister of Transport will mean about OPS. As I said before, this is a clarification, and we look forward to it. And then the pale will be dry. I had not expected the representative to embrace the OPS model today, but I hope that the Government and the Council of State, hopefully already in the budget debate, can give some signals about OPS – if she does not choose to do so today. I am raising the proposal to which the Right is a co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1518	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1521	The rapporteur and the other speakers have already given a thorough account of the substance of the matter. I would therefore like to touch briefly on some points that the Christian People's Party is particularly concerned about. Route 6 is the main transport year throughout our long-distance country, from the Kirkenes to the Svinesund. Therefore, any improvement in E6 is of major importance for industry and transport in large parts of the country. It is therefore very gratifying that we now start with two sections on the Gardermoen-Colomoen route. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we get a clarification of the trajectory elections on the remaining parcels as soon as possible. For the Christian People's Party, it is very important that we now focus on the whole of the E6, so that this main race is given a consistently good standard, for the benefit of a business that is initially very far away from the European market. The current route we are dealing with today is heavily trafficked and has many serious accidents. It is therefore high time that we started repairing it. It is very good that it has been set up to draw up common regulatory plans for E6 and rail on the Minnesund-Skaberud route. There are opportunities for efficiency gains. We are facing major environmental challenges, and it will be a great advantage if we get to a parallel development of road and track in this area. The Christian People's Party has also noted the desire of Akershu County Councils to establish a package of Park and Ride coordinated with public transport. In the Christian People's Party, we assume that the Minister of Transport will follow this point. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the Government will return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with a final arrangement for the entire route. We understand that there may be different perceptions of what kind of trasé choices are the best overall, but some have to finally put their feet down and say that enough of the investigations are enough. That is why we are in the majority who ask the Government to use state regulatory plan if the clarification goes out disproportionately in time. An overall opposition refers to the suspension of the recently submitted report on public private cooperation from the Transport Economic Institute. [[OPS]] Evidence is provided here that the implementation time of major road projects can almost halve by using OPS funding and organisation. In several respects, Minister for Transport Navarsete has stated that she has not put an end to OPS. She just wants the evaluation on the table before she takes the final position. Now there is a positive evaluation on the table. Then, in the Christian People's Party, we expect the Minister to take the consequences and evaluate the OPS organisation in the next projects on the same route.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1536	Today, we are going to decide on a project dealing with the repair of E6 Gardermoen-Colomoen, a total of 66 km. This project will start in two out of six sections in total – the Hovinmoen–Dal section in Akershus, 11 km, and the Creatorud–Colomoen section in Hedmark, 12 km. There are these two projects that are now being prepared to start. In that context, I would like to point out that the government has got things moving quickly. She was presented in June after the Council approved the split of the expansion into two phases, as there was no secession in the municipalities of Eidsvoll and Stange to make plan decisions on the entire section in time. This project is part of an important tribal route for the whole of the North West, for the whole of Central Norway and for the whole of Northern Norway, as well as for the hinterland. It's a stretch with a lot of traffic and a lot of accidents. Although the road standard is good, they do not have enough capacity, nor do they share the running conditions. The development of four-field roads is taking place in many places in the country now. I find reason to remember that four-field road development in central districts is only part of the government's road policy. Equally important is the resolution of dangerous, time-consuming and environmentally polluting tribal roads and other territorial highways. It's like a whole 1,600 km of tribal road has no width to get yellow stripe. This must take precedence over the next NTP. Similarly, it is important to implement the new road projects that develop robust rural and labour market regions in the districts. An important objective of this project is to ensure better traffic management and increase road safety. Traffic growth has been strong. It is worth noting that the capacity has exploded on this road, which was largely built new to Lillehammer-OL in 1994. For the Centre Party, it is important to get more of the traffic on rail and boat. It's such a big step forward that the government here sees road and rail in context in planning. And then one might wish that both parts were realized at the same time, but when the sources of funding are so different, we can't wait to build the way out. Some are afraid of moving from train to road when the road is finished first. I guess the tolls might be on and off in the opposite direction. I think it is important to focus on the way the project is financed. I think it is important to make the difference between providing quick funding and providing adequate funding. By the fact that, among other things, the adoption of policy decisions ending toll financing, this project may now be launched. A new element in this toll project is that one here will pay tolls depending on the number of kilometres one is running. Such a collection system has not been tested before and will of course need to be evaluated during the process. A clear premonition is that it only loads the individual car list according to how much part of the road is running. However, the centre party is aware that it is its public responsibility and would invest in its infrastructure. Toll financing is a tool useful in addition to and inconclusive to local initiatives, because it provides more remedy for existing roads and new roads, and that is precisely the overarching thing. The opposition batch points to OPS expansion. Let me just remind you that there is no magic form either. Firstly, using OPS does not mean that the budget for the carriage of passengers is being provided with fresh money, but that a timer is different by withdrawing future budget streams now. Thus is the result of using OPS that a tie up the future budgets. Such a loan scheme will allow you to start a project. One will soon notice that a 'bit itself in the tail' by locking the future budget, thus reducing the scope for action to give priority to new projects later. Summary: the Centre Party sees trafficking as the triggering moment for the development of living communities. We are pleased with the plural recommendation here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1557	The rapporteur has given an excellent account of this matter, and there is a great deal of consensus in the Committee. So I'm not going to spend a long time. Of course, for an Akershus representative, this is a joyous day, even though we know that there are still some challenges ahead. E6 from Gardermoen to Colomoen is one of the most unfortunate distances we have in this country. It has been described in some media as the ‘death route’, so here it really is urgent to start construction. The urgency of this route is one of the reasons why the Left has joined with the other opposition parties and recommended a OPS solution. I want to challenge the Minister of Transport and the Government parties on this. We've also heard a lot about this today. I do not fully understand what is the reason why we do not want to move on this road-hazardous route as quickly as possible. Trond Helleland mentioned in his contribution the development director of the State Road Administration, and we have also heard about the conclusion of the TØI report here today. Otherwise, it is positive that the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency have coordinated the process with municipal plans for the development of E6 and the Dovrebanen in Eidsvoll and Stange municipalities. The development of road and rail at the same time can make the works more efficient and reduce costs. Hopefully that can also affect the travel pattern of people. As you know, the left is very busy getting both people and goods from road to road, and then it is important that it is organized for this. Initially, I said that I was very concerned with the fastest possible progress of E6 on the Gardermoen-Colomoen route, and then it is perhaps a little strange that I am not going in to assess a state regulatory plan to ensure continuous development. In fact, I myself have been sitting in Akershus County and spoke warmly for an environmentally friendly solution in connection with the development of E6. Of course, this is about the beach zone in the Mjøs region. There was also a cross-political Akershu County that meant this. Now I know there's going to be a new inspection on December 13 on the Akershus side of Mjösa. My hope is that there can be agreement and that the beach zone can be preserved. I understand that conservation of the beach zone has been important for the government parties once. So important was it once that they went to state purchase. Well, in this round, it's the Hovinmoen-Dal and the Creatorud-Colomoen. These are uncontroversial tracks and there are approved control plans. It is now important to ensure that progress is maintained and that it can be opened up to traffic during 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1571	In the context of the forthcoming National Transport Plan Scoreboard, the Government has provided guidelines for a work on a national transport policy target structure for the period 2010–2019. The final target structure will be identified in the national transport plan main message. However, increased emergence and reduced distance costs, as well as increased road safety, are key objectives of the proposed target structure. These are the goals I think we can only change across the games. Adherence to overarching objectives in practical policy can be a challenge. That is why I am pleased to have a case in Stortinget that will greatly help us to achieve important transport policy objectives. E6 on the line between the Gardermoen and the exit at the Colomoen to rv. 3 to the Elverum and the Østerdalen are very unsafe. Between 1994 and 2006, there have been a total of 41 fatal cases with 49 deaths on the route. These are dramatic figures, and the cost to society and the burden to families and to individuals is very high. Therefore, it is urgent to build E6 into a road with good standard and good traffic safety features. Among other things, the distance will be extended with a mid pull or with a distinction between the running forces. These are very important, and well documented, measures to reduce the number of deaths on the route. 80 pst. of the deaths during the period 1994–2006 were killed in meeting hours. The route has had a lot of traffic, especially after the establishment of a new main airfield on the Gardermoen. Traffic on the route varies between well over 20,000 running gear south of Gardermoen and about 12,000 in north along Mjösa and further towards the exit to Rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox Traffic on weekends and in summer is monthly higher on the whole stretch. In St.meld. No 24 for 2003-2004 on the National Transport Plan 2006-2015, the development of E6 between Gardermoen and Colomoen was presented as a single project. The planning of the action has also been based on the Storting's management of the message that the project should be presented as a comprehensive financing plan. However, in the process, there has been a large gap in the vision of solutions to parts of the distance, a gap that has led to insufficient clarifications to present a single financing plan today. However, I have considered it as likely to start the project as quickly as possible, in the interests of both road safety and the development of the route. I'm glad it's a full political deal to share the project this way. The Ministry of Transport aims at providing a final financing plan for the remaining sections when final plan clearance is in progress. The Ministry of Transport still has a measure of a continuous expansion of E6 between Gardermoen and Colomoen. The Ministry of Transport facilitated the initiation of the bidding process by the State Road Administration, immediately following the submission of the depositing proposal on the basis of which the Committee had been set up, under the authority of the Stortinget, of the project’s approval. After the opening of the tender, there are covered supply prices higher than those underlying the governance framework, and also above the cost framework presented in St.prp. No 87 for 2006-2007. The Ministry of Transport has addressed this issue by letter of 20 November 2007 to the Committee on Transport and Communications. As a consequence, the Ministry of Transport is now laying down a governance framework of 1340 million in 2007 and a cost framework of 1400 million in 2007 kroner. Higher prices than expected are unfortunately a phenomenon we're looking at some plants, especially in the spring of this year. I have asked the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency to monitor the situation and to ensure that the etats quickly come up with measures to improve competition, both in the domestic market and internationally. I am very pleased with the support provided by the Ministry of Transport at Stortinget today, and I look forward to a good development of a road that will be of great benefit to both the region and as an important route to cross-border and interconnectivity between the country and other regions of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1597	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1600	The Council of State refers to letters from yesterday that indicate cost estimates, and repeats the argument we have heard before that this is primarily due to the industry and great activity. Effective competition is important, so we would like to support the Council of State to do something about the design of the projects so that more operators can be opened up. But it is also important to improve the quality assurance of your own planning work, so I assume that the Council of State will also be very aware of that. I have the quality assurance report for this project. Just like for other projects, it's actually important to keep up with it. This report, for this project, says among other things: the uncertainty of the estimate of costs appears to be ‘greater than the project itself has concluded’ and that ‘some entries have also been made after the project has carried out its analysis’. Here, then, there is a great potential for improvement in the very project base of the Vegvesen. I assume the Council of State will follow it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1607	It is important to provide the Storting with as good a basis as possible, and of course also for the Department's handling in its preparation for the Storting's handling of such matters, that the work done is as good a quality as possible. The new quality assurance system, both in the early phase, KS1, and in a later phase, KS2, shall be a hub in this way. It does not, of course, exempt our own budgets from quality assurance of our own work and ensure that the underlying provisions are sustainable. It's something that both the Council of State and the entire Ministry of Transport have a lot of attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1612	There is a majority in this position from the Labour Party, Right, SV, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party – and the Progress Party has its own comment that goes even further – that goes on the challenges associated with the planning of the new E6 and we hope that local planning processes can move quickly. At the same time, the majority calls on the Government to assess the State regulatory plan if it is deemed necessary to ensure continuous development. As the government parties are aware of this, I expect this to be something that the Council of State will also consider if necessary. Could the Council of State say anything about how she views this with state regulation plan related to important tribal roads? Where localisation is concerned, is the Council of State prepared to use state regulatory plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1617	Government plan is a tool that has been used little in Norway, but has been used for some important projects where one has not arrived locally. When it comes to this project, we now have an objection in the Ministry of the Environment. There shall be a view on 13 December, where both the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of the Department of the Environment will participate, and we shall, of course, follow the procedure for recommending our recommendation to the Ministry of the Environment, which will then take a decision. I want to follow that process out, of course, as normal. We will also follow the exact processes locally. If, after a thorough discussion, I do not intend to find a solution that will allow the project to be carried forward in a defensive way – and after the wish expressed not least here today – I am willing to assess the government plan for this project, because it is a very important project both regionally and for the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1622	On this stretch that we're dealing with today, we're going to build a great four-field road with high standards, and we're going to build a modern railway, maybe the double-track. Then I think it is very exciting what has come as a wish from Akershu County, that you coordinate and build the Park and Ride in parallel, so that you can park the car and take the track on this route. I see that the department is taking a positive view of it. My question is then: does it mean that you want to input into the financing costs of the total project that one should build one or two such ‘Park and Ride’ facilities along the route, so that you can walk from the road to the track?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1627	I thought the proposal from Akershu County was exciting. First of all, it is an important innovation that we now plan roads and railways. It has a bad cork in Eastfold or Westfold, and it's time to get there that we see the different modes of transport more closely in context. Of course, further planning will clarify the financing of ‘Park and Ride’. I want to work to find good solutions to this in cooperation between the Swedish Road Authority and the Railway Agency. So we haven't gotten there yet that I can give a final answer, but we're working on finding good solutions for it. It will then be part of a system that will be developed at the same time as we build these projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1634	I will follow up Trond Helleland's question. Is it true that it is not relevant for the Government to comply with local requests for trajectory choices? Is that not true?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1639	We now have a process that I shouldn't be forwarding today. That process is now primarily directed by the Ministry of the Environment. Once that process has been completed and the local processes have been completed, we should decide how we should proceed. I don't have the ability today to say what will become the final decision here, because this is a matter that is still in process.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1644	First a little bit more about quality assurance. We have a regime, but it is important that those who make the projects take up the conclusions of those who perform the quality assurance. It is not unique for this project – rather on the contrary. There are a number of the projects that are now on their way back to Stortinget, which are characterised by their poor project base, created by the State Road Administration. So here's a good reason to go back to your own profession. So, on stage development. Can the Council confirm that we are talking about an additional cost of at least 10–15 pst.? In any case, it is explained in the next case – at least 10–15 pst., and there is a small project that is the starting point for the question. Here we have a project that is approaching 5 billion dollars to expand. What does it cost that we have chosen this solution with many stages instead of one overall, big expansion?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1652	When it comes to the project management that is, I want to distance myself from the fact that we have poor project management in the state road system. We have a good establishment. We have had a situation from May to now that it was very difficult for the department to predict. This does not apply only to road and rail transport. All those who work with other types of construction, both public and private, have marked it. When it comes to step-by-step expansion, the proposition says that we want to get a continuous expansion. We still haven't added it. That's still the point. If we do that, we won't get any extra cost. The additional costs will be incurred if you need to rig down the project organisation and start up a new project organisation. I hope that we will avoid this in connection with this project and continue to work towards that goal in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1659	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1664	Let me first thank the Council of State for an offensive attitude in this important matter. It's time we got this case up, and we start building a road map where there's been a significant number of fatal accidents in the last few years. The last fatal accident was October 22nd this year. It's a very high statistic. The traffic on this route is twice as high as that of a quadruple road. There's a lot of traffic. Then there's someone who says we should instead expand public transport to reduce the pressure on the roads. It's important for large parts of this area. There have been significant improvements in public transport, from Eidsvoll via Gardermoen to Oslo, in recent years, but this is not enough to correct the huge traffic growth that we have seen on this route. We now need to start road construction in order to get safer roads and create more security. Then there's a question about trajectory choices in the areas of Mjösa. There are large natural areas that the local population wants to protect, and that commitment is important. I look forward to having a good discussion about the trasé selection in the areas around Mjösa in the time to come. Today, I would like to thank the Council of State for finally starting the construction of the southernmost part of this road section.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1677	As Akershus' representative, I am very pleased that we are now receiving an extension decision for the Gardermoen-Dal section. As has been said before, the accident figures on this road make it absolutely necessary to start expanding. The transition between the four-field motorway and the two-field road without the middle parts has created conditions that we cannot live with. That is why I want to give the Ministry of Transport credit for the way they have invited Stortinget to resolve the matter. Now the development can start, and the actors will have time to find acceptable solutions for the development along Mjøsa. I am surprised that the solutions with open routes for four-field roads and two rail tracks in Mjösa's beach zone have not created any major counter-representations at the State Road Service, at the Railway Agency or at the State authorities for the rest. On other occasions, the Storting will discuss whether we have a well-functioning law to prevent the construction of the beach zone. We all know that the coastal zone along lakes has a different protection from the coastal zone against fjords and seas. Nevertheless, the Mjøsa beach area is a cultural landscape of great national importance. Therefore, not only do I understand, but I also have sympathy for the local authorities' struggle for solutions that protect the beach zone in a better way than the development authorities have put up so far. Nor is it difficult to share the concerns about the cost growth of the projects that several tunnel solutions will represent, but I would like to show that here the toll company, at least by the owners, Akershus and Hedmark, has made recordings that provide opportunities to assess solutions that are more gentle. I see that the majority assess the state regulatory plan if it is deemed necessary to ensure continuous development. I hope it will not be necessary to use a government regulatory plan, although I also share the wish for a continuous development. Of course, it is the responsibility of Eidsvoll and Stange to obtain acceptable solutions, but the responsibility is no less with the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency. The attention to Mjösa's beach zone requires caution in the interventions we expose the rich cultural landscape to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1688	It is not yet known how expensive the entire E6 project will be between Gardermoen and Colomoen. It depends, among other things, on: whether the politicians accept the construction of the road in the Mjösa beach zone, between Minnesund and Stange, as the State Road Service and the Railway Agency will, or whether it is laid in a long tunnel, or up the hill, as the local population so wishes. But the line up in the hill is not yet figured out. However, I hope we do not get into a situation that means that we have to postpone the entire E6 project and put it on a waiting list, which has been mentioned here before today. A new four-field road from Gardermoen to Colomoen and further northwards is very important for many reasons. When introducing a bomb charge, the Progress Party sees the danger of a leakage to other roads to avoid this charge. In principle, it has been decided that there should not be a bomb charge on parallel routes to new E6, but I clearly see the danger of traffic leaks and more traffic on parallel roads. This can be a major problem, and it also concerns the local population. E6 development is not primarily about economics, but about human costs. The accident figures on the E6 north of the Gardermo are so high that any postponement is an unnecessary gambling with human life. Every year of delays leads to the loss of new lives. In other words, it is a significant responsibility of central and local politicians to reach an agreement that does not delay the project further. New E6 with four lanes and middle parts from Jessheim and northwards to Gudbrandsdalen is the only thing that can prevent more tragic fatal accidents. Sorry, the message is being updated again and again. In 2003, four people died in a meeting accident at Brumunddal. A year and a half ago, former veggie chief Stein Fyksen stated that all the fatal accidents at E6 from Jessheim and northward were a national disaster. When ten people lose their lives in the same accident, it is defined as a national disaster, but paradoxically we barely lift the eyebrows when ten lives are lost on the same road billing in a year. The fox also said that if this had been a route, it would have been closed a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1703	As a resident of Rome, and with a cabin in the Gudbrand valley, I use this stretch relatively often. And I know how little is going to happen before it goes wrong here. You don't have to be very unfocused until the major accident happens. This has been mentioned by several, and it is obvious to all those who have driven this route. That's why it's good to get started. Those who have driven here lately also see that you have made a good start clearing forests along the entire stretch. What is regrettable, and this follows the policy of this Government in terms of transport, is funding. We see in this case that state funds will only amount to 32 pst. What we as citizens of Rome now experience is that in a short time we are going to be walled inside a bombing, a bombing. So we have the new toll station that's going to be on the route from the Gardermoen and up E6 we have tolls on rv. 35 from Gardermoen to Lunner, we have Rv. 2 The King's Wing Road, which has just opened, and we have the bombing around Oslo, which is going to be there in the foreseeable future. This is an irresponsible policy towards the taxpayers of Rome’s – in the world’s richest country – and it cannot continue. In addition, we have the Oslopakket 3 proposal, with which the Government, hopefully, will come along, where the state will only contribute peanuts in relation to the total costs and the total needs. For the Gardermoen and upwards section, there shall be antenna points there. Inhabitants in Eidsvoll municipality must probably pass through several antenna points in their own municipality. This is irresponsible. I have heard so far in this debate several speakers from the government parties boasting of the Government in this matter. That's pretty special. Here, thanks should be given to the municipalities – and to the drivers, in so far as – for contributing to the progress of this case, and to the drivers for participating in and financing the entire project. Dagfinn Sundsbø and Borghild Tenden have eagerly voted for tolls in the years they have been a member of the district council in Akershus. If you are going to have a state regulation, you have to include the recordings made by the municipalities of Eidsvoll and Stage, so that the municipalities can also take advantage of some of their views regarding the preservation of the beach zone along Mjösa.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1718	Only a few brief comments from one who uses this route relatively often and is also from one of the states affected by the road. For me and a lot of people, this is a joyous day when it comes to the development itself. There is a high-traffic road bill — much of the traffic consists of trucks, a mixture of Norwegian and non-resident road trains. This suggests that the road route is often exposed to accidents and the damage is relatively often of a serious nature. When one has an annual traffic of well over 20,000 vehicles, the road has to be of a similar character to meet this challenge. There's been a lot of lack on some sections. So it's very positive what's going to happen now. In the long term, the road will also be an environmental benefit, as there are often queues today when traffic is at its highest, with the additional environmental pressures that this will bring. Some road users also get stressed and take chances, which in some cases lead to accidents. As far as funding is concerned, former party representatives have taken care of it. I have to say that adding a large part of the costs to the drivers is wrong. The right thing must be that the state takes the full and full funding. Norway can afford this. Otherwise, I have previously just mentioned E6 in Stortings Question Time several times, such as. 15 February 2006, precisely on the basis of all the accidents that have occurred along this road. For example, in Hamar Arbeiderblad, January 25, 2006, we could read about another serious fatal accident. And in the VG of 7 February 2006, we could read that "12 lives could have been saved" by an extension. In addition, we would save approx. NOK 1 billion – all of this according to the calculation by the Association of Machine Contractors. Many of the accidents would have been avoided, for example: middle parts, as many accidents are caused by the vehicle getting into the wrong lane. Between 1989 and 2005, 18 people were killed, 40 were seriously injured and 137 were more easily injured between Minnesund and Dal. This suggests that an expansion is in place – just a pity that it's coming so late, and that it's not going to be a bigger expansion while we're at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1733	Yes, there is reason to stress that this is a joyous day, not only for the district, but also for the whole of Norway. It's a central road we're talking about, so I just wanted to take the word a little bit around it with OPS and in and of itself also the state regulatory plan. I saw the case rapporteur there that the ink had to get dry before assessing OPS in the future, and I also perceived that the option was to grant more money. But there is a report here to show that using OPS is more efficient, and there should not be many reasons to wait a very long time for the ink to dry. We have to stop building roads at half speed in Norway, and get speed on the process. The second is this with state regulation. No one wants to use state regulation, but it is also obvious here that local communities are struggling to find solutions that everyone can accept. I'm driving both E6 and Rv. 2 pretty often, and on rv. 2 we've been struggling with local trasé elections for 20 years. It doesn't seem that the conflict is calming down, so sometimes it's actually necessary for someone to cut through and just say that the road has to go. I don't think it at all applies to E6. When the Council of State says that it is still a goal to have continuous expansion, I perceive that the tool has now been given to maintain continuous expansion. There are also many advantages to continuous development both by coordinating rail and road, because there is a shorter time to build up. So I look at the whole setting that is very good and I hope it will be adopted this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1742	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 649]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1758	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1767	This case concerns the construction of a new highway in Osterøy municipality in Hordaland, more specifically Rv. 567 between Hauge and Lonevåg. This road project will provide a new route from Osterøybrua to the Municipality Centre in Lonevåg. Construction is planned to start in the autumn of 2008 with traffic opening in 2011. A joint committee says yes to the project, but is divided into the view on funding. The members of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, align themselves with the proposal for partial toll financing. The Progress Party proposes the development of State funding. I will take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. From the case, it appears that the toll contribution in an investment of 194 million. kr – i.e. less than 200 mill. kr – shall be 91 million. kr, corresponding to 47 pst. It's surprising that the construction of a highway system is under 200 million. kr must at all times be financed by the toll hat in hand. Many have probably found that Norway’s oil fund abroad has now passed 2,000 million. kr. The toll bill is also going to be much larger here than shown. When a question is asked, a lucky answer is often given – as is the case in this case as well. When a question – as the Progress Party has done – is answered, the drivers will have to pay the entire interest cost for the project, at a rate of 33 million. kr over the amortisation period. When asked, an additional recovery costs related to this toll-funded project are estimated at 7 million. kr. So at the top of the toll bill, it's going to be 40 million. kr. It's gonna cost the drivers $40 million. Extra NOK 91 million. kr. If we measure this against the investment costs, the toll is 67 pst. and not 47 pst. It's hard to buy a road on the payroll! It is not surprising that such extras are not clearly mentioned when the toll propositions arrive at Stortinget. Who's going to pay? I quote from the proposition: ‘The main rule for toll collection is the principle of utility. Those who pay tolls shall benefit from the project. [[...]] The relationship between use and payment is getting worse the further away from the toll station. A simple number plate registration from June 2007 shows that 50 pst. of the traffic passing the toll station at Osterøybrua, on the current highway between Hauge and Lonevåg during the period of registration of 12 hours.’» So 50 pst. by those who cross the bridge and pay tolls for the new project will use the road itself. There is reason to stress that Osterøybrua, where the collection takes place, is built as a toll project and in stages in three stages. Each of them has been dealt with by and approved by a majority of the Stortinget. This is a new project, a new project associated with existing toll collection for another project. It is a new example of expanded and creative toll usage approved by this government. The Party of Progress reacts strongly when choosing such a solution. When tolls are collected by anyone passing the bridge, while only 50 pst. of those passing the bridge who actually want to use the new road, there is a ambiguity and gross breach of the principle of utility – a utility principle that both the Biggest toll batches collectively indicate that they feel bound by, and on which, through their toll directive, the EU attaches great importance. The «local initiative» in this case is a majority decision of the Municipal Council for the Use of Tolls. The inhabitants were not asked – not directly. But the inhabitants are still trying to be heard. I understand that this case is being filed with the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. I can add that the Advance Party is more than happy to assist the complainants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1800	Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1803	This is such an important day for Osterøy and Hordaland that the Council of State should say some words. I am pleased that the plurality of the Committee has joined in the proposal for partial toll financing for the Hauge-Lonevåg project. The project is an extension of the existing toll scheme in Osterøy, which is initially a suspension project. The new extension covers approximately 3.3 km of new national road. Of these, about 1.5 km is a tunnel. A bridge of well 90 m along Lonevåg and new connecting roads towards Revheim and Hjellvik are also part of the project, as well as short sections of walking and cycling roads. Development will provide benefits in terms of road safety and make it easier to get to the municipality centre for a large part of the population. Rehabilitation of roads is crucial in order to improve the efficiency of transport for business and industrial establishment and development in Osterøy. This is seen in the fact that the industrial team locally has been a driving force for the cause and also set up with its own financial means. Road remediation will dissipate highways with such a narrow road width that there are many places where there is no passage for two cars, which creates both road-hazardous situations and higher fuel consumption. The project is thus a good example of the road development that the Government will prioritise more, both on the tribal road and on other national roads. It has been a step by step development of the road network in connection with Osterøybrua. The bridge was opened in 1997, and later the Tiråstunnelen and the route Rolland–Hauge are built. Questions have been asked about whether such a step-by-step expansion has resulted in additional costs in relation to what a single development in one project would have resulted in. When Osterøybrua was built, it would hardly be possible to finance a pool of development without additional state resources, which would have led to other projects not having been carried out. It has been provided for part-financing with tolls within the tolling period of 17 years, which was taken into account in St.prp. No 60 for 1999-2000 on the construction of the Hannisdal line. Higher traffic growth, about 6 pst. per 1 % average years from 1998 to 2006 and lower interest rates make this possible. The project will extend the tolling period by only two and a half years, within the previously agreed 17-year period. The estimated cost of the project is 198 million. 2007-krona. In addition to tolls, the financial plan includes both government funds and local subsidies, as well as government subsidies. As often before, the Progress Party marks "pure hands" in a toll case when it comes to the Stortinget. This time the party has not answered for tolls locally either, but I dare to remember them after a lot of things where the party does just that. There is therefore reason to conclude once again that with the current budgetary framework – which is otherwise significantly larger than in the previous period – there are no real differences in the practice of the party with regard to tolls. It's just supposed to look like this. Osterøy Brussel Company has switched from manual collection to the AutoPASS system. The new rates are 50 kroner for running gear and so on. 3500 kg and 165 SEK for a motor vehicle over 3500 kg. No valid adjustments or changes of these tariffs have been added for the extension of the existing toll project.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1822	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1825	I will not mention that the Council of State comes from a party that is not very happy with tolls either. I also agree with the Council's description of the need for the road. It's a happy day that they get a better way on Osterøy. But the funding is sad. It gives me the opportunity to ask where the boundary goes. So here it's -- at least with the eyes of the Council of State -- that 50 pst. using the road. Everyone has to pay. 50 pst. by the payers using the road. Where does the boundary of what is decent and acceptable to the Government? And when do the regulations come, which, at least to some extent, might limit the most creative crunches in the use of toll financing?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1832	As I've said a number of times in this room, it's the local authorities that produce these toll projects. This matter has an immeasurably large resolution locally. I have had requests from businesses, industrial associations, spokesmen – in several ways a particular keen spokesperson – and other authorities in the municipality who have welcomed this. This may be the most important criterion for implementing toll projects, more than both the cost of the toll project and other criteria. Then it's clear that the principle of utility is central. As stated in the Proposition: Although the enumeration shows 50 pst, this is local traffic, and one assumes that a greater part of the cars and users than the 50 pst. will benefit from this route.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1839	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 649]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1857	At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1866	As the rapporteur, I would like to take this opportunity to boast some of the representatives who have promoted this proposal. It is a thorough proposal, and it also addresses a very important issue, namely what will be a forward-looking agricultural policy. So far during this great period, the Economic and Social Committee has not had the opportunity to discuss in depth what will be a correct and forward-looking agricultural policy. The Government has not taken the opportunity to submit a case to the Committee on which this matter is raised. As the document shows, the last time the Stortinge had the opportunity to discuss a long-term future agricultural policy in the context of the treatment of St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000 in the spring of 2000. It's been quite a while. Therefore, it would have been important if we could now get a big message for spring that discussed what should be a proper agricultural policy. I am therefore quite shocked that the Council of State will not make such a communication, and that in his reply to the Committee he claims that there is no need for it, because there have been no major changes in agriculture since the spring of 2000. All those who have joined Norwegian agriculture in the last few years see that there have been major changes. So from the year 2000, it has become approx. 20,000 fewer farmers, almost half of the dairy farmers have laid down. There is considerable uncertainty in the industry about what is going to happen, both in terms of national agricultural policy and what international conditions will entail. Therefore, the time to do something now, and not in any years, is like the government might add up. It is clear that the EU is pressing on with regard to Norwegian agricultural policy, the EU is not satisfied with the Norwegian customs protection of agricultural products. There are also significant processes in the WTO now. It is possible that there will be no agreement in the negotiation round that is now, but we must prepare for that to happen. We in the Progress Party believe that it is regrettable that we must wait until a possible outcome of negotiations in the WTO exists. We are perhaps the country in the world that has the best opportunity to adapt agricultural policy now. We have great opportunities to set up tools at an early stage. In this case, the proposers frame a number of points which they believe should be discussed in a big message. There are developments in agriculture, international development, relations with the agricultural agreement, developments in economies of scale and co-operation, channelling policies, market mechanisms, which have been widely debated here in the Chamber during this period, such as taxes and levies as instruments of agricultural policy, the relationship with property rights and land policy and competition and consumer policy. In the setting, the Progress Party and the Right have agreed to stress the importance of promoting a large-scale message. The Left proposed the promotion of a case on the consequences of international circumstances and on the world market price of some agricultural products. This proposal has been supported by the Progress Party and the Right. It is regrettable that the government parties do not see the need to support any of these proposals. I take up the proposals, where the Progress Party stands as co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1887	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1890	I probably have to say after the previous speeches that we have a little different glasses on, or maybe it's that someone has glasses, and someone doesn't have them. I have a completely different approach, and I'm actually pushing over the private proposal of the four right-wing representatives. I almost don't understand it. I'm wondering what they really want. Many of the issues raised are all ahead of today's agricultural policy, and the Right set itself behind when they were in government Bondevik II: the production of safe food, agriculture throughout the country, food security, self-sufficiency, the focus on the cultural landscape, etc. One might briefly sum up the wishes of the proposers that tomorrow's agricultural policy should contain fewer transfers, fewer regulation and more free disposal of land, and that the right to negotiate should be removed. The government party doesn't agree that this is the way to go, rather the opposite. By having a hand on the right to negotiate in the agricultural sector, a new policy can take place. There is no doubt that agriculture faces many demands and major challenges, but also has many possibilities. The current world market situation, with high prices and high demand for food, gives the Norwegian farmer both challenges and opportunities. In this setting, we have asked the Government to provide an analysis of developments in the global food market, summarising possible impacts on Norwegian agricultural policy. This breakdown is to be made in the grubbing-up pro-position on agricultural settlement in the spring of 2008. I can't see that there's a good enough basis for a review of the entire agricultural policy now. Today's agricultural policy provides farmers with security at the bottom of all production. He's reasonably careful, and that's important for all industries, but perhaps especially for agriculture. Today's agricultural policy involves zoning that ensures agriculture throughout the country. Right goes another way. In the state budget of the year, they would cut the income transfers to the farmers by NOK 30000 per year. annual work. This is 18 pst. of the revenue. The reductions in direct transfers to the agricultural industry in the next year’s draft government budget are DKK 1.5 billion. And these are probably just the first steps. Do you think about escaping from the profession that wouldn't accelerate? I don't think a big fortune teller is needed to know that answer. Today we have an underproduction of sheep and cattle, not because the production has fallen, but because we have a more meat. Incentives to meet our own demand for meat, without farmers driving their own cannibalism, can quickly be put into action as the policy is now being pursued. Action in the field of landscape management provides a lead in the agricultural negotiations. We get the national policy this government wants, through the agricultural agreements. All the resources available to the garden should follow the garden as closely as possible. If the pieces of goods can be sold in pieces and divided, the use of the garden for future generations will be lost. The bus and bus duty is important, the concession law is the same. Food soil is a scarce resource, and this will become stronger in the future. There's a lot of warning lights here. Right does not give the farmer great prospects with this proposal, but it tells a lot about different political perception of reality. The Labour Party and the other government parties believe this proposal is in the wrong direction in relation to the policy we want to pursue. That is why we reject the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1913	Most of us are so realistic that we understand that the agriculture of the future cannot be built on nostalgia and good memories of childhood. I would like to say to the Labour Party representative that the Right stands for the same agricultural policy that we have always done. We strongly want to modernise agriculture. Today there are quite different demands on the farmer, and competition both locally and globally is becoming more and more effective. Although the number of farmers has fallen radically, production has remained at a relatively stable level. We have witnessed major changes, and there has been a major technical development in agriculture in the last 30 years. At the same time as the farmers' skills have increased, we find that farmers have come behind other groups in society in terms of income. And we feel that the Government will not acknowledge that the policy being pursued does not meet the needs of agriculture in a good way. It is hardly by chance that the representative Per Olaf Lundtägen of the Central Party of 24 October this year moved out into the Nation and stated that ‘Norwegian agriculture is in its worst crisis of almost 40 years’. Then we're about back in time to my childhood and what I was talking about, nostalgia. The right has a strong focus on facilitating good profitability and recruitment for agriculture. We want to facilitate the return of the full-time farmer through, among other things. resolving regulation and production restrictions. Unfortunately, we experience more and more that poor profitability in agriculture leads to many giving up and finding other jobs. There is every reason to believe that with today's policy, this development will continue in the coming years as well. Today’s policy course is an impoverishment strategy — where the last person has to turn off the light afterwards. Agriculture is in strong transition, without Norwegian agricultural policy having particularly focused on what the future agriculture will look like. There is a great contrast between the Government's objective of maintaining the current usage structure and the speech of the figures. We see that from 1996 to 2006, the number of use has decreased by about 35 pst, and the number of annual work has decreased by more than 25 pst. At the same time, the number of combined use has increased from 146 use in 1995 to 1,756 use in 2006. Despite this negative development, the Minister of Agriculture and Food rejects the proposal of the Right on an agricultural message. The right considers that the policy should be designed to allow milk producers to make a good transition, both for those leaving the industry and for those investing large amounts in future-oriented milk production. The right has noticed that farmers who want to join forces have been denied this in several places because of too strict restrictions. We therefore want to have a broad review of agricultural policy through a big message in order to make industry more forward-looking and robust in relation to the challenges ahead. The right considers that there is a need to create a flat support rate system per year. litres of milk produced, so that the discrimination between small and large uses becomes less than at present. This will provide better framework conditions for investments in forward-looking modes of operation, greater use will be more profitable and it will be possible to return to the full-time farm. The right-hand selection of district policies concluded, inter alia: the need to remove the ceiling on the number of participants in joint ventures and to soften the distance and volume limits. It is the individual farmer, and not the authorities, who is best placed to determine how operations should be arranged in order to obtain the highest possible return on each individual use. There is also an international trend, which will have a significant impact on the development of Norwegian agricultural policy in the future. Negotiations have been ongoing in the World Trade Organisation for a long time without one having succeeded in reaching a new agreement on the regulation of world trade in agricultural products. A new WTO agreement will have a strong impact on Norwegian agricultural policy, including: by cutting customs protection. It is therefore important that Norway is prepared and in advance of this development, so that we can develop, in good time before an agreement enters into force, instruments that ensure Norwegian agriculture in a new competitive everyday life. This work must be started soon, as it will take time to change the instrument. The right considers that the shortest possible distance between primary producer and consumer is important. We see a change in the consumer pattern in food products, and we experience an increase in imports of agricultural products. The right considers that competition and consumer policy are an important part of agricultural policy. At the same time, in order to ensure greater integration of Norwegian agricultural products, it is important that agriculture has a consumer-friendly policy. [[President clubs]] I find it regrettable that the government parties do not share our view that there is a need for innovation and that there must be more forward-looking thinking in Norwegian agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1953	The President requests that the speaking time be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1956	Agriculture is the backbone of Bygde-Noreg. An active agriculture is crucial to ensure employment and composition throughout the country. Agriculture is also a guarantor of a living cultural landscape. For this reason, we need to facilitate a varied use structure that takes into account both traditional family use and opportunities for different forms of cooperation. The proposal for a forward-looking agricultural policy is based on the objectives of having a strong agricultural sector to help us achieve the objective of production, food security, housing and good cultural landscapes. That's good. But when the proposers want a full review of Norwegian agricultural policy through a new big message, the Christian People's Party is not in agreement. On a number of other points, the Christian People's Party disagrees with the proposers. It is true that in recent times it has been an increase in world prices for some agricultural products. Demand has increased from country to country in strong economic growth and due to global population growth. However, it is still too early to say something certain about the long-term impact this will have on Norwegian agriculture. Nor can we change the outcome of the current WTO negotiations. The objective must now be to obtain the best possible result to ensure both Norwegian agriculture and Norwegian export interests. The Christian People's Party will not change the system of agricultural agreements. Today’s system has a broad upturn in industry and is less bureaucratic than the one we find in the EU. Nor can the Christian People's Party see the need to change market arrangements, ownership or land policy. When it concerns the growth in the number of cooperatives and other cooperation between farmers, it is positive. The government should facilitate this development. There will be more organised employment, and there will be more efficient initial investment. At the same time, it is important to stress that the framework conditions for district and minor use still need to be the best possible. It is important to maintain the principle of income equalisation both between districts and between different sizes. I am pleased that there is broad agreement that competition and consumer policy are an important part of agricultural policy. Development of niche products based on local food traditions is an important part of such a consumer-righted policy. This will give customers something they ask for, and it can increase the income of the farmers and thus be an important complement to production. Nor can we escape the challenges of climate change in this debate. The UN Climate Panel has confirmed that global warming with all probability has caused man-made CO2 emissions. At worst, one third of the earth’s animal and plant species can be eradicated and global agricultural production significantly reduced. The Christian People's Party wants Norway to be a leading country in environmental policy. In order for future generations to have a good living environment, clean drinking water sources and good natural experiences, climate and environment concerns must be decisive for how we manage soil resources. The current agricultural policy is largely based on St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, Norwegian agriculture and food production. The Christian People's Party cannot see that there has been such a change in agriculture or in the industry framework that a new big message should be needed now. We therefore reject the proposal made by the proposers at this point. However, it may be useful to assess the possible impact of international developments on Norwegian agriculture. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal from the Government Party that, in the context of the 2008 Landfill Proposition on the Agricultural Agreement, the Government will provide an analysis of developments in the global food market and possible consequences for Norwegian agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-22.ana.ud966e1987	The regulatory time for tomorrow's meeting is up. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
