ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e46	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. From the representative Heikki Holmås there is an application for leave from 7 December to 12 December to attend meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The representative of the commodity, Ingunn Gjerstad, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e71	Ingunn Gjerstad is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e89	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e100	Let me start by correcting a minor error in the setting. This applies to II on page 88, Chapter 1427. It shall read ‘item 21’, not ‘item 1’ as referred to in the setting. I would also like to mention the proposals on which the Left is a co-rapporteur. Today’s government has promised Norway to be a leading country in environmental work, and we will be a leading country in meeting climate challenges. This ambition has not met either in the climate announcement that the Government made this summer, or in the budget that we have to deal with today. There is no new course, not one power cap that is adapted to the challenges you face. On the contrary, we have a weak environmental budget where the Ministry of the Environment is once again a budget paper. This has been tried by the Government to decorate by providing a comprehensive overview of all departments and where one shows measures that are supposed to have an environmental impact. In total, one then comes into budget lines of 24 billion kroner. It is striking that this calculation includes one third of the Ministry of Agriculture's budget, NOK 4.6 billion. It thus receives much more weight than the Ministry of the Environment’s budget of SEK 3.1 billion. There is therefore good reason to revise the way an attempt is made to make the environmental effort of the Government visible across the ministries. The production provided in the budget of the year is not a good production. It is not just the Left who is dissatisfied with the government's work on climate and environmental issues. 70 pst. by the voters have replied that they also do not think that the government is doing enough in connection with the climate turmoil. It is a great wish and a great expectation of political leadership in these important areas that voters so far do not feel that the Government has taken care of. I hope that the pressure that is now on political leadership will lead to political agreement on a climate settlement. It is absolutely necessary, and it must be based on a much more ambitious approach than the one contained in the climate communication. The backstop for Norway when going to the Bali negotiations is that one at home enters 2008 with record high greenhouse gas emissions. Two new major emission sources, the gas power plant on Kårstø, which is not cleaned, and the Melkøya plant in Finnmark, contribute to making a stressful situation even worse. Both of these projects, both Kårstø and Melkøya, are more than anything driven by the Workers' Party and Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. He was the one who made it his political turn to cut down the center government, because he insisted that the gas power plant at Kårstø should be built without cleaning. Then I expect the Government, led by the same Prime Minister, to contribute to a climate settlement that can reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, so that one does not have great ambitions in international work and no national will to be a leading country. In this picture, it is also quite incomprehensible that the budget is spending as little on environmental research and climate research as it is charged to. It is quite incomprehensible when one is faced with the challenges that we have, that one also has a break in this area. It has long been announced by the Government that one has great ambitions in terms of renewable energy. The actual ratio is that one per cent. the current date has one of the worst support systems in Europe. This means that, in addition to exporting fossil energy sources, we export good renewable energy projects. There's an entirely unsustainable situation, and here there's a need to do something drastic. That is why, on repeated occasions, the opposition has called for a reopening of negotiations with Sweden on green certificates, because we are fully convinced that the green certification market is much better suited to triggering a large potential in terms of renewable energy production than the support scheme put on the table by the Government. A few minutes ago, we were informed by the government council Haga that the government has now resumed negotiations with Sweden on a green certificate scheme. It's positive. It is the result that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have this as one of their demands in the point list that has been handed over to the Government. The fact that the change has occurred in the last few days is quite obvious, because the position being taken today shows that the government parties have voted against the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to resume negotiations with Sweden. But it's positive that this is happening now. One must only hope that the Government, which did not succeed when it negotiated with a social-democratic government, will succeed in negotiating with a bourgeois government in Sweden, under the pressure of the bourgeois opposition on the Stortinget. But it remains to be seen, and it remains to be seen whether the government will give a different priority now than when they turned the thumb down for a green certificate market for a few years ago. In its alternative state budget, the Left has strengthened the environmental effort by DKK 1.8 billion. In addition, there was a strong tax shift from red to green taxes, where one stimulates environmentally sound behaviour and increases the burden of resource depletion. This tax change we believe is an important part of an environmental offensive, and we hope that in turn we will receive the support of other parties to this approach to environmental policy. With regard to the Ministry of the Environment’s budget, the Left increases this by 317 million. kr. One main component is grants to climate municipalities of 200 million. kr, because we want to have some municipalities that may appear to be pre-municipalities, where, in cooperation with business, the citizens are radically looking to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and appear environmentally friendly. In addition, we are spending more than the Government on forest protection, on gyro control and on outdoor measures, and we are also spending more money both on cultural memories through the budget of the Riksantikvaren and on strengthening the Cultural Memory Fund. It is also important to have more resources to clean up fjords and lakes. Here, there is a great disparity between the need that exists and the means that are made available by the Government. This is also part of the background to the opposition's proposal asking for a plan for the work to be done in this area. Our environmental effort is also reflected in the research budget, in the field of oil protection and in the transport budget, where we together spend 850 million. kr more for public transport than provided by the Government. When we had the management plan for the northern areas for treatment in Stortinget, the government promised that it would be systematically invested in environmental monitoring in the northern regions. What we now experience is that a rate of significantly more resources on seismic surveys than on environmental studies. It implies that there is a disproportionate situation in which one has failed to do the necessary environmental monitoring work when one is due to revise the management plan in 2010. Against this background, the Left puts more money in its alternative budget for environmental monitoring and monitoring in the northern regions. It is striking at a time when one says that one will invest more in renewable energy, that the government is adding up to increased taxation of small power plants. These reactions have been unique from all those parts of the country where this is a great opportunity. I am incomprehensible that you have got the Senterpartie with you on this. This is poor rural policy, it is poor energy policy, and it weakens the nutritional basis of many of those who could have had income from small power generation. In its alternative state budget, the Left also adds that one should be able to spend more money on pilot projects in immature areas of renewable energy production, such as marine mills, which I believe have a great potential. Climate policy has shown that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are more ambitious than the Government. It is also reflected in budgetary work. The right, Christian People's Party and the left have a different pressure on renewable energy. We want a pilot project to clean up Kårstø. We are promoting proposals for a depreciation scheme that will stimulate environmentally friendly procurement, and we have wanted an action plan for fjord remediation. In this picture, it is also true that of the parties that are more offensive than the Government, the Left is the party which in its budget allocates the most funds to the environment, both directly through the Ministry of the Environment's budget and indirectly through other budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e138	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e143	I think it's a great and affordable commitment the representative Kvassheim also shows up on environmental and energy issues. I think it might be nice to philosophize a little bit in the future. We all know the environmental budget of the Progress Party – or lack of such. If you look forward to the 2009 elections, it is likely that the alternative to the current government is a bourgeois government where the Progress Party is involved. Will Gunnar Kvassheim feel more comfortable having Siv Jensen on the team in 2009 in environmental policy than today's government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e150	The answer to that question is that in climate and environmental issues there is a high distance between the Left and the Advance Party. That's one of the reasons we've made it clear that we're not going to be able to sit together in government, and that's one of the reasons why when we're negotiating climate issues on Stortinget, the Progress Party isn't there. When the Left was in government with the Christian People's Party and the Right, we developed an ambitious environmental policy that resulted in the protection of the area in Norway being extended by 50 pst. We got 50 new watercourses protected, and we took important steps in climate policy. We did that by looking for support, for example. at the SV of the Stortinget and in some questions at the Workers' Party. But we often experienced that both the Workers' Party and the Advance Party were difficult to deal with on environmental issues, so that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left had to find a majority with SV. The same will also have to be done by a minority government in the future: an alliance must be sought by those who are closest to the issues in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e157	Few parties, if anything, have gone from being so defensive in that policy that one leads to climate in government, to being as offensive in climate rhetoric as the Left Party. So the representative of Kvassheim's party was in a government that, unlike today's government, did not go into handling CO2 on Kårstø and Mongstad, which did not lift a finger for a more environmentally friendly CO2 handling on Melkøya. That's why the Left also has a great share of responsibility for what's happening there. I have two questions: will the environmental rhetoric that the Left is now leading give rise to political solutions if the Left comes back to government? So I'm afraid to ask, what kind of climate action is the Kvassheim representative most proud of the fact that the Left got an impact on the government they put in in the previous period?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e172	With regard to the effort in the last period, it is well described in our government's summary document, and it goes on a broad spectrum. Climate action was taken, including: agreements with industry, which significantly reduced emissions. The measures taken resulted in emissions of 10 pst. less than they would otherwise have been. In the area of collective policy, we got a whole new drive when it came to collective policy in metropolitan areas, with an incentivisation for public transport. We were the first government to spend money on a large fund – that's billions of money – to research and develop CO2 clean-up plants. Work was also in progress with the Kårstø plant. With regard to the responsibility for the Kårstø plant, it is now time that the Centre Party and the Left were put together in a minority government that was thrown into the Kårstø case, because we did not want to build gas power plants without cleaning. We were in the previous government preparing to cooperate with the industry in order to obtain a cleaning solution at that plant.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e182	I am registering a history description in which I am not completely familiar. The representative Kvassheim mentions a number of good environmental and energy proposals that the Progress Party has also been involved in, but which, in his suggestion, the Progress Party is incidentally excluded from. When we talk about the Progress Party making it impossible for the Left to pursue a good environmental policy in the government, I think back to 2002 when the previous climate agreement was concluded. This is not the first time you've negotiated climate settlements. This was also the case in May 2002. So then the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the SV, the four parties that view themselves as the most offensive in this area, agreed on a climate agreement. When I look at what was then adopted, I don't recognize any of it in the rhetoric that is now going on. There is no reference to how good one was in 2002 when one is now showing that one in 2007 should be the best. Can the representative Kvassheim remind me of some of the highlights of the previous climate deal?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e189	When we are going to make a climate settlement – if we succeed – for the coming years, there is no history description from 2002. But I can repeat a little of what I said to the representative Sande about what the previous government did when it came to climate policy. One received, among others: an agreement with the industry which has led to significant reductions. One did preparatory work with respect to the allowance system, to get it up to go. One made a massive effort on public transport, etc. The sum of the measures taken is that emissions are significantly lower than they would otherwise have been. A massive effort was also undertaken to develop CO2 treatment via the pooling of funds in the billion class. I definitely recognize that work. But it is also possible to create a long list, for example. above protection issues, where the distance between the Propulsion Party and the Left is high in terms of both watercourse and area protection. One of the reasons we can't have a cooperation in government is that there's too much in environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e201	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e205	The main challenge of our time is global climate change. All countries need to contribute to reducing emissions in order to limit anthropogenic climate change. We are one of the richest countries in the world, and we are a formidable producer and exporter of fossil fuels. This obliges far beyond normal. The Ministry of the Environment's budget is not by itself the largest, but the climate and environmental profile is pervasive in all the budgetary areas that we are dealing with now in the autumn. This makes the overall environmental profile good. We have to think environment in absolute everything we do, That is why we continue to convert taxes from red to green, because we are placing a lot of money on developing carbon capture technologies, because we are spending a great deal on new renewable energy, because we are building up the collective offer in a large scale, because we are introducing the climate quota promise, because we have a government that prioritises the environment. Will also bet on gas power plants with CO2 handling. Mongstad and Kårstø are in the loop here. We are now putting together over NOK 1 billion for CO2 management and environmentally friendly gas technology. This is a historic bet, a marked line change in Norwegian policy with this government. This money is mainly used for full-scale cleaning of the gas power plants in Mongstad and Kårstø. At Kårstø, we're adding up to $165 million. kr next year, and at Mongstad 400 mill. kr. We now also know the progress plan for Kårstø, and we will have it in place in 2011-2012. Our goal is to be world leaders in the development of future profitable carbon capture technology. This is a race that is global. We can't let that frighten us. We have to be part of this race – it needs the environment. We are also investing in renewable energy, and that is why we are now going into Enova – with up to SEK 1 1/2 billion – a formidable increase from the previous year. Now it is also announced that we will resume negotiations with Sweden on the green certificates. All of this we are doing to achieve our goal of 12 TWh new renewable energy in 2010, and the further goal in the future. If we are to succeed in reconciling climate and energy policies, we must strengthen our common knowledge in both areas. Environmental policy must be based on good and up-to-date knowledge. This is important both in the interests of environmental monitoring and in the interests of concrete policy-making. The draft budget provides for a total of DKK 1.5 billion to be spent on research and development in the budget area of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. This money is distributed in different areas, such as developing CO2 management technologies, transport, storage, etc. We can't get past the fact that knowledge and technology development goes hand in hand. We have to be a leading knowledge nation, and we have a lot to gain experience from in terms of our offshore industry. A natural extension of our knowledge within offshore is the government's announced investment in offshore wind turbines. Enova has entered StatoilHydro with 59 million. kr for the development of, inter alia, their offshore wind power project Hywind, which is now to be established outside Karmøy in Rogaland. We also see in the last report from Statkraft that they are also betting on sea wind turbines where Norwegian research is being carried out. The future prospects in this area are exciting and promising, and it will mean a lot for Norwegian industry and the development of Norwegian society if we seize the chance now, as the Government is now adding. We are also following up the merger between Statoil and the oil-gas division of Hydro. When we dealt with this merger, we all agreed that there had to be supervisory bodies, among other things. be strengthened. Now we're doing that by going in with a higher investment within the Oil and Energy Department, the Oil Directorate and Petoro, with over 50 million. kr. It will also strengthen the SFT, so that the decisions we made in the big merger are followed up. It will benefit Norwegian environment and Norwegian industry. The North is and will be a central area for our future policy, both in terms of environmental and climate policy and our future petroleum strategy. We've been aiming to be the world's foremost in environmentally friendly technology, environmental monitoring and oil protection in these sensitive areas of the north. We've noticed in the last few days the large emissions coming from the Melkoya plant. This is very worrying, and here the company needs to sort things out as soon as possible, our climate policy must be a believer. The facilities in these areas must be at the forefront of both technological and environmental developments. We can't stand experiments in these sensitive areas. We need to know what we're doing, and we need to be sure of what we're doing! We must also participate in the development of petroleum activities in the northern regions in cooperation with Russia. Norway has a lot to offer in future cooperation with our Russian neighbours, not least in environmental and safety areas. We must be the pre-mistake provider in the development of the northern regions, so that all activity in the area is distinct within a safe and environmentally sound framework. For this reason, it is important to ensure long-term cooperation between us and the Russian authorities. Our government is also proposing to double the investment in geological mapping and knowledge acquisition in Northland VII and Troms II within the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. This is a follow-up to the management plan. This knowledge acquisition is central to the roll-out of the plan to be carried out in 2010. Finally, I would like to underline the Government's efforts to secure the broad public ownership of the hydropower resources. The production and distribution of energy from hydropower shall be publicly owned as far as possible. The provisional arrangement of August of this year is based on the fact that, among others: wish to further explore a model for regulating ownership of hydropower resources that goes under the name of the consolidation model. Our government has followed up its election promises. We have guaranteed the community ownership of our hydropower resources. We are proud of this!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e277	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e280	It's almost touching to hear all the self-esteem from the representative Nordtun. Before this debate, I sat down and read the debate from the previous budgetary procedure. Then we heard exactly the same words, that this government had a historic stake in CO2 cleaning on Kårstø. They indicated that it was granted 720 million. kr. The representative of Nordtun did not say that almost all the money was withdrawn from the revised national budget. In the previous round, Nordtun promised that the CO2 cleaning plant at Kårstø would be finished in 2009. Now it's 2011–2012, but it's still a historic bet. Actually, it's a historical withdrawal. Nevertheless, what is an interesting point of view on the part of the Workers' Party concerns the force situation in Central Norway. The leader of the LO said yesterday at the December conference that only an expansion of gas power plants in central Norway can save the power situation. Will the Workers' Party accept the construction of gas power plants in central Norway without CO2 cleaning from day one, because that's the only way to get it in place over the next five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e303	I am a little surprised by the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen when he hassles with historical commitment. Then I suspect Solvik-Olsen that he reads what he wants to read. I want to ask Solvik-Olsen to document what budget is behind us that has shown the same figures in CO2 management and bet on capture of CO2. There are no other budgets that have been so committed! That we had to return a little bit in the revised national budget last year, yes, that's because we weren't in place with all the techniques, which we still aren't, but we're doing our best to achieve our goals in this area. So the power situation in Middle Norway. I share Ketil Solvik-Olsen's concern for it. But the government has taken this very seriously, and the opposition has been involved. We're going to try to facilitate new production in this area. We also have to bring force into the area. It's not just turning on a switch, it's in place. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e316	It's too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e319	The Energy and Environment Party spokesperson was broadly satisfied in his statement and pointed to the need to invest even more in so-called green taxes. In fact, two years ago, when the Norwegian industry, transport, fisheries, coastal shipping and the NOx tax, were introduced, the government promised the parties that a dialogue would be set up so that the collected money could go back to an environmental fund for the development of new technologies that could solve the NOx environmental challenge. Is the representative of Nordtun equally satisfied that, despite these promises, the Government has not yet provided robust solutions to help put in place a NOx environmental fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e335	The conversion of taxes into green taxes is very important. I'm not going to refer now to all the areas that we've been addressing, for example. Cars and others I would like to remind the representative of Kristiansen to right among others. have been involved in signing the Gothenburg Protocol, which addresses emissions other than CO2. Among other things, there are: NOx inside. Work is now in progress to put in place how to deal with NOx in connection with fishing fleets and coastal shipping. We see that there are great challenges to this fleet, and we have to make a scheme here that is to live with for this industry, to use that term. It's taken time, and we should have it in port now, but it's working hard on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e351	The representative of Nordtun spoke a lot about bold objectives in environmental policy, and the government has had that in some areas. This is characterised throughout by the failure to meet the targets set, for example at Kårstø, where cleaning was promised in 2009. Now we know that there's nothing going to be done, and that's how it shows up in the area by area. One of the last areas is the reduction of noise pollution. It says in the Soria Moria statement that you have to reduce the noise pollution by 25 pst. by 2010. Now it says in the budget that the government is adding up to reduce the noise by 10 pst. by 2020, and they even say that the Storting has adopted this, which is wrong. It is the Government's ambition that has changed. My question is: is it the quality assurance of the environmental promises on Soria Moria that is too poor or is this too low a priority? Or is it a combination of both?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e360	I think it is right to have bold objectives in the field of environmental policy. I'm not ashamed of it. But there must also be realism in our goals. I fully agree with Mr Kvassheim. But when we look at the global perspectives we're facing, and the challenges we're facing on the environment, I would have hoped that all nations had the same bold goals as Norway and the sitting government have. So to the question of noise, and what's done in this area. It is clear that a number of new industrial establishments have emerged, and a new social structure has emerged in many ways, so here we have to correct what is realism in our noise objectives. But if we now look at how we set up the infrastructure, among other things. through the announced law – inter alia: through the Planning and Building Act – it is precisely in areas where we are going to incorporate the environment, and noise is part of it, that we need to put this in a better way, so that people can live side by side without harming it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e367	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e370	The government's oil, energy and environmental policies are characterised by logical flaws and conflicts. The Committee has witnessed many speeches – we received the last one recently – but there has been little concrete follow-up. That is unfortunately still the case. Overall, there is little excitement in the budget. On the other hand, the Progress Party makes some important changes in order to launch a clearer and more offensive course. We're betting on petroleum and energy research to a much greater extent than the government, and we want to set up a research fund. We want to earmark research around thorium to find long-term energy solutions. We want increased use of Norwegian natural gas domestically and clarified framework conditions. We want to invest in renewable energy by developing green certificates, where fortunately the government is now starting to look after the opposition. We also want to improve the temporary aid scheme presented by the Government. We want realistic and sensible measures to reduce CO2 emissions rather than high ambitions and symbolism measures. We want to fight for measures to improve conditions for the wild. And we want great improvements in the trash disposal system. I would like to remind the representative Nordtun that the budget on the environmental side of the Progress Party is, plus/minus, a couple of hundred thousand dollars, as large as the Labour Party. So if there's $200,000 or a little million that's the difference, it's not much until the Workers' Party also goes into the trap. In this article, I will take some of the most important areas of petroleum, energy and climate, because I would like to remind you that the committee is working on all three areas, and not just on the climate issue right now. Much of the environmental policy for the Progress Party will be delivered in the article from Tord Lien, and the energy initiative in the post from Torbjørn Andersen. But so important, before I go into dollars and cents, are the system choices and principles underlying the policy. It is regrettable that the government does not have the ability to strike out a clearer direction. In many areas, there are still more questions than answers. The government's policy is mildly mobile, just like the gas power plants they order. We also see that with the green certificates today, where just a few weeks ago you refused that there had ever been negotiations with the Swedes, and showed that the government's policy would be firm. I therefore challenge the state councils in today's debate to provide clarifications that provide predictability for Norwegian business and Norwegian consumers. What is the current framework conditions for gas power plants? Will Industriekraft Møre receive a concession and an emission permit for its project? Will Hammerfest Energy be granted a concession and an emission permit for its CO2-free gas project? What are the criteria for the allocation of CO2 allowances to gas power plants? It could be good for the foresters to know. What is the status in the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of The impression is that this has been sorted out. It's not the impression the industry has. When does the industrial power regime actually come? The Minister of Industry said in the Question Time on 16 May this year that he saw the promise of an industrial power regime as fulfilled. On the other hand, the Prime Minister said a week later that he had never promised cheap power to the Norwegian industry. We know that there is no industrial power regime yet. What is the Government's renewable action plan? Is it a quadruple message, which is constantly changing? Is there a level of aid to be revised while everything is waiting? Or are the green certificates? What is the Government's climate policy? A comprehensive document was presented before the summer, but it has been revised weekly by various government councils and red-green politicians, not least with calls for assistance from the opposition. What are the criteria for the allocation of CO2 allowances to industry? If a whole plan is submitted, or this becomes a matter where you take one and a company as it is mentioned in the media, see. Yara's ammonia factory in Porsground. The petroleum industry is very important for Norway. The last ten years of wealth and value creation have been heavily dependent on the good petroleum industry. We must facilitate it in the future, not least in order to reduce the political uncertainty that has arisen. Industrial developments are a cause for concern. There is a decreasing business on oil, although reasonably good on gas, but there are few new findings of importance. It represents a lower activity in the future. Monitoring of the northern regions shows that the words coming are offensive, but implementation is poor. So far, half of the survey was funded, despite the fact that the red-green parties said that they should have carried out this survey before they were well halfway around the process. Now we're halfway through 2010. I want the Council of State to confirm that the revision of the management plan will not be delayed, even if the Government has underfunded the work in progress. In the case of petroleum industry research, there is also cause for concern. Compared to the resources taken out of industry and industry by the State, much more attention should be paid to contributing to research. When you talk all the time about increasing the extraction rate, the state must also take its responsibility for funding this. StatoilHydro fusion and Norwegian oil policy should really be the subject of long discussions in this debate, especially in the light of the position of the Minister of Oil and Energy on Troll Development. I will leave that theme for this time, because it will come as an interpellation on the New Year from the undersigned. So to the energy situation in Norway. We have all the prerequisites for success as an energy nation. We produce approx. Ten times more energy than we use ourselves. The only thing missing is a good national policy. You see yourself blind to long-term visions, but you forget that today's challenges have to be solved with today's technology. As a result, the balance of forces has gradually deteriorated. Little has been done to clarify the framework conditions the industry has to deal with, but the more to come up with the big visions that the power industry can enjoy. The power crisis in Central Norway actually illustrates everything that is wrong with Norwegian energy policy, and insofar as the lack of reality in Norwegian policy. Everyone agrees that something needs to be done. It confirmed at the latest the representative of Nordtun in its statement. At the same time, no new measures have come from this government. Some measures are being taken on the website, but none of them have been implemented after the government change. Statnett can confirm that all the projects they are now carrying out were on the drawing board of the Bondevik Government and would in any case have had the progress they have today. The only original red-green measure you can refer to is the purchase of mobile gas plants. It was not planned when the Bondevik administration left. So we know that Industriekraft Møre has had a concession request in a long time. It has not been completed. The tent credit has a concession for gas power plants, but has not been granted an emission permit. Forests have a concession and emission permit, but when the climate allowance law was discussed in June, there was considerable uncertainty as to whether they would receive free allowances. It refused to clarify the environmental protection minister Bjørnøy at the time. The government should have taken that seriously and done something about it. Renewal policy is worth an effort on its own. The representative Torbjørn Andersen will take that up. Rarely has the government shown greater differences in rhetoric and practical policy than in this particular area. As regards natural gas bets, everyone has agreed that there is something to bet on. With a button force balance, the use of gas will contribute to better supply. Every time we sell gas to the rest of the world, it's something we're proud of. The Prime Minister travels both to Germany and to England and promotes gas supplies, yes, even the king travelled to Germany and opened up gas power stations. But when the Minister of Oil and Energy is asked if she wants similar gas power plants in Norway, the answer is no. It was very clear at the conference of the Land Association of the Oil Industry. I was quite happy when I heard Minister Andersen during the opening of Kårstø gas power station on 1 November. He said this was a new chapter in Norwegian industrial history, and that the modern gas power plant at Kårstø was a step in the right environmental direction, because the alternative to gas power is coal power, which pollutes more. That logic I have several times tried to get the Minister of Oil and Energy Haga to confirm. I haven't made that clear. That explains why the Government does not provide good framework conditions for gas power plants. As far as gas power is concerned, once again, I would like to commend the government's handling of Mongstad. To be honest, I had not believed that the government would so clearly turn on its principles and allow gas power without cleaning from day one. In doing so, they ensured that the correct opinion of the bulk of the population – the Right, the Advance Party and the Workers’ Party – was implemented. But it is especially funny in retrospect to record that especially SV people are trying to rewrite the story and say that the government never demanded CO2 cleaning from day one. It's just to look at some newspapers from September 2006, you see a lot of confirmations that you did that. It is sad to hear, however, that the new oil and energy minister, Haga, now yet again requires that there should be CO2 cleaning from start-up for all other new concessions, including in Middle Norway. Then, in reality, the government is positioning itself for another internal battle and another round of retreat from chance to chance, because finally, the power situation in Middle Norway has to be settled. I remember what LO leader Roar Flåthen said at the December conference in central Norway this week: ‘Only an expansion of gas power stations in Freina, Tjeldbergodden and Skogn can allow Middle Norway to become self-sufficient in energy.’ So LO is the Government's largest partner. On the CO2 management page, I expect that the Progress Party will receive criticism that we do not want to give money to Kårstø. I would remind you that the Progress Party supports good CO2 clean-up projects. We support Mongstad. But we do not support bad projects. Kårstø is not a project where you develop new technology. I remember what the then State Council of Enoksen said at Stortinget on 18 October 2006: ‘On Kårstø, the Government takes full responsibility based on today’s expensive technology, which is a technology that will be used only in very few cases.’ [[...]] Therefore, we cut the allocation to Kårstø and use the money to develop new forms of energy that are good, including thorium. I encourage everyone to join and fund a research at thorium, and I look forward to the setting of the thorium committee when it comes. In doing so, I will address the proposals on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e446	The proposals to which Mr Solvik-Olsen referred have been addressed. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e451	It is interesting, but very demanding to follow in the Progress Party's environmental and climate policy. In dealing with the climate quota law in Stortinget this summer, it was found that the Progress Party did not agree with the rest of the Stortinget that global warming is the biggest environmental problem of our time. In the post that Solvik-Olsen made today, there was little clarification on the environmental policy of the Progress Party. I would therefore like to ask the main figures of the Progress Party to explain what a global environmental problem is more challenging than the climate problem. Or has the Progress Party now changed its mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e458	The questionnaire we had last year was about whether the climate problems were the biggest challenge the world had. I then said, as I say now, that I won't rank the problems. When you think about hunger disasters, when you think about water shortages and desertification, when you think about AIDS epidemic, I don't want to say that one is worse than the other, because all the problems have to be dealt with. The Progress Party, through its proposal that was promoted at Stortinget at the end of May/beginning of June this year, on how we want to reduce CO2 emissions, has shown that we are taking the problem seriously. The question is: what do we have to say in order for the Workers' Party finally to understand that the Progress Party has made a proposal in which we have comprehensive measures both nationally and internationally to reduce CO2 emissions, to focus on research and to work on a new international agreement? The fact that we don't participate in the shoutout, as some other parties do, as well as trying to highlight themselves as the ones that are most concerned, is not relevant to whether you have the good solutions to actually do something about the challenges. These solutions have the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e471	It has been a revolution in KrF – I'm sorry, FrP – saying attitude to climate issues. Instead of hustle and bustle with the UN's climate panel and talk about climate hysteria, now stick to the grips and realities of the other parties in climate policy. I find reason to ask, just for the clarification of its part: Is it now that the Progress Party has confidence in the research that the United Nations Climate Panel stands for and shows that human activity and emissions have consequences that affect our climate? And, if yes to that question, does the Progress Party agree that there is a need to reduce CO2 emissions, and that it is right that Norway should take its share of the responsibility that one has globally?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e481	It's possible I look awkward, but not all the puns need to be KRFs. I'm glad that we've had a fresh breath into the committee, one that can see what the parties actually say, and what they actually stand for, as the representative Sande here does, instead, as we see from the Workers' Party and SV, to stick to old prejudices that they themselves have built up about the Progress Party. Yes, the Progress Party reads and closely follows up on the research done in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. There's a lot of good scientists in there. But there are also many skilled scientists who don't necessarily fully agree, and who also like to have other theories about what's causing them – let's say – the funny weather phenomena we're experiencing now. We are going to take seriously the warnings that come from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, and the Progress Party has put forward a policy here in which we say that we should be leading where, we should be involved and contribute to significant CO2 reductions. But we're going to do it in a sensible way, ensuring Norwegian business and making sure that the money is spent best, on the big projects, using the ones where you get the most benefit. But we will also dare to ask questions in the future: Is everything that is said, necessarily correct? Are all the other theories automatically wrong, just because the Intergovernmental Panel does not support them?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e495	In the alternative state budget of the Progress Party, it is cut in transfers to the Energy Fund, to CO2 management and to the Norwegian Research Council with dramatic 889 million. kr. The Progress Party points out that instead they want a fund of DKK 10 billion, where the return is to be used for these purposes. It raises a number of issues. Firstly, the return on such a fund will not come until 2009, so they will also be fully affected from 2008. Secondly, the return on such a fund will be only about 450 million. kr. So we're talking about a cut of approx. One and a half billion kroner. My question is therefore: can the representative of the Progress Party confirm that the party in its alternative state budget cuts in the items with a total of 889 million. kr for 2008, and what are the reasons for these low levels of ambition in terms of new renewable energy, CO2 management and research and development in the petroleum sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e508	Here I think we see an example of workers' party politicians reading what they want to read and not seeing the whole. It is true that we cut in what the representative says, but we cut in petroleum research appropriations less than the yield from the fund would have been – ergo is in the long run a strengthening of the importance of petroleum research. In the case of the Energy Fund, we cut 200 million. NOK, simply because we see that there won't be projects that need that money, and then we can use it elsewhere. All wind power projects have been put on ice and small-scale power projects are ice-creamed by tax regulations. With our policies, it'll be 400 million. kr more already in 2009, which is not provided with the government's policy. In the case of Kårstø, it's a net cut, simply because we don't see the benefit of this. Kårstø requires a funding of NOK 17.5 billion if it is operating for 25 years. And NOK 17.5 billion – if you apply it to other environmental and climate action, you get much more benefit both nationally and internationally than the government adds. This has nothing to do with good use of resources from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e519	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e522	Let me start by recording the suggestion that the right has made in the setting. In reality, it's not, at least not when we look at the number columns, the big disagreement in terms of the allocation questions. I think that this debate is more marked by the fact that where the government parties are so clearly satisfied with the situation, we will find the angle on the opposition that we are far more impatient than the government parties are after getting on the table results. It is possible that this is the way it should be, but at least the time has come to come in a phase, when today's government is in three out of four years, moving further from goal to action. For it is urgent in the field of our political responsibilities to move into an action phase. That's where I think we have the greatest common challenges. Let me also just say that I am very happy that we have received the climate focus that we have in today's debate. I think the debate is very good. A few days before the Nobel Peace Prize will be awarded in Oslo, and in the middle of the Bali negotiations, it would be lacking that a nation that has set itself the goal of telling others how to solve the challenges should not have this as a red thread in today's budget debate. But I just have to point to some conditions while we have the climate as the red thread in the debate. Nor have we been able to solve the challenges at home. Norway would like to be adorned with good, robust plans, but we are in a situation where the world’s climate challenge has never been greater, nor the need for international interaction. There is no theme, there is no political area where it is more important that we be able to find together and operate in common than just within the climate challenges, and that is at a time when global climate emissions are increasing. For example, CO2 has increased three times faster since the year 2000 than in the 1990s. The same is true in Norway, where we have an emission situation that is – I should not say uncontrolled, but that requires action to reverse the curve even domestically. There is no doubt that Norway, if we see the total emissions that have a residence address in Norway, is actually one of the global climate hosts. We have to take that over. There's no doubt that most of the emissions we export beyond the border, and it's going to be other nations' table to handle this. But it just also illustrates that we have to be bold on these questions, we have to be able to outsource technologies and solutions where we can do a favor to the world. Then at least it's not the main right point that we're going to sit on the billboard when we discuss Kårstø or Mongstad. Of course, we're going to help get the solutions that need to be put in place. ESA notification helps to bring both Kårstø and Mongstad into place – legality is given to channel financial resources into place for these facilities, so that at least in the field of CO2 capture and storage, we may be able to do the world a great, great service. So to where we're impatient. I registered when we had the same budget debate two years ago, that representatives from the government parties and the then state councils, who have now been replaced, postulated that yes, the new government would do all the previous government did not. That was the main message. We're going to develop biogas in Norway, we're going to develop environmentally friendly gas and waterborne heat technologies – yes, they're just going to do everything that the previous government didn't do. We need to build clean gas power plants, that was the message. We're going to set up a green certification market. We're going to put in more wind, more hydro, more bio, more water-borne heat – yes, just much more renewable energy than the previous government was able to deliver. And we're going to put in place an industrial power regime that allows the Norwegian power-intensive industry to look brighter in the future than it had reason to do under the previous government. It's not like that. This is why it is also important in this area that we now get away from an objective phase and over in an action phase. Because there are actually deplorable results in these areas to which today's government has to refer, adorned in all its satisfaction. It can't be like that in the two years that this government probably has left of its reign. In this picture, we need to ensure that, while the news of the renegotiation with Sweden to set up a green certification system is being presented today, that we are working in parallel with this to get conditions for the production of new renewable energy that are not among the worst in Europe, which can prevent the relocation of the best forces, those with the best technology and the most intrusive. We must offer them conditions in Norway that are at least as good as those they choose to apply for abroad. For example, the State-owned company Statkraft, which finds the conditions outside its borders so much better and so much more attractive that they choose to invest quite significant energy, economy and power beyond its borders. We simply see that the best forces we have find abroad more attractive than at home. If we are to be able to bridge fossil-renewable societies, we must succeed at home on these issues before we take the road out into the big world and tell others how to succeed. We have simply been too bad in these areas. We see that the world's energy demand is increasing even more than previously estimated, and we know that fossil fuels will account for approx. 80 pst. of the increased demand for energy for the future. We have a population that is growing quite strongly, and there are crossing curves so far, which are not compatible, between fossil society and renewable society, which means that we also have to get a lot better at home on these issues. That is why we still have a long way to go, we need to improve and stimulate new renewable energy in Norway. We cannot operate with anti-stimulation policies, as today's government does, where the lowest fruits are hanging, cf. bets on micro, mini or small power plants, which are now being taxed for unprofitability. In fact, in this area, about the promises to create better arrangements and to get them in place, we have had two lost years in Norway. The new Minister for the Environment can no longer sit and watch as the NOx negotiations between industry and the state once again collapse. What kind of trust are those who are going to do the job and help to put new renewable energy in place, to Norwegian authorities, when you are told over and over again through the media that we will soon have a solution in place – and the other day, the actors decided to separate again, and the problem is unresolved. The Norwegian Treasury will continue to charge NOK 1.8 billion this year for the NOx fee. There's going to be lower profitability among the actors, and the environment is the big loser. Care must now be taken to deliver results in these areas in a way that is different from what you have been able to do so far. If we do not succeed in doing so, we cannot travel around the country and the beach and tell others that they must follow the Norwegian example.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e557	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e562	In view of what the Right got into the last period, the representative Kristiansen is not exactly a person whom I can refer to as a message on my own behalf. I want to be a little concrete and relate to what the Right has communicated in the budget position, because that's something I'm a little curious about. Right will have new power generation without new power lines, they will, among other things. have a gas power plant on the Tent Goods and there shall be a solution without new power lines. At the same time, they will have increased the deployment of the transmission system. Both domestic and foreign connections shall be strengthened. In addition, they will increase investments in the network, while electricity customers in Norway will have lower network rentals. I wonder if Kristiansen can clarify Right Double Communications, and would like to know if it is of a popular nature, or whether it is such that the Right Two Representatives of the Committee have not actually agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e568	This was one of the strangest forms of history I've heard so far in both the energy debate and the environmental debate. When the Right came into government in 2001, the first thing we did was to send the climate message to the then Stoltenberg government in return, because it was too upresis, it was too weak, it wasn't bold enough. We got a new message, with the permanent resistance of the Workers' Party, however, through cooperation with SV, which gave us national plans that led to Norwegian industry contributing solutions through voluntary agreements that enabled us today to be far more prepared for the Kyoto agreement, which enters into force on 1 January next year, than we would otherwise have been. In fact, during the last government period, climate change emissions in Norway decreased, CO2 emissions decreased.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e576	And then finally, I want to say, with a little help from, for example, SV led us to get a part of the emissions down. But the right now has a much more offensive attitude in terms of climate than before, and I have to say that it's a conservative party. Of course, we welcome this reverse operation in SV – we see it as nothing more than respect for much of what the Right now stands for. For history is dark, not least when it comes to the question of gas power. I want to get to grips with what was also taken up by the representative Nordtun in relation to the representative Kvassheim, because it is obvious that the left will stay as hard as they can if they are forced into cooperation with the Progress Party. But what does the Right want? Right is the climate companion now, but a ghastly story we can look back at. I wonder, since the Right is with the Advance Party in several notes in this setting, about oil exploration and gas power, among other things, whether the Right can guarantee that, if they cooperate with the Advance Party, they will ensure that money is spent on cleaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e583	Those who take the trouble to read the committee setting will see that SV is also with the Right and even the Progress Party on very many common comments that go on future research and development on Norwegian pedestal. I think that's very funny. I also think it's okay to be clear that we, as a large producer of gas and a world power within energy, are not bothering us to export gas or crude oil out of the country. I assume that the representative Thorkildsen also knows the benefits of using gas instead of alternatives that are much, much worse. I am very happy that we had a close and good cooperation with SV in the previous period. It might illustrate in this context, as in other contexts, that SV is actually the best in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e588	We note an outrage from the opposition, an outrage after realizing the Soria Moria statement from the Government and especially about issues that go on energy, the environment and the climate. That's good. My question to the Right is, and it becomes a follow-up question to the representative of Thorkildsen who asked: after that representative from the Right says about climate policy, is it now that we see a shift in the right's policy, and will the Right in the future seat as the head of any future gas power plant in Norway that there should be a CO2 management on those gas power plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e598	I think we should be very careful about anticipating events. We've been driving at all to put gas power plants in Norway, because we have a strong need to put energy solutions in place both in the region of the Sande representative, and in other areas where we have a rather brutal undercoverage. There's no line break, but the right is no static party. We are a dynamic party like most of the other parties here in this room, which takes account of developments, and with overwhelming evidence, we have shown that with regard to the climate issue, which Sande addresses here, we have chosen in many ways to be – if not in the driver's seat, we should at least sit in front of these questions. I think that's our history, cf. what former Environment Minister Brende took the initiative for five to six years back in time has shown that we are ready to participate in and develop this policy area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e603	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e606	That we humans have put ourselves in such a position that a minority of the world's population not only consumes most of the earth's resources, but has also put the very basis of life at risk – especially in that part of the world that has contributed nothing particularly to the problems – is not only deeply unfair but also immoral. This is the background for me getting involved in SV, and this is the background for us in SV fighting every single day to move Norwegian and international policies in a more solidarity, fair and environmentally friendly direction. I'm probably going to have the question of whether I think the government has done enough in the climate and the environment. To that I will answer no. No governments anywhere in the world have done enough. However, we have had important breakthroughs, and we are making a strong contribution to moving Norway in an environmentally friendly direction. However, I would like to stress that the major changes take place primarily in a community between governments and elected representatives who will, an opposition that pushes, and not least non-parliamentary movements and trade unions that ally with politicians who want to change. This is an example of the progress made in the field of renewables. It is essential that we put in place measures that work quickly if we are to avoid the really dramatic changes. Stop at the top of the rainforest is absolutely necessary, and it made the impression to hear the Brazilian Environment Minister, Marina Silva, here in Norway earlier this year. Yesterday, we could hear from the Day Revy that 60 pst. the rain forest of the Amazon is in danger. This is dramatic, more dramatic than I think we can imagine. Here, our own Minister for the Environment and Development has a strong commitment, and the Rainforest and Nature Conservation Fund have done a great job of raising the issue in the Norwegian public. The protection of rainforests also has a major impact on biodiversity and on the fight against poverty. Climate and environmental challenges are not only a threat to our existence, but they also give us enormous opportunities if we tackle the challenge wisely. The journal Arbeitsliv i Norden has estimated that the Nordic region can receive 425,000 new jobs as a result of investing in new renewable energy, research and education. According to Tekna, the environmental sector can grow to the same extent as the petroleum sector did in the 1970s and 1980s. SV regrets that emissions permits were granted to gas plants before our time. But we are proud that we were able to get through the demand for purification in the Soria Moria Declaration. We'll follow this up, and next year we'll spend almost $1 billion on cleaning at Kårstø and Mongstad. This is noted internationally. We spend up to NOK 4 billion on next year's budget for the purchase of climate allowances, because we have taken on higher commitments than we strictly have to under the Kyoto Protocol, and because that is necessary. As electricity prices rise across Europe over the new year, there is evidence that the introduction of a cost of CO2 emissions works. Because most energy sources and power sources in the rest of Europe are fossil, it helps to push electricity prices up. What is more right for us here in Norway than that we take a little bit of the price increase that people and businesses notice, and invest in new renewable energy? Our government has more than doubled the commitment to renewable energy. When we do that while we're increasing fuel oil charges by 40 cents, we're doing it economically for people to choose off polluting energy sources. We support people to become independent of polluting energy sources, such as oil fires, and to bet on more environmentally friendly heating. In addition, we're increasing diesel prices by 20 cents per cent. Liter next year because it's going to be more profitable to choose fuel-efficient cars, and we're strengthening assistance in the world. Among other things, we are strengthening the commitment to environmental assistance by 400 million. kr. The so-called Red List describes the challenge facing us in Norway in terms of loss of natural diversity. More than 1000 species are strongly or critically threatened. All 84 species have already been lost in the last 200 years. Three things are essential if we are to be able to stop the eradication of animals and plants: First, we need to know more about what is happening in Norwegian nature, and why species disappear. Secondly, we must take care of the areas that animals and plants need to survive. Third, we need to take better care of the areas we protect. With more resources for administration, we will be able to use protection for local development. Half of the Norwegian extermination threaten species live in forests. The scientists say we need to protect 4.6 pst. of the forest to take care of those species. We only have 1.4 pst. Our government has created 86 new areas of protection and extended twelve existing ones. But it's far from enough. We have a big job to do in the future, and we have ambitious goals in the Soria Moria statement. However, I am pleased that we in Stortinget now secure 7 million. kr extra to the Species database, 1 mill. SEK for the protection of mountain reefs, 3 million. kr to Ims and 2 mill. to the action plan on endangered species.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e638	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e641	When I hear the concern of the SV and the Workers' Party for the bourgeois government that is going to take hold in 2009, I find reason to point out some things. In the previous period, SV and the Workers' Party did not agree on a single petroleum policy position, the Advance Party and the Workers' Party agreed on a number of points. This year, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party have agreed on a number of things already, among others. as regards the Barents Sea Management Plan. So I want to reassure the representative of Thorkildsen that this is going to go very well. At the very end of his post, Thorkildsen's representative was involved in bio-diversity and loss of species. SV was previously known as a preliminary party to the conservation of wild salmon in Norway. I do not fully recognize that commitment in this year's budget. Could the representative Thorkildsen explain to me why there is reason to be satisfied with the Government's commitment to preserving the wild game in this year's budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e648	Firstly, I would say that it is not our goal that it should be a civil government after 2009. It is not the case that the bourgeois government should take hold in 2009, as the representative Tord Lien here suggests. I would also like to say that the other bourgeois parties will have a major challenge if they are to cooperate with the Progress Party in the coming years, in a way that is closer than what has happened so far. As I said, the Left is little interested in such cooperation. They have clearly expressed that. The Christian People's Party is not very enthusiastic either. I think it might be easier for the Right. But the Progress Party has used every opportunity to try to deny climate change, and at least that they are man-made. They cast doubt on it on every occasion. In the case of salmon, I will commend Tord Lien for his involvement in that field, unlike very many in his own party. I still think that we haven't done enough, but we've done a lot, and I'm glad we're also giving 3 million. kr extra to Ims.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e657	SV is often the party for the big, but maybe not completely concrete solutions. It is an obvious consequence of today's tabloid media society that conflict is often what attracts attention, and it also affects the environment and that kind of thing. We ensure more to the Art Database, said the representative of Thorkildsen, but it also becomes less protective. Forest protection is usually about the life base of individuals and individual communities in the more marginal areas of District Norway. It should then be an objective in itself to avoid the kind of uncertainty caused by the uncertainty surrounding the replacements. High ambitions for protection and low reserves to cover the cost of such protection thus promote uncertainty, and it harms in many ways the case SV says they stand for. Does SV see that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e665	Let me first say that I'm happy for that question. I must also say that the efforts of the Right of the representative Mr Børge Brende in his time as Minister for the Environment have been respected. This is an area with a high degree of conflict, where it is necessary that we also make an effort here in Norway and not just call for involvement and efforts from other countries. Then I'm going to contest the claim that there's going to be less money to protect next year. What seems to be a decline in appropriations in this year's budget is that the appropriations for old forest protection will be terminated. But there's as much money for new forest protection next year, so it's not the case that there's no money for this. And in the case of a solution related to the Trillemarka question, more money will also be allocated to forest protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e672	The representative of Thorkildsen replied no in his statement if it had been done enough, but she said that it was important to move Norway in an environmentally friendly direction. The appropriations for forest protection are reduced by 18 million. kr. In the review here in Stortinget, there is a reduction in the budget of 6.9 million. kr. We have a labor party dominated government, so there might be a three here, so it would be 36.9, but to the seventh and last, there's an actual reduction in this area of 25 million. kr. We move the policy in an environmentally friendly direction, the words of Thorkildsen were used, but the practical policy in the budget adopted today by the Stortinget shows something else – at the end of the loss of biodiversity by 2010, in two years and three weeks. Then my question is, how can SV be involved in a reduction of 25 million? What's the kr?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e679	I would first like to say that SV is quite clear that we have helped to move Norway in a more environmentally friendly direction. We have had breakthroughs both in terms of objectives, in terms of sectoral action plans, in terms of CO2 clean-up, not least, and in terms of protection, for example. in Lofoten and other areas, and the protection of tissue – just to mention something. Then I was in the mood that I think the Left must stay for the nose in the future if they are to cooperate with the Advance Party. I think maybe the representative Holten Hemdal has kept his ear a little bit when I replied to the previous line, because then I said that there is no reduction in the appropriations for forest protection next year. What looks like a reduction is that old forest protection ends. But new forest protection will be as much money as it is. And then we come back to the case when the question of the Trillemark is settled. But it's not the case that we're reducing protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e689	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e692	The focus on climate and environment is high a day. While we stand here and debate the state budget for 2008, important climate negotiations are under way in Bali. First Monday, the Nobel Peace Prize is awarded to the United Nations Panel on Climate Change and Al Gore for their invaluable efforts to document climate change and put global warming on the international agenda. World society is now undergoing a climate policy wake-up. Climate change is proving to be faster than previously assumed. Consequences that an believer was far ahead of time have already begun to occur. Police and glaciers are melting, the sea is rising, and we are experiencing more natural disasters and more extreme drought. Today's report in the Evening Post says it can get colder because the Gulf Stream will change. If we are to be able to stabilise the warming and limit the impacts of climate change, we must start now – yes, we should have started even harder for years. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has established in its report that the emission peak must be reached by 2015 and that greenhouse gas emissions must then be reduced by 50-85 pst. by 2050. Never before has the world society faced a similar challenge. The whole Western world must dramatically change its lifestyle and way of life, and we have a few decades to do this on. The head of the IPCC concluded his presentation when the last interim report was presented, with the following Gandhi quotation, which I think and hope is a quote that this hall can agree on: «Be the change you want to see in the world.» This brings me to today's debate. The budgetary areas of the Committee on Energy and the Environment deal to the greatest extent with climate and the environment, both on good and bad. Our committee is responsible for the oil and gas business, which is Norway's second largest source of greenhouse gas emissions. At the same time, we are responsible for large parts of the Norwegian instrument to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. A lot suggests that in the future we have to put the most emphasis on the last one. When the government budget was launched in October, representatives from the government went high and said that there was a stronger increase in the government's climate and environmental effort. On the basis of new knowledge and new recognition, it was with expectations that I received the State budget. Unfortunately, the Government shows itself stronger in words than in action. The red-greens are recovering in some important areas, such as CO2 management, quota trading and to some extent in the tax system, but it is far from enough to cover all areas where they do not. In the financial debate, emphasis was placed on the total government spending of DKK 24.6 billion on climate and environmental measures in 2008, an increase of a total of DKK 3.3 billion. On request, the Christian People's Party received a full overview of the Government's climate and environmental efforts in various areas. The overview revealed a relative definition of climate and environmental measures. The list of bets includes: one third of the agricultural agreement, operating grants to the Norsk Oil Museum, general museum operations under the Ministry of Culture and the Church, provision for decoration, architecture and design in the public space – just to mention some of the posts. I have to say that climate and environment do not appear to be the foremost common denominator in these items. The government shall be commended for following up with funds for CO2 management at Kårstø and Mongstad. The government's moon landing project cannot be realized without money, and the government has realised that. Due to the start-up of gas power stations at Kårstø, Mongstad and Snow White, Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions are now increasing for the first time in two years. Power plants contribute to emissions of nearly 1 million tonnes each, and this occurs at the start of the Kyoto period, where Norway has committed itself to cutting national greenhouse gas emissions. This does not honor Norway, and it underlines the importance of deploying CO2 management as quickly as possible. Furthermore, in the energy field, it is essential to put in place a real commitment to new renewable energy. Norway has strong natural conditions for the production of new renewable energy. We've already expanded a lot of hydropower. We have a great potential for small power plants. We own one third of Europe's wind power resources, and we have good opportunities to invest in wave power and salinity. The government has, to the best of its ability, tried to produce the 2008 state budget as a historical investment in new renewable energy, but again the red-greens prove stronger in words than in action. Let me mention three concrete things. The Government does not propose strengthening the basic fund for new renewable energy in the next year’s budget. There is no increase in support rates for the deployment of renewable energy in Norway and there is no increase in funding for research on new renewable energy in 2008. At the same time, the government is applying a strong tax boost to the small power industry, which contributes to making each fourth small power project unprofitable, and which also entails a value transfer of approximately DKK 15 billion from the municipalities to the state. The sum of the transfers to Enova amounts in 2008 to DKK 1.4 billion, mainly from the commitment to the network lease and the return from the base fund. However, large parts of these funds will be wasted as long as we maintain the worst support system in Europe. But it is gratifying that today we have been informed that Norway has resumed negotiations with Sweden on the green certificates. This has been an area in which the Christian People's Party has long claimed that we were to negotiate, and finally the Government has taken sense. However, it must also be emphasised that it is important that we have a robust system for the green licence market, if necessary, in place, if we are to agree with Sweden this time. We also have a case in relation to ESA to put in place the support system that the Government has promised to set up on 1 January 2008. The Christian People's Party believes it's good that the government starts with some clever attempts at green tax exchange. It is good that the fuel oil fee is now being equated with the electricity charge. However, several of the government’s green tax practices are characterised by a lack of overall thinking from one year to the next. There is no environmental justification, and they refuse to do what you know works. The Christian People's Party has little faith that an increase of 100 kroner in the annual fee for the most polluting diesel cars will lead to the owners of these cars buying new cars. We also do not believe that a surcharge in the flight price of NOK 3 between Oslo and Bergen will lead to several of us using trains instead of aircraft. Nor can the Christian People's Party see any environmental reason for reducing the annual tax on all petrol cars by 300 kroner regardless of petrol consumption, CO2 emissions, or whether the car has a catalyst. The Christian People's Party is occupied with cultural memories. Our cultural memories are important to take care of. They are important to the understanding of our own history. With the Christian People's Party in government, we took the initiative to set up the Cultural Memory Fund. The vision of the Cultural Memory Fund is to be the main public co-funder of protected cultural memories and cultural environments in private ownership. The size has decided that the fund capital of the Cultural Memory Fund will rise to DKK 1.4 billion during this large-scale period. In its draft budget, the government has not spent any money on the Culture Memory Fund in 2008, and it seems that it is already possible to recover from the decision taken to raise the Culture Memory Fund to DKK 1.4 billion in 2009. This is something Christian People's Party regrets. With this I address the proposals to which the Christian People's Party is the proposer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e745	The representative Line Henriette Holten Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e750	In the budget configuration, the entire Committee, including the Christian People's Party, agrees that knowledge of the environment and geology in the Barents Sea and Lofoten is necessary for further petroleum activities. In fact, the Committee, with the Christian People's Party, says that new knowledge is crucial, and that the collection of knowledge is to take place in the intervening period, i.e. until 2010. It is absolutely incredible that the Christian People's Party, in its main priorities, believes that it is proper to proceed slowly in the mapping of the geological conditions in this region. So they're reducing seismic shooting by 70 million. NOK, but they still agree that we will be done with the studies in 2010. The comments of the parties should well reflect the views of the parties on the matter, but here the Christian People's Party shows an incredibly double communication. Can the representative of the Christian People's Party explain to Stortinget what they really mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e757	Yes, the representative of the Christian People's Party would like to do that. The budgetary proposal put forward by the Government here represents a full commitment to oil exploration and oil extraction monitoring, but there is a poor response to the environmental challenges that such oil extraction will bring about. That is why we have said – and we stood for that in the management plan – that it must be an overall commitment. When the government gives full gas in one area, which is under the Oil Directorate, we say that when you don't give full gas in the environmental programmes, someone has to take responsibility for the whole. That's what the Christian People's Party is doing by slowing down the search activity to get this mapping in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e762	The Christian People's Party underlines in the budget setting that they want petroleum-free zones outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. The former government partner of the Christian People's Party Right goes in the opposite direction. They have gone very far in their statements earlier and more than suggested that if they had remained in government, these areas had already been open to oil and gas activity. These two different views of the Christian People's Party and the Right are, as everyone can see, incompatible. In connection with that, I will ask the Christian People's Party representative to explain to whom it is of the two who tell the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e767	Here's the story of who's been the tongue on the scale. Government cooperation between the Left, Right and Christian People's Party clearly stated that we should not open up to oil exploration in the Lofoten and the Barents Sea, in vulnerable areas. Petroleum-free zones, it says in our government document – and that is a much more radical point than the government document of the representative Marthinsen – where we have said that we should keep looking and monitoring, and then see if we should open. The Christian People's Party has faced a radical policy in this area, and with the climate challenges we face, I think we need a radical change in the oil policy on Norwegian soil and in the Barents Sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e775	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e778	Over the last year, we have been made even more aware of the consequences of the man-made activity on earth for the environment. The UN Climate Panel has not only determined that climate change is the result of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions, but that the changes are more extensive and happen faster than we have previously believed. The centre party is based on a tradition of thinking for more than one generation. We know that the political choices we make here today are followed for those who come after us, for good and for bad. In the climate debate, elections are becoming even more important and the consequences are even more extensive. Against this background, the Central Party is proud to be part of a government that is engaged in new work in climate policy, a government that takes on the seriousness of the challenges facing the world, both by contributing to good solutions when it concerns the climate elsewhere in the world, and by taking action domestically. We are a rich country, rich in capital and rich in competence. When the Government invests significant resources in the capture and storage of CO2 on Kårstø and Mongstad, it is not just an important domestic measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. There is also a hope of being involved in the development of new technologies, which can help solve the challenges facing the world globally. Climate and energy hang carefully in clusters. The centre party is busy that we are going to reach the government target of 30 TWh new renewable energy by 2016. The active substance must be positioned to achieve this objective. The government is investing heavily in environmentally friendly energy production. The overall framework for 2008 is approximately 1,450 million. kr, an increase of about 660 million. kr from the previous year. There are funds to be used for energy efficiency improvement, heat and electricity from renewable energy sources, to make Norway a more environmentally friendly energy nation. The news from today is that the negotiations with the Swedes on green certificates are positive in this way. The energy and environmental taxes in our country and in other western countries are closely linked to the consumption pattern we have. The ever-growing consumption is a huge environmental tax, and the climate debate is not complete until we dare to address our consumption level. This debate is largely absent today, and I am surprised that one of the country's business summits in the debate on the production of biofuels on food soils can say that unfortunately, in the years to come, we have to accept that several deaths of sulphur in the poor part of the world, for now it is about producing environmentally friendly fuels for the rich part of the world. It's all the more important to save the globe. So it's easier to set aside the primary needs of people in other parts of the world than to raise the debate on our own high consumption. Another important area is biological deficiency. Monitoring and conservation of biodiversity depends on resources and policy priorities. This is where the Government will deliver in several areas. The preservation work on mountain reefs is an important area, the species database another. Summary: Norway has huge challenges both within the energy field and within the environment. The government party meets both of these challenges in a more offensive way than any other government has ever done. We use more resources than ever to generate new renewable energy. We present steps in environmental and climate policy that no government has been in the vicinity of doing before. That's because we're determined to achieve the ambitious goals that we've seen in these areas. The fact that in a few years the opposition has gone from a reasonable one-sided focus on tax relief to competing with the Government on the level of ambition for greater environmental effort to achieve the goals set in the Soria Moria Declaration, yes, what we in the Center Party think is good. That's what we in the Center Party mean that there's reason to commend the opposition for. There have been many good articles about the climate here today. I'm slipping over the representative Kristiansen from Right's post. It seemed to me that I signaled a slightly new course from the Right Party in climate policy. There is not so much in politics and in the comments that are underlying here today, but we hope to see a new line from the Right in this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e804	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e807	It was a part of the project, including: small-scale builders, who were shocked when they saw the Government's tax arrangements for 2008. It was said that many small power plants are in danger of going bankrupt, and it says here in a letter from the Small Power Association: ‘This is the dramatic reality of many power plants from the turn of the year. And the breach of bankruptcy will lie lurking in the background.’ And on the other hand, ‘It must be the paradox of the times that the government’s ‘action’ on new renewable energy will end in bankruptcy for the only ones who produce new renewable energy to the extent of montage.’ We are familiar with this, and my question is: How in the world – the Centre Party has been a strong champion for the development of both micro, mini and small power plants in District Norway – was it possible for the Centre Party to agree to something as serious as this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e822	The changes in the tax ecosystem for hydropower producers that have been made have caused some reactions from the industry. For the Central Party, it is important to take these reactions and these recorded seriously. We are therefore pleased that a majority in this room in the financial institution agreed to a broad review of incentives for small-scale power generation and for other types of renewable production towards the revised state budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e827	I want to pursue it a little bit, because there's a little bit of a journey the Center Party here has invited small power owners around the country on. You've gone from hope of green certificates to actually a good deal of practitioners standing in front of a regime where you get over 100 pst. taxation. Then it doesn't keep saying that you have had some reactions. There's a lot of frustration out there, and it doesn't keep saying that you should have a broad review of the revised state budget, because some of them actually risk going bankrupt before that time. What does the representative Sande say to his constituents, as a good part of them are, who have chosen to invest in this in faith that they should have stable, good assumptions, and that they should invest in renewable energy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e834	I answered a part of this question in my answer to the previous replicator. I'm not going to repeat all of that, I'm just going to repeat that we are now going to have a wide review of incentives both for energy from small power plants and for other types of renewable energy in the coming six months, to ensure what is the goal of the Government, namely 30 TWh new renewable production by 2016. So I want to say, because it's right here that replicates. If you are busy with business development in the districts — and that is the Center Party — yes, it is important to put in place business development makers. If Gunnar Gundersen and other Right-Representatives are so preoccupied with business development in the districts, why do they systematically remove the hubs that one had for business development at the time when Right put in government? Why do they cut in support of Innovation Norway for industrial development? Why remove support from local food funds, which could just be incentivising new activity and new industrial development in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e841	We have enough knowledge of the climate challenges we are facing. Now we have to act, and we have to act on many fronts. Perhaps one of the most important things is that we get a radical change in the tax system. It is also important that it is focused. This year, while the one-off tax on diesel cars was greatly facilitated, a higher annual tax and a higher fuel tax will be paid on these cars, while on all petrol cars and diesel cars with a factory-mounted particulate filter the annual tax will be reduced by NOK 300. It is difficult to see a comprehensive line in the Government's tax policy on cars. Therefore, my challenge to the representative is to clarify the Government's tax conversion in this area. Is it so that the same amount of CO2 that is released is it entirely possible to get 300 kroner less in the annual tax in 2008?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e855	First, I want to disagree with the representative of the Christian People's Party in what she is going to introduce, when she says that we have enough knowledge. I don't think we have enough knowledge. I think we need more knowledge, both about what kind of impacts climate change will have, and about how climate change will affect nature around us. I believe that Holten Heimdal agrees with me. We can never get enough of knowledge. It's important to clarify. The tax system will always be a hub to achieve the objectives of policy. Climate policy is an example of this. The current conversion – including: Of the car charges - is one of the hubs that a user uses to make transport in Norway more environmentally friendly. So that conversion is in progress. We hope that she will give the result that the Government has as its goal, simply to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e864	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e867	The Bali climate meeting is in progress. The world needs far more ambitious agreements than we have. We need a new global agreement, which can replace the Kyoto agreement. The objective of this agreement must be to ensure that the earth's temperature does not rise by more than 2 degrees. One of the government's objectives is to work for the Bali conference to set such a goal, even though we are realistic enough to realize that this is not going to happen in Bali. But it has to happen during the two-year period until the Copenhagen Summit. There is now overwhelming evidence that the temperature of the soil is rising, that it is due to anthropogenic pollution, and that it is not possible to prevent a temperature rise of less than 2 degrees. But we can prevent a temperature rise of over 2 degrees. Norway should be a leading country in this policy, and there is no doubt that we are. We have to be a low-emission society. We're going to make significant reductions at home, and we're going to be a driving force and an engine in international work to get a more binding agreement in place. The level of ambition at the Bali conference may seem modest, but if we agree on a negotiation process towards the Copenhagen meeting in 2009, and if we get clear signals from the United States and China – as the two most important countries – that they will participate in some sort of negotiation process by 2009, it will be the decisive start that we now need. The fact that CO2 capture and storage has come up as a new technological tool also provides a significantly greater reason for optimism than before, and I think it will be one of the main reasons for including the United States in binding future agreements. At the same time, dominant issues at the Bali conference will be linked to the rich western part of the world's ability and willingness to pay for action in the poor part of the world. There are basically three types of action that the poor will require. One is technology transfer, that is, the ability to produce solar/water power or the technology associated with CO2 capture and storage/energy efficiency is provided cheaply to the poor part of the world, and funded by us richly. We have to be in it. The second thing they want is that we need to be involved and pay for the measures to adapt to a warmer climate, measures that they need to take because of climate change only the rich part of the world has enjoyed. After all, we have enjoyed climate change, in the sense that it is our economic growth that has created the emissions that create climate change. Then we also have to be willing to join in and take responsibility for those who have to suffer completely unjustly from this, in the form of a warmer climate, which gives desertification in Africa, which gives new cyclones in Bangladesh, and which allows island states to disappear in the Indian Ocean or in the Pacific – in short, no matter what there may be of different adaptation measures. Then we must be involved in paying for the protection of the rainforest, which is necessary to prevent further climate change. In this context, I would also like to say that we must start to think about how we will adapt Norway to climate change. That's what we're doing. Although the most dramatic consequences will come in the poor part of the world, Norway will also be able to see consequences. We'll be able to experience more races. It will get wetter where it is wetter in Norway. We'll be able to experience a loss or a change in species diversity. So we'll see a number of consequences. The Directorate is doing this work, and we're going to put full pressure on it. So I can't let you make any comments about the different governments, because it's a favorite theme that's brought up here. As I see it -- I followed the Bondevik government closely -- the Bondevik government did a terrible job in Norwegian society, but it wasn't in the environmental field it put a trail behind it. In the area I followed the Bondevik government closely – in the area of assistance – nothing was done. This government has come in and put almost 1 billion new, fresh kroner on the table for environmental action in the poor part of the world. It didn't happen before. Nothing happened in this area during the Bondevik administration. The truth is, little happened in the environmental field during the Bondevik administration. There's a lot more happening now! It can be thought that also the historical judgment of the Stoltenberg government will be that it did not do enough either. But at least it is absolutely certain that we are doing incredibly much more on the whole spectrum of the environment, and especially on climate action, than what the Bondevik government did. Let me take CO2 capture and storage as an example. It is possible that I remember incorrectly, but I do not remember that there was even a central theme in Norwegian policy under the Bondevik government. At that time, CO2 capture and storage was a non-theme. Different governments started different gas power plants – on Kårstø, on Mongstad and on Melkøya. Let's not rip up all the details around it now, but it was when Kristin Halvorsen got across – Åslaug Haga did the same – that the whole debate on CO2 capture and storage came up. At that time, the political pressure that triggered this entirely decisive new technology came about. So this government has made this a major field of action. We can't drive it that way that we can be absolutely sure just when we develop the technology for CO2 capture and storage, that we can keep all the deadlines and dates. The crucial question is whether the political will is in place, so that we can move forward resolutely in the direction that we are developing this technology, that Statoil is developing it, and that the Kårstø project can hopefully contribute to Aker Kværner developing such a technology too, so that we get two competing environments in this area in Norway, which will be of the good. Here we go. So the government – and we will – should present to the Stortinget a more comprehensive plan for our international effort to promote the idea of carbon capture and storage internationally, and for interconnecting with the international trade unions in this area. It has been reported that the United States has come further than Norway. If that's the case, it's just brilliant. Then we can learn from them. At least we should be able to cooperate with them. A British government has launched a project for CO2 capture and storage in connection with coal in the United Kingdom. They have launched cooperation projects with China for CO2 capture and storage. All of this is brilliant. Norway shall be part of it and contribute to the development of this technology. The crucial question is the willingness to go clearly in that direction, and that will has this government. Then the debate has revealed a number of disagreements between the opposition parties. The party of progress is constantly criticising the government for being too low-environmental. The Left and Christian People's Party criticises the Government at times for being too much environmentally friendly. On the right, the government criticises in part that we are too much environmentally friendly, Left and Christian People's Party because we're a little too little environmentally friendly. But let's add this to the side. What is quite clear is that there is no overall alternative in the environmental sphere to the current government. We are committed to making a compromise with the part of the Stortinget that has shown a willingness for environmental responsibility – Right, Christian People's Party and Left. That work is now under way in the Committee. We will show willingness to try to meet demands from opposition parties in this area. Let me just say the same thing: Just since the climate announcement was presented in Stortinget, new and more ominous information has emerged about how serious the situation is, which must be the basis for how biging and government acts on this issue. Nothing is more distant to me than to think that this government has come up with everything that is smart and right in the whole world, and that there can't be anything wise from the opposition. Of course it can. That's why, by allowing the opposition to record the good ideas they have, we'll work together and see if we can find solutions. With the seriousness that the situation is more serious than we realized just for a while back, I hope we can find a settlement. I also want to give credit to the opposition for being an important driver in pushing for the cooperation we are now hoping to achieve with Sweden, which, of course, the Minister of Oil and Energy is going to talk more about, namely a single market for green certificates. It is to the credit of the opposition parties that they have been a driving force in this area. Without them, it is not sure how it had gone. But the important thing is that we get it done. There will be a powerful answer to many of the questions raised here, that we have not come far enough in the work on renewable energy. There are a number of big and small questions that have been raised by the Committee, which I should have touched on. It's not right, as Ivar Kristiansen says, that there's a break in the NOx negotiations. I don't know if that's what he meant. We have every hope and faith that there will be a NOx settlement with the industry. I hope that we can also have a dialogue with the opposition about it. We will come back more strongly with a natural diversity law, on strengthening different areas of natural diversity, such as the Christian People's Party, the Left and others, in future budgets and forwards. In the case of forest protection, Inga Marte Thorkildsen responded quite carefully to it. We want to strengthen forest protection, maintain it at the current level. We will strengthen it in the future. We will return to Stortinget in connection with financing of forest protection when we come back to the case of Trillemarka. It is also true, as the National Audit Office has pointed out, that the management of open-air and protected areas has been neglected, and we will address those issues. I have also noted the Committee's views on the follow-up to the National Park Plan and the Committee's views on a review of the relationship between the SNO and the mountain governments. There are a number of big and small and important issues that we are going to address, based on the position that the Committee has put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e952	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e955	It is clear that the climate is important for the Council of State when he spends 4 minutes and 40 seconds talking about the climate and the rest talking about his responsibilities. With regard to Trillemarka and the protection of rainforest, I am sure that the Progress Party and the Government could have agreed if they had protected 400,000 targets of rainforest instead of 200,000 targets in Trillemarka, but on the other hand. I'm terribly in doubt about what is the government's protection policy. It's mildly awfully difficult to grasp. On 16 October, Ola Borten Moe, now head of the nutrition committee, as at the time was the spokesman of the Central Party in the case of protection, said that we need a new protection policy and that we need a protective break. On 24 November 2007, the United Nations has published a notice that the Central Party has had a positive impact on the period of protection, that the Bondevik government has, tragically enough, been protecting 164 square kilometres of forest, and that until now only 37 square kilometres of forest have been protected by the Stoltenberg government. Then my question becomes: Is it a protective break, isn't it a protective break? Or is this just a result of root and quarreling internally in the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e966	At first I hope that the Storting has forgiveness for the climate to be the main thing in this historical situation. It is a week to the high-level part of the climate summit in Bali. This summit is in progress. This is to be seen as perhaps the most important environmental policy meeting that has so far been held throughout the history of the world. I think that's why we should hold on to the fact that it's essentially right now. That doesn't mean that all the other questions aren't very important. We're going to come back to them at different times. In the case of Trillemarka, the government will come back to that case. But let me say that although of course I am going to be a driver for the resolute protection of Trillemarka, I also have respect for the view of the Central Party in this matter. Some of the success of the Center Party in Norwegian history is that the party has been a powerful speaker for Norwegian urban interests. Anyone who sees the difference between the rural areas of Sweden and the rural areas of Norway, I think I can give the Central Party some credit. Rural areas in Norway look quite different from rural areas in Sweden, because the Central Party has historically been able to stand in such a position that they have defended traditional rural interests in an impressive way. So sometimes I'll challenge these.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e973	State Council Solheim's memory from the Bondevik II government's time probably bears very much the mark of his prolonged stay on Sri Lanka at that time. But when SV came in and took over the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, it was under the banner: we are going to return to Norway as an environmental nation. What has been delivered today is, among other things, cut in forest protection. A NOx environment fund has not yet been established. There have been among the countries in Europe with the worst support schemes for the production of new renewable energy. And you've put forward a climate report that you need to go pretty far into the government quarter to find someone who's talking pretty good at all. Does this not show that the situation may be such that SV should start with itself, and rather bet on returning SV as an environmental party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e985	Not even in the Bondevik government's time, I was so much in Sri Lanka that I wasn't able to play football with Kjell Magne Bondevik almost every Friday morning, so the contact with what happened at that time was enough there. But it was simply not in the area of the environment Norway that changed most positively during the Bondevik government. We can talk about other areas how well happened. In terms of the three concrete things that were taken up here, this is the thing we're definitely going on. The government is now well in the process of negotiating with the industry to set up a NOx regime. I hope it can be terminated quite soon. I also noticed that the criticism from the representative Kristiansen did not come to the conclusion that the government is not going far enough in the NOx area, but that we are probably going too far in tightening up that area in order to comply with the provisions of the Gothenburg Protocol – that is to say, the very opposite criticism of the Left is trying to stand up here. As far as renewable energy is concerned, I agree that we have not come far enough in this area. This is also precisely why the Government is now resuming negotiations with Sweden on green certificates.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1003	Let me first remind the Council of State that CO2 cleaning was also a theme in the previous magnification. In fact, in the previous climate notification several speakers demanded that gas power concessions should not be granted without CO2 cleaning from day one. It is not SV and Kristin Halvorsen who have brought it to the square. It was a decision that was made then. In fact, it has been broken by all the parties involved and adopted it. The party of progress was not in it, because we saw that it was not realistic. But one can't rewrite the story. On the other hand, I react to the distance between life and learning at the Council of State. One here gives the impression that one is going to try to cut CO2 emissions globally as quickly as possible and that Norway is going to spend a lot of money on it. In the State budget, St. prp. No However, the Minister of Finance writes that the Government states that Norway will purchase allowances for approx. 11 million tonnes, but shall sell allowances for approx. 12 million tons. So the Norwegian government is adding up to be a net seller of CO2 quotas, simply because you have a profit when the oil industry has to buy. How does this compare with being so offensive and cutting CO2 emissions, when one feeds net allowances to the market?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1027	I notice that the opposition is consistently trying to doubt that the government is ambitious in the environmental field. The impression that's out there is quite another. Norway is the country with the most ambitious objectives in the field of climate change, in the field of the environment, by some countries. If anyone can show me which countries have significantly more ambitious climate targets, I would like to hear about them, because then we should work to move in that direction. I heard recently at the Bali meeting how some of the international environmental organisations praised Norway. On the other hand, I never hear any rose Advancement Party. The reason for this is that the Progress Party has not even decided whether it is in favour of the Kyoto mechanisms. When the Peace Prize went to Al Gore and the United Nations Climate Panel, the Progress Party issued a protest statement against this, instead of being glad that the Nobel Committee resolutely establishes the link between environmental degradation and war. Based on what the climate panel has sent out, one uses such an opportunity, not to say that this is great, that this brings the climate battle in the world ahead, but to doubt the entire project. You can't be an astronaut if you think the earth is flat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1037	There is no doubt that the biggest challenge of our time is the climate change we are facing, but despite this, I want to ask another question to the Council of State. As I said in my post, it's important to take care of our cultural memories. They're important teaching places in terms of the history that's behind us. A total increase has also said that in 2009 the Culture Memory Fund will be DKK 1.4 billion, and that in 2008 it will be DKK 1 billion. The budget we got from the government on October 5th says that the 200 million. kr that was granted last year was an exception in relation to the level of appropriations. This is also underlined by a majority comment from the Red-Green Group. My question, then, is how will the Council of State comply with the decision of the Storting on a cultural memory fund of DKK 1.4 billion in 2009, reaching the level of funding of SEK 200 million. kr was an exception, as stated in the proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1048	This is one of the questions I must be allowed to come back to. Of course, the representative should get a thorough answer to that question. One of the lessons I learned – to be a little personal – when I entered the Ministry of Environmental Protection was how unimaginably diverse that department is. It's true, as the representative says, that so far climate and biodiversity have been the two things I've had the most attention around, and, as Stortinget understands, for obvious reasons. But it can't over time mean that cultural memory protection is going to suffer. 2009 is Culture Memory Year, so we're going to come back with answers to this question. I can at least promise that I will do what I can to get an offensive bet on cultural memories, and I am more than willing to cooperate with the Christian People's Party on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1055	The Council of State seems to be a little excited to have found out that there is a difference between the Left and the Advance Party in environmental policy. We've recognised that a long time ago, and among other things. therefore said that we cannot cooperate in government. But he obviously seeks comfort in that it's not only internal in the government that there's a great distance between the parties on environmental issues. Nor has he come to realize that the Bondevik government was offensive in many ways in environmental policy, among others. because a majority with an SV in Stortinget was unable to reach an agreement with the Workers' Party. There were areas that were of great importance for climate. If the Council of State wants to, he can come into my office and bring with him the political accounts of the Left for the last four years. He will have great benefit in reading on his way to Bali. He doesn't have to spend much time on the concrete actions that the government commands at home. Finally, I would like to say: it must be embarrassing to travel to Bali with record emissions in Norway. One of the high-emission sites is Melkøya, a project run by the Workers' Party, where the area for CO2 clean-up is set aside. Will the Council of State help to make progress in using this area to clean up the emissions of Melkøya?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1067	Let me first say to the representative Kvassheim that I agree that it is embarrassing what is happening on Melkøya – emissions far higher than what was prescribed. It may be true that the Workers' Party has been a driving force, but it was the Bondevik government that started the project on Melkøya. So it's a little difficult for the Left to get rid of the responsibility for it. If someone's the innocents at that point, it's probably just SV. But leave it. I find no comfort in the fact that the Left is different from the Advance Party – I am glad that the Left is different from the Advance Party. One of the reasons why the government just wants to reconcile climate policy with the Left, Christian People's Party and the Right – but not with the Advance Party – is that it is not possible to imagine anything in comparison with the Progress Party without making Norwegian climate policy much, much worse. But with these three parties, it's possible to imagine a deal that makes Norwegian climate policy significantly better, and that's what we want to do. I noticed that the representative Kvassheim, when he was challenged about the Bondevik government, said that it represented a massive investment in public transport. Let's assume that's true. At the top of this, Liv Signe Navarsette has come in and done a lot more. If there was heaven in this area with the Bondevik government, it must be nirvana under Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1077	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1080	You can't have a budget debate on energy and the environment without mentioning the climate. The great climate change that we now experience is a challenge for all of humanity. In these days, this is a hot topic because of the large climate conference that has recently started in Bali. Norway shall be a leading country in climate policy. That's why we use, among other things. EUR 288 million for 26 projects in the fourth international polar year, lasting in 2007 and 2008. We're going to have ambitious international climate agreements that are going to follow the Kyoto agreement. One of the themes is to stop at the top of the rainforest, which is an action where the results come quickly and are large. The Kyoto agreement is very important, and I hope that, among other things: The U.S. will soon join the agreement. With us, it is the Progress Party that is following and that voted against the Kyoto agreement – a position that they doubt. The red-green government is betting on many fields, and 250 million. For nature protection, outdoor life and cultural memories is a very big investment. It is important that we get a proper care and management work going on in our protected areas. Here we have both the State’s Nature Observatory – SNO – and the Mountain Service, which is essential for the diversity of plant and animal species. Unfortunately, there have been, and are, some disputes between the SNO and the mountain governments. This disagreement must be taken seriously and resolved as soon as possible. I am pleased that there is finally a government that will address these problems in order to make the cooperation between these two as smooth as possible, for the benefit of people and nature. The SNO also has responsibilities in relation to predator management, and then there are some things I want to clarify. Having the right population, killing pests quickly, and carrying out adopted killings are the best main steps to mitigate the conflicts with the industries. From the budget, I will also mention the research station at Ims in Rogaland and the Knowledge Centre for Salmon and the Water Environment located in Namsos, and the work these two do in relation to saving the wild species as a basis for sustainable management and industrial exploitation. I am very pleased to have been given money to these two. Over to oil and energy: It is gratifying that all parties believe it is important that the Government considers Statnett SF to be the system administrator for the future development of offshore wind turbines. It will be absolutely necessary to see the development of an offshore power grid in conjunction with the land-based power grid in order to avoid misinvestment and unwanted solutions. This is also important to see in connection with electrification of the socket. I read the setting so that the Left and Christian People's Party will electrify from land at any cost. I think this is getting too tight. There are wide variations in installations, both in technical designs and not least in costs. Is it the usual consumer to pay the bill? Today, companies are required to investigate this before a plan of investigation and operation is presented. But the most important thing in this debate is: we need power to be able to electrify on the base. Petroleum activities are moving more and more northwards where more exciting fields are located, not least in the Nordic countries VI and VII and in Troms II. It must be obvious that these areas have been surveyed, both by seismic and environmental studies, by 2010. However, if these areas are to be used for petroleum activities, North and North Norway must have their fair share of the development, otherwise we will say no in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1097	I think today's budget debate illustrates that the Government supports its environmental policy on two main pillars, coercion and levy. Carrots and positive incentives are far between, whip and coercion hail it with. The Progress Party does not believe that the environment and biodiversity in Norway can be preserved with a unilateral focus on these types of instruments. I would like to start by reminding you that Norwegian industry, which is a traditional hydroelectric industry on land or oil industry, is the cleanest in the world, both in terms of emissions of CO2 and other environmentally hazardous substances. Norwegian environmental technology is world leader, and Norwegian technology solutions are implemented in Norwegian industry and exported to foreign industry on a large scale. One of the reasons why Norwegian industry appears to be very environmentally friendly is, of course, the availability of pure electric hydropower. Another factor contributing to high value creation is the new industry, which is more environmentally friendly than the industry it replaces. In the future, we know that the government's policy will ensure that no new industry will be established in Norway, because climate quotas will not be allocated in line with other industries. This will at least apply until 2009, when we can put in place a new and more environmentally progressive bourgeois government. But it is not just a new industry that should be taken care of from an environmental point of view. The REC and the spin-off founder of the REC system, Alf Bjørseth, have been created, have been rusted up in the clouds of the government parties. There is reason to recall that the REC adventure is largely based on the old melting plant and material technology of the Elkem system, funded by hydropower money from the large power plants. There can't be much doubt that if this government were to lay the foundation for the REC adventure, the adventure would have ended up as a nightmare, like the Soria Moria statement. However, it is not only peculiar climate quotas that the Norwegian industry is exposed to. Last year the majority introduced an environmental tax for NOx emissions of 15 kroner per year. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, Some jobs in fisheries are penalised by NOK 60000 in a levy because of the government’s NOx tax. For fisheries, this means a reduction in the fishing lot of NOK 30 000. The commitments from the position, with the Senterpartiet in the head, were that within a few months a so-called voluntary environmental fund was to be set up, a measure that would reduce the costs of the factories, fishing vessels and cargo vessels from DKK 15 per tonne. not more than € 3 to € 5 per kg. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg. Despite the fact that a number of central party peaks still speak in the opposite direction, such a system is not yet in place. So it hasn't taken a couple of months, but it's already a year without the solution in place. This is an excellent example of, as I started with, that the main instrument of the Government's environmental policy is increased taxes, and nothing more than that. So the government was going to spend about 250-300 million. I'll give you $1,600 million. kr from the NOx charge for environmental measures. Then, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to state that if the Government in general, and the Center Party in particular, is to be left with a bundle of environmental trust, that part of the collected 1 600 million. kr paid in the NOx tax by the actors joining the fund schemes, which have not already been used for NOx mitigation measures, is transferred to the board of the NOx fund. The Progress Party supports its policy that Norwegian industry must and must be the world leader in eco-innovation and eco-innovation. One important premise I would like to remind you of is that Norwegian industry actually needs to be given conditions that enable it to survive in Norway. In other words, the answer is not to give companies conditions that are so bad that they break their necks or move abroad. The answer is an active energy, research and industrial policy that, together with strict environmental legislation, can support during the maintenance of clean Norwegian hydroelectric power processing industry in this century. Salmon is an example of a species under pressure in Norway. There are many cause factors that have a negative impact on salmon, including: hydropower expansion. At the same time, new knowledge shows that rivers can be well developed without exceeding the salmon population, and that already developed rivers can be made much more salmon-friendly and thus strongly strengthen the salmon strains in some rivers, while producing more power in the same rivers. I find reason to bring forward the changes that were made in Altaelva after the Norwegian Institute of Nature Management had identified the reason why the salmon had disappeared from the upper parts of the watercourse after power development. The change that was made after that resulted in both an increase in power production and a re-establishment of salmon in upper parts of the Altava stretch. In view of this, it was not with such a small degree of infidelity the Progress Party read the government's budget proposals, which did not allow for further operation at the NINA research station at Ims in Rogaland. In this case, I would like to pay tribute to the members of the Energy and Environment Committee of the Governments for not accepting the closure of the station and, together with the Progress Party, for putting the necessary resources into operation in 2008. However, the villa is not only threatened by power expansion, it is also exposed to a number of threats. One of these threats is acidification, both from agriculture and from acid rain. Kalking has been one of the most successful management measures that has been implemented to some species ever in Norway. In a number of rivers in the South and West, salmon populations are reestablished after liming. I want to commend this government for not cutting the liming appropriations this year, which tradition has been too far from all previous governments. However, by granting for 2008 the same amount that was granted in 2006, the Government has in reality reduced the appropriations for this purpose — fewer rivers can be limed, and the remaining rivers that are not yet limed have to wait longer. The progress party has therefore set at 7 million. kr more, which would roughly mean that the liming activity could be maintained at the 2006 level. But there is only one threat to the wild species that has the potential to eradicate Atlantic salmon as a wild species in Norway. It's the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. The Directorate for Nature Management’s Action Plan for the Control of Gyro adds up to an allocation level of about 30 million. kr annually for a 10-year period. However, this level does not require the use of aluminium, but of rotenone as the primary control. The use of aluminium causes gyro control to be four to five times more expensive than the use of rotenone. The level of appropriations cannot be said to be close to being satisfactory with a view to achieving the target of the eradication of gyro over the next ten years. I think that's sad. I would also like to remind you that aluminium has not in one single case resulted in a final report of freshness, and that it must therefore still be considered to be an exciting project, but as fully a pilot project, and so it will be until it can finally be documented after treatment with aluminium. I would like to refer to the proposal of an overall opposition on the presentation of a big message on the implementation of the fight against gyro. The government parties have announced that they will vote against, which I believe shows that the Government – including SV, who has fought with the Advance Party for this in the past – does not have credibility in the matter of preserving the wild axis. They don't even want to have a debate on the question. This is also illustrated, I believe, by the fact that Elva Driva – regardless of what we decide in this room – will be the last eleven in Norway to be processed for gyro. Nor in 2008 does the Government want to build a barrier in the river Driva and thus postpone the completion of gyro control, for another year, no matter what the level of appropriations will be in the following year. I refer here to the budget of the Progress Party, where we have set aside the 40 million needed. kr for river Driva salmon barge in 2008. So to the wreckage. The party of progress is in favour of the Government choosing to extend the wreckage scheme. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that the scheme should have been extended for both environmental and road safety reasons. I am referring to the fact that the Progress Party has strengthened this post by 334 million. kr, the Ministry's estimated cost of a wreckage scheme covering all cars. This would be an important environmental measure by renewing the Norwegian car fleet, so that the oldest cars, with the largest emissions of both NOx, sulphur, CO2 and particulates, had been replaced for the benefit of more modern and clean cars. This would have a positive impact on both climate and local pollution problems. Then I would say very briefly at the end that the Progress Party supports the ambition to stop the reduction in biodiversity by 2010. However, we strongly doubt whether passive land protection alone is the right way to go. I would like to point out that the large protection areas in the high mountain area under the National Park Plan are largely completed and that new protection will have to be implemented to a large extent in more productive areas, especially in forest areas. Many species have their biotopes in relation to the forest and to a large extent in relation to land, plantations and juvenile forests. It is therefore not obvious that further protection will save these species.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1154	First of all, a small visit to the last speaker, because what Tord Lien says, is that Norwegian industry is among the world's most environmentally friendly, among other things. because the industry has clean power and because they have not been required. It is not possible to say something that is more wrong from this pulpit. That's not right. For many years, the world’s most stringent environmental requirements have been imposed on Norwegian industry, and that is precisely why Norwegian industry today appears to be the world leader in the environmental field. It shows that it is useful to make demands and at the same time have an industry that dares to meet the challenges. So to what I was going to say, I hope this year we can experience two historic events. The most important and largest will of course be a climate settlement here in Stortinget. That's the great hope that we're going to have. I think, if everyone adds the goodwill, that opportunities are really good in that area. The other area, which I also think is a historical event that I want to mention, is that today's government has guaranteed national autonomy over our hydropower resources. If there is one way we have actually built the country, there is one way we have driven industrial development and social development – a development from poverty to wealth – it is precisely in that way that we have managed these resources for the benefit of the community. Therefore, it is also a historical event that the Government has guaranteed the right of self-determination over the hydropower resources. I think future generations are going to thank today's government for its foresight even in 2007. So over to some of the things that are important, and that's getting to new power generation. One of the key keys to achieving this — in addition to the disputed aid scheme, where one today has also announced that a wish to negotiate new green certificates — is to reduce the treatment time associated with the concession. It is an important area, which, hopefully with a good result also in the case of green certificates, will give new impetus to the Norwegian power market. Although I was the case rapporteur for the old support system, which I may see can be phased out, I would like the Government to be happy with the negotiations. Another issue that is also important, if a wish to achieve good results by reinvigorating the market, is to ensure better transmission capacity on the grid throughout the country. If the transmission capacity is not improved, and if the rate of expansion is not improved on the network, we will have significantly reduced opportunities both in terms of accessing the new power and in terms of exploiting it. It's a crucial element. Therefore, it is with a little wonder that I record that several of the opposition's parties are actually very restrictive about going into that idea – because it is very important. Security of supply requirements are also an important issue in the current budget. What may be an ominous sign in time is that the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness is now informing that the rate of investment in the network is dangerously low. It is worrying, and it should be taken very seriously and just remembered in the work that the Government is now doing in relation to the evaluation of the Energy Act. One of the important points that one has to go through is whether the investment system and security are well-managed according to the society we are now looking at in 2007 and beyond. The demand for security of supply is increasing every year, and we are becoming more and more dependent on it. I'm a little surprised that the opposition actually chooses to ignore these clear signals, and that one also signals some kind of double communication that a wanted increased investment in the network, while one wants to reduce costs. I see it's hard to practice those very things. In the end, domestic use of gas is a matter for the Government. That's why an early-stage one has put a lot of prestige into a project that's about a gas pipeline to Grenland. That project has risen through commercial interests and is now on its own, safe legs – as the project looks so far. Then I am a little surprised that the opposition chooses to claim a State guarantee. For as long as the project goes as well as it goes, and it seems to be a very good solution, I don't think it's very wise now to signal that a wish to enter with a state guarantee, as the Right and Advance Party ask. But I'm going to promise both the Right Party and the Advance Party that if the project in its entirety needs more assistance from the Government, the Government, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration, will be prepared to handle that matter in a good way, for both energy and industrial measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1178	It should have been possible to answer in a line change, but I just want to say to the representative, True, that the Centre Party and the Right are completely different in terms of what kind of instruments are needed to get District Norway on the offensive, doesn't mean that we have lower ambitions. It could be that the plane of the Center Party is a little bit out of course. The management of nature is a commitment we have to the next generation. It lies deep within us that each generation should leave the world to the next generation in at least as good a condition as one got it from the previous. Respect for ownership is a prerequisite for the development of a strong and stable society. If environmental policy is to succeed, it must also play on the ownership and the individuals and communities affected by it. There are often errors in practical policy here. One of the main environmental challenges we face today, alongside climate challenges, is the conservation of biodiversity. They are probably even strongly linked. According to the UN, the global loss of biodiversity is now so high and so extensive that it could gradually undermine the basis for sustainable development. That's the background of the ambition to stop the loss. To protect endangered species, it cannot be excluded that any of the areas in which these species live must also be protected. However, the debate must not only concern protection, it must also focus on sustainable use. It's hard to protect. The potential for conflict is great. We can see that, among other things. in Trillemarka. What options does the Government land on? Do you listen to the communities involved, or to the Directorate for Nature Management? A little while ago, the government promised a clarification before Christmas. But what Christmas? On Christmas 2006 it was not, and now we go into Christmas 2007, without a clarification. Is conflict an instrument of national interest addressed to the community and rightholders once again? Mr. Brende took the initiative as Minister of Environment for the voluntary protection of forests. Freedom was an important strategy to increase forest protection. The woods ended up around this strategy, and set up with protective forests. There's a lot of valuable lessons in this. The areas are there, the conflicts can be largely avoided, but it requires willingness to avoid sharpening the conflict. The previous government adopted a Forest Protection Action Plan through cooperation between forest owners and authorities to achieve the objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2010. This force is unfortunately in the process of ebbing out under today's government. The limitation is not a lack of offered areas, but a lack of willingness to allocate funds. In total, the government's proposals for a State budget amount to approximately EUR 10 billion. Twenty million. kr below the level of the Bondevik II Government. It becomes a little special that the representative Thorkildsen in a reply to me obviously did not get the re-disposal of the government parties and cut this allocation in the financial position. The work on voluntary protection is thus in the process of stopping up during the current government due to a lack of appropriations. In opposition, the Workers' Party and SV were to increase the protection of forests from over 1 pst. to 5 pst. It's far from Soria Moria to reality. It would rather enter a long list of lifting breaks. Børge Brende's strategy for voluntary protection was an important step towards halting biodiversity loss. Cut in provisions combined with Soria Moria ambitions will create uncertainty about the Government's willingness to follow words with action and to replace them. There is an uncertainty that no one has earned, so the Right allocates another 20 million. kr for the protection of forests and the preservation of biodiversity. The climate challenge is major and global. There we are in the middle of negotiations. Without the use of a wide range of instruments from international quotas and measures and down to local solutions, one will not succeed. The market must be used here to give individuals the right signals and businesses the right incentives to find solutions. Then I'm a future-optimist. Many district communities experience protection and national environmental objectives as seizing the vitality and quality of life of the local community. This creates conflicts, while the big community is dependent on cooperation with the community to manage its policies. We see that areas that are protected, decay and lose the values that made them protected. In many cases, sustainable use and stimulation of traditional use would have a better effect. In the game management, we see that one extends the volunteer knit longer than it tolerates. This is serious. The challenge is not going to be less. We see that the predator game doesn't have GPS, they don't know the limits we've drawn. They multiply and they become more. Let's take care of volunteering and use SNO to interact with volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1206	We, as politicians, are faced with a responsibility greater than ourselves, greater than the game of party politics. There's a perspective in the climate noise that extends infinitely beyond the next choice. We can't say in 2050 that we didn't know. We have the knowledge of the climate problem, and we have the knowledge to do something about it. We're not dependent on any technological revolution, we're just dependent on will. It's easy to get lost in the clichés, but we actually need to look each other in the eyes and confirm that it's our own future we're discussing. We're discussing that we can be the first generation that leaves the earth to the next generation in a worse condition than it was when we took over. There will hardly be any forgiveness for politicians who are not willing to take on the priorities to which they are going. This year's budget is a step in the right direction. One of the steps taken is to present a new sustainable development strategy as part of the national budget. A key element of that strategy is to contribute to technology development that can reduce emissions. For 2008, we allocate over DKK 1 billion to our projects to develop technology for CO2 management and environmentally friendly gas technology. It is a demonstration of will, bearing in mind the ability to make the world a significant contribution to reducing emissions by making technology more efficient, and not least cheaper. We're going to help make this technology available. It needs the world. Many people wonder what Norway will live on when the oil and gas end. The natural answer to that is environmentally friendly energy, but it requires that we bet now. In the sea there are enormous opportunities. Enova has calculated a theoretical potential for marine wind turbines of 14 000 TWh. That's crazy. It's almost impossible to take over how much force this is about. This includes the potential for not only huge exports of power but also large-scale industrial development based on clean power in Norway. I'm very pleased that Enova recently granted 59 million. kr to further develop the Hywind project. The climate is not saved from the Ministry of the Environment budget; overall efforts from all sectors of society are required. The conversion of charges, the focus on climate action in development cooperation and, above all, the adoption of the ETS Directive are enormously important climate policy measures. Then I just have to mention that in the context of inviting us to a broad climate agreement, we were once again confirmed by representatives of the Progress Party that they would not ratify the Kyoto Protocol as it stands today. The interesting thing is that the reason is no longer that people don't believe in man-made climate change, but that the Kyoto Protocol is too bad. It covers too few countries and the main polluters are not included. It is paradoxical that a party that insists on all climate action being taken in developing countries says something like this. It is clear that we should do a lot in developing countries, but we must also take responsibility for taking action at home. Because there is something the biggest polluters are ready for – countries like India, China, Brazil – it is not appropriate to enter into a binding agreement without taking responsibility for making a significant cut in themselves. So when, for example, the Progress Party reaches proposes to cut the entire allocation to full-scale clean-up on Kårstø, or rail cutters, or considers that it is not appropriate to impose the quota obligation on foreign flights, thereby undermining the possibility of reaching a global climate agreement that is so extensive and so good that even the Progress Party can assist in ratifying it. Finally, I have to say that I am very happy that we are in the starting pit to get a big investment in renewable energy in Norway. Enova has almost doubled her income from last year, and there is money like, among other things. shall make a massive effort to improve heat and energy efficiency. So today, together with the opposition, we have announced that we want to resume negotiations with Sweden on green certificates. Without drawing it too far, I would like to say that it is something that I personally am very pleased with. There is a clear green thread going through this budget. No one has claimed that this is a budget that solves all problems, but it is a budget that demonstrates the willingness to move in the right direction. It's very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1228	There is a great unmet need for energy in the world today. High economic growth in India, China and a number of developing countries have contributed to a strong increase in demand for energy, including oil and gas. It is gratifying that more people get access to goods that we have long taken for granted in our part of the world, but the growth in demand for energy is facing major environmental challenges. Our contribution to development is to maximise energy while developing and implementing measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Through the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has set itself a very ambitious target for the investment in environmentally friendly energy. Energy conversion is very important for the follow-up of major ambitions by the Government. We address the whole population, the municipalities, industry, agriculture and the energy industry in order to implement concrete measures. In the 2008 government budget, the Government follows up this with a historically high allocation for energy conversion. The overall energy conversion framework is approximately 1 450 million. kr for 2008. That's an increase of about 660 million. kr compared to 2007. The increase comes from the return of the new Basic Fund for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency and additional appropriations for the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy in 2008. The establishment of the Base Fund for Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Improvement and the Government's signals of increased deposits underline the long-termity and priority of this work. Enova is the main tool of the Government to promote renewable energy and energy efficiency. Enova is expected to reach a total contractual energy performance of 10 TWh by the end of the year. So it's not right, as someone would like to say, that nothing is happening in this area. Thus, Enova is well placed to achieve the result target of 12 TWh, which is set for 2010. The possibility of getting significantly higher is present, as you understand. Energy efficiency in industry and construction has accounted for almost half of the contractual results up to now. In the last few years, the interest in renewable heat has taken a strong place, and this will be an important area of action in the future. In the autumn of 2006, the Government submitted to the Stortinget a proposal for a new renewable electricity support scheme. It has been suggested that the new renewable electricity aid scheme should enter into force on 1 January 2008. Draft regulation on the consultation of the scheme. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has notified the scheme to the EFTA Surveillance Authority ESA and is now having ongoing discussions on the scheme. The ESA has given signals that they are unlikely to be able to approve the scheme before Christmas. The scheme cannot therefore enter into force from 1 January 2008, as we had hoped. It is also not clear when the ESA’s approval will be available, but we hope that it will come as soon as possible. I also think it is right to inform the Storting that we have taken the initiative towards Sweden to discuss the possibility of a green certification market, which several have already been involved here today. The reason why we have contacted Sweden is the opposition's wish. It has been clearly expressed here in Stortinget that there has been a desire to relaunch negotiations. In addition, contacts have also been made based on developments in the EU, a recognition that there will be a long-term e-certificate market in Europe. There is also a recognition that we already have challenges with the electricity support system in place. We can see that, for example. with the high price growth that we now have on the wind. I am committed to achieving good results from research, which will facilitate good and sustainable solutions in the energy field, not only for Norway as a nation, but also internationally. This requires close cooperation between the industry to implement the measures in practice and the research communities to contribute to technological development. We have good experience of such cooperation in the petroleum industry under OG21 and are in the process of establishing a similar cooperation with the energy industry through Energy21. Energy21 has now sent out a draft strategy for energy research to be consulted. They will deliver a final draft to me on 5 February next year. The government is very concerned about strengthening research on renewable energy. Energy21 has provisionally designated offshore wind as an area in which Norway should bet. Enova's support for Hywind is an important start. However, we must simultaneously focus on several technologies that can contribute to environmental and climate-friendly solutions in the short and long term, for example. bioenergy, salinity and energy-efficient solutions. In addition to energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, we need to research to find the best solutions for CO2 capture and storage – also referred to as CCS. Through our commitment to Kårstø and Mongstad, we are at the forefront of international relations. In addition to the large-scale investment in these two projects, we are committed to ensuring the development of the best possible technology, so that CCS can become a real alternative internationally. I would like to inform the Norwegian Government that the Government has recently established criteria for the prequalification of suppliers to build a CO2 capture plant at the gas power plant on Kårstø. The basis of qualification is designed to allow players with different maturity technologies to pre-qualify. This means that both Norwegian and foreign operators can notify their interest. I believe that the scheme contributes to good opportunities for ambitious technology suppliers. In the 2008 state budget, it is estimated that there is a need of 165 million. kr for the planning and pre-projecting of CO2 capture on Kårstø. As mentioned in the budget proposal, the total allocation need for 2008 for CO2 management projects is below cap. 1833 item 21 very uncertain. It's per. at present uncertain as to how many pre-project studies will have to be carried out in the further planning and acquisition process of CO2 capture installations at Kårstø. This will only become clear at the beginning of 2008 after the deadline for notifying itself as a potential supplier for the expansion of the Kårstø plant expires. If more than one supplier is qualified to participate in the further procurement process, it is likely to result in increased planning costs. The government will come back to Stortinget with a briefing on the status and progress of the projects financed under the cap. 1833 item 21, and, where appropriate, to present proposals for revised appropriations in the context of the revised national budget in June next year. High record prices of oil and gas give us high revenues and high activity on Norwegian base. It's positive, but we're now facing major challenges. Large parts of Norwegian pedestal are ripe, and it is very demanding to extract remaining resources. Oil production has been falling in recent years and has fallen more than expected — despite very high prices and a high level of investment. If we're going to pick up what we're assuming we have of resources in the ground, we're going to have to look for these, i.e. even allocation of exploration land also in new areas where it is estimated that resources are available. Over the last few years, we have received a number of new actors on a Norwegian base to contribute to resource policy. We would generate increased interest in smaller projects and so-called tail production. We did this. At the same time, we have also received a large Norwegian company – StatoilHydro. The large company brings with it many opportunities, but also challenges. In order to meet the challenges and the signal of the Storting in dealing with the merger, the Government has proposed to strengthen the Oil Directorate, Petoro and the Department in total about 50 million. kr, as indicated in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1279	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1282	There are really a lot of questions you should have raised -- I had a list of challenges to the Council of State in my main post. None of the questions were answered in any way. I'm going to leave them because we have a couple of interpellations later where I hope she'll answer them. It is good to hear that the Government acknowledges that their own proposal for renewable energy support schemes was too poor. It is pointed out by the opposition, the environmental movement, the energy industry and industry from the first day. The opposition, on the other hand, has received a lot of criticism in each energy debate after the proposal was presented, because it has been pointed out that it was bad. The Council of State and her red-green party traps have said that soon the opposition will have to give up the fight for green certificates – what the train has gone by. Obviously, it had not gone, and it gives us inspiration to also fight for everything else where we believe that the Government is completely on the wild roads. What I'm asking, on the other hand, is what's new in the last month that makes green certificates suddenly grow up again, because I have asked several questions in writing to the Council of State, and she has denied that there is a planned or ongoing work on green certificates with the Swedes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1291	First of all, it is important to stress that the Government has had a desire to get a green certificate market with the Swedes in place. It's in the Soria Moria statement, and it's been in the bottom all the way. Then we negotiated with the Swedes, as we know, but we couldn't get an acceptable solution. We did not find that it was a proper burden-sharing. There was too high a cost for Norwegian consumers compared to Swedish consumers, and we did not get the development in the renewable sector in Norway that we would like to see. Now we're going into these negotiations with a desire to succeed, but I can't guarantee that we're going to succeed. In addition to the fact that the opposition on Stortinget has kept the pressure on us regarding green certificates, there are some objective reasons why it is wise to do this. Firstly, we see a development in the European Union that will mean that we will have a general certification market in the long term. The second is that we see weaknesses in the electricity support system, for example. when the price level increases rapidly, as it has done for wind power.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1299	StatoilHydro has now had major problems with the Snow White plant, which has stopped and which has emitted 1.1 million tonnes of CO2 over a two-month period. My question is, was the Council of State familiar with these dramatic releases? If so, does the Council of State consider it satisfactory that it is the media that informs the Storting of this dramatic situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1307	As far as we understand, the technical conditions that have evolved on Snow White have created the situation that we now have. There is a situation that everyone is tired of, not least StatoilHydro. We now have a close dialogue with StatoilHydro about this, seafaringly. They have informed the ministry about what has happened. We're going to have conversations with StatoilHydro in the department during the next few days, and I'm going to participate in those meetings. But this is a situation that you haven't had an overview of before in the very last time, as far as I can understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1312	Building society from below is a good center value. We're going to have light in the houses, we're going to have life in the towns, and we're going to use the natural resources in a sustainable way. Many farmers that I have met and who own fall rights have built small power plants. It's a pride that shines in their eyes, and they say to me, I invest for my children. It's for them I'm doing this. Then came a cold shower in the autumn with a change in the power plant tax. One-quarter of the development has stopped, and we get a value transfer of maybe NOK 15 billion from the municipality to the state. Small energy is good district policy and good renewable policies. Now we know we're going to have a wide-ranging investigation to review – that's what the majority of the committee says. But in a letter to the Stortinget on 20 November, the Council of State has said that the Government will stimulate the expansion of small, mini and micro power plants. What lies in this in relation to today's level of aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1321	It is quite right, as the representative says, that there is a lot of common stuff between the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, among other things. building society from below and having an active view of the districts, and also helping people to live in the districts. I think our parties have exactly the same commitment to small power. The government also has a great commitment to small power. There have been weaknesses in the tax environment in the small energy sector. We have had some relationships that have helped us to make unfortunate adjustments. But now I am very well aware that the proposal adopted by the Stortinget creates reactions, among other things. in the Small Energy Association and in the Land Association of Energy Holdings. You probably don't agree on the numbers in terms of what this means. But what is quite clear is that we are now going to go through this thoroughly. We're going to have business consequences, environmental policy consequences and tax consequences, and come back to the matter in review.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1328	When the Energy and Environment Committee gave its opinion a few days ago, the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party voted against a proposal to resume negotiations with Sweden on green certificates. Today, Marianne Marthinsen, Erling Sande and Inga Marte Thorkildsen from the Committee on Energy and the Environment are presenting and saying that this is a great day for renewable energy, for now a resumption of negotiations with Sweden is about to take place. It's in many ways the best thing that's happened for a long time – it's going to be a kind of spring solution just beyond Christmas. If it is that the Central Party really, SV really and the Labour Party, as well as the entire opposition on the Stortinget, has wanted to resume the negotiations a long time ago – then who has stopped it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1337	As can be seen from the Soria Moria statement, the government has always had an ambition to create a green certificate market with Sweden. Then we didn't get it in the negotiations that were held for what is now beginning to approach a few years ago, 1 1/2 years ago. You may want and have ambitions to start new negotiations, but you can't start negotiations with anyone if you don't know they want to negotiate. In fact, we received a confirmation from the Swedish Energy Minister on Monday this week, when Maud Olofsson and I met in Brussels, that Sweden was interested in entering into negotiations. That gives us the opportunity to get started. So I sincerely hope that we will find a solution this time – I cannot guarantee it – but we are going into the negotiations both from the Swedish and Norwegian sides with the starting point that we will succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1344	It is not just the small-scale producers who doubt the tax increases proposed by the Government. The municipalities also lose many power crowns. It shall be transferred approximately: EUR 15 billion from the municipalities of the state – at least that is what is contained in the proposal. In the South, expressions are used as state looting and ran by the powerhouses about the government’s fiscal austerity for 2008. Energie e.g. will reduce its profits by a total of DKK 1.8 billion, with the consequences it will have for the free movement of municipalities in the South. What will the Council of State actually do to stop this obviously fiscal – excuse the expression – madness that has now affected many hydropower producers in Norway and that results in hydropower projects directed by Agder Energie in perhaps up to 1 TWh being put on ice?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1353	‘Gallope’ is on the edge of being unparliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1356	I cannot benefit from the figures referred to here by Andersen, but I am aware of the fact that the proposals contained in the budget have triggered reactions in the Small Power Association, in the EBL and to some extent also in ordinary municipalities. We have made changes to the tax system because there were some obvious weaknesses there. Then there is also agreement that we should have a complete review of the framework conditions for small forces, because we are concerned with small forces. The government will therefore initiate a work in which one should look not only at the tax aspects of small power but also at the economic and environmental aspects. Then we're going to come back to it in a thorough and proper way in the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1363	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1366	Today, we are adopting a budget that shows that Norway is on the offensive in the field of the environment, and that we are an energy nation committed to a number of environmentally friendly forms of energy that most countries in the world can envy us, hydropower, bioenergy, wind power, solar energy and perhaps also wave power. We are the first country in the world to make a huge leap to deal with CO2 emissions when we produce, for example. fossil fuel power, i.e. gas. We have strong and well-founded strategies to develop the technology to enable this. The red-green government has also put on the table the money that is now needed. If we succeed in commercially exploitable technology, we will be able to put this technology at the disposal of the world community. This would be one of the most important contributions to a better environment, an environment that can give the world a breathing space. Both the professional and the political analyses of future energy production tell us that the use of fossil fuels, especially coal, will only increase, although now more than ever before there is a global focus on environmentally friendly energy production and consumption. The technology for the capture and storage of CO2 and other greenhouse gases is our necessary and great opportunity. It is so incredibly important that the international community succeeds in reaching binding agreements to slow down and reduce overall emissions. The Kyoto agreement paved the way for both understanding the problem and commitment for many of the world’s nations. Although many are not present, it is evident that the Kyoto Agreement mechanisms demonstrate opportunities and also inspire those who do not have reduction obligations and those who have been defrauded so far from their responsibility. Accidents gnaw in the collective conscience of many nations. The United States is an obvious example. While the country has elected a president who was literally bought and paid by, among other things. large oil giants and other industries that were willing to spend huge resources on disinformation have now said to a large part of the American people, states and municipalities that they do not. During our visit to California and Alaska this fall, we confirmed this. We've got a tangible sign in the last few days, where the Republican governor of California is now attacking his party trap in the president's chair in order to be able to work for a better environmental policy. The awakening of one of the world’s greatest polluters is of invaluable importance in reaching agreements with other countries that have so far been passive. Perhaps the Bali meeting could have been the start of this process. I also believe that we should be on guard when someone thinks that the world's energy and environmental challenge can be solved using nuclear power. Countries in Europe such as Sweden, Germany, the Netherlands, Spain and Italy have previously decided to phase out their nuclear energy programmes. Of course, it is based on operating uncertainty factors and on enormous costs and unresolved nuclear waste storage problems. Handling and safe storage of spent nuclear fuel is almost as unresolved today as it was 60 years ago, when nuclear power was put into service. After a very serious accident in 1979 at the Three Mile Island nuclear power plant, the United States stopped all its expansions of nuclear power plants for 25 years. It may surprise some that during the past year and a half we have had several accidents at Swedish nuclear power stations, accidents that did not have serious consequences for humans and the environment, probably thanks to good safety practices. Then it would be strange if we started experiments with thorium in Norway. This is a radioactive material in which the world in general lacks knowledge of the handling of the spent nuclear fuel, e.g. on the behaviour of this in the case of mountain deposits. I believe that Norway does not need or have the right to gamble with the health and safety of future generations. Through practice in Norway, we have shown that our future energy development is going through the use of renewable energy sources, which is also reinforced in the climate communication. I believe that today's Council of State statement on our further road was an example of Norway's contribution to the world's energy supply in a very sensible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1392	We now see that there is a huge interest in the ongoing climate negotiations in Bali in Indonesia. Although at present there is a reasonably firm situation in world climate policy, the Bali climate meeting is considered to be very crucial for the post-Kyoto climate policy formulation, which expires in 2012. There is now a broad consensus among researchers, politicians and state leaders in most countries that climate change problems are so serious that they give rise to considerable concern and that binding international climate conventions are absolutely necessary to avoid dramatic global temperature increases in the future. There is therefore an enormous interest in what will happen during the ongoing climate conference in Bali, where Norway will arrive with great views of climate action. But there is absolutely no reason for Norway to hit its breasts in Bali and proclaim itself to the world's environmental lighthouse. As early as next year, Norway is setting a new emission record for greenhouse gases at home. While the world's emissions are increasing by an average of approx. 3 pst. in the year, Norway’s emissions increase by almost 4 pst. in 2008. Thus, in the very first binding Kyoto year, 2008, Norway is estimated to be 12 pst. over the reference year 1990 in emissions, i.e. 11 years above the country's Kyoto target. The position of Norway at the Bali conference is a strange one when we see how we are at home in climate accounting. In reality, Norway has some limited opportunities to achieve the climate goals set by the Government. In one area, however, we can nevertheless distinguish ourselves as a climate-friendly nation, namely by investing in the increased use of our large renewable energy sources, hydropower, bioenergy and wind power. Norway continues to have a high untapped potential for renewable energy sources. Here in the country we still have about 30-40 TWh of unused hydropower that we can deploy if we want. Only in small scale unregulated hydropower generation do we have a potential of 10 to 15 TWh power generation. Norway also has the highest potential for wind power in Europe, with theoretical potential of 80–90 TWh. In Norway, we have very large unexploited bioenergy resources, where we can easily extract 10-20 TWh bioenergy per year within a few years. So, paradoxically, we have now found ourselves in a supply deficit situation in electricity in Norway. Even in a year of normal rainfall, our hydropower system is unable to produce enough electricity for its own consumption, so we have to import 5-7 TWh, and for seven of the last 11 years, Norway has been a net importer of electricity from abroad. Thus, as a consequence of political emergency in power policy over the last 10–15 years, Norway has now become dependent on importing highly polluting coal from the EU. If this Norwegian coal power imports are introduced into a climate perspective, Norway should now feel strongly committed to building more of the available renewable energy potential that we have. If we net import one year, let's say 5 TWh coal power, it gives an emission of approx. 4 million tonnes of CO2 — approximately equivalent. 10 pst. of our total CO2 emissions. This is alarming. These 5 TWh we could produce ourselves using hydropower or wind power, if the government had arranged for this. We need to pursue an energy policy that facilitates far better everything from concession treatment to good support schemes and framework conditions elsewhere that need to be designed to stimulate increased investment in new renewable power generation in Norway, so that we release coal power imports and are self-sufficient in renewable energy in Norway within a few years. Everything else is completely absurd with the great opportunities we have, but then we need an active political action, and the Progress Party really needs to know how to stand for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1415	I note that the political wind has turned, and the safest indicator on it is the coat of the Progress Party. The previous talk really hotly talked about international agreements. He pointed to broad consensus among climate scientists. I don't disagree with him, but I want to say welcome after, because there are quite new tones from that front. A little while ago, the government launched an offensive Northern Territory operation. Many small coastal communities are now in the midst of a shift where fishing industry jobs are being out of the country, looking for new legs to stand on. This government sees opportunities in the north, and it dares to take the necessary steps to make use of these possibilities. The overall plan for the North Region Initiative is underpinned, including in environmental and climate policy. Arctic strips mark climate change first, and developments have accelerated in recent years. The government sees the possibilities and shows that you have the power to take the necessary action. Finnmark has also marked the establishment of the Snow White plant in Hammerfest, both for good and for bad. Greater ring-effects than expected have caused us growing pain, as we notice in the form of housing shortages and labour shortages. Furthermore, petroleum activity in the north must ensure value creation locally. Among the people of Hammerfest, there is confusion when the municipal doctor at one moment claims that the torch on Melkøya and the subsequent soot are not harmful, while at the same time encouraging children not to eat snow and earlier in the harvest so that they would rather not eat the berries. There is also confusion about the emission permit to StatoilHydro. The company claims they are allowed to release as much as they want in the first two years, while the SFT claims that StatoilHydro has probably not fully understood what the emissions permit involves. CO2 management is one of the most important measures Norway can implement to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The government is offering a historic investment of approximately 935 million. kr. In addition, more than 690 million are granted. for the conversion of energy use and energy production. Conversion from red to green taxes and the introduction of climate allowances show that Norway not only has one of the world’s most ambitious climate targets but also takes real action to reduce emissions. With that, I also see the basis for a broad climate agreement here in Stortinget. I have a great hope that we will get it ashore. [[A strong news from the representative of Klungland is causing great joy in the Chamber.]] The government is concerned with the prompt and effective collection of aggravation permits. It is necessary to build up competence in local hunting teams to ensure this. A small number of aggravation permits that have been issued have resulted in the destruction of pests. All stages of administration must focus on ensuring the competence and quality of the hunting teams to follow up. The little, beautiful hunter the mountain reef is in danger of disappearing from Norwegian fauna. There are only about 50 individuals left in Norway. I want to underline the importance of the two projects in progress to preserve the reefs. It is our responsibility to preserve Norwegian wild salmon. I am proud that the majority want to increase the appropriations for the research station at Ims and the important job they do there. The government provides an offensive budget and shows it's headed for Soria Moria. The ambitions are on top, the instruments are in place, and we already see the contours of results. We're not on target, but we're on our way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1448	The President will recall Section 39 of the Rules of Procedure: ‘It is not permissible to express dissatisfaction or dissatisfaction during the negotiations.’ The speakers who are given the floor now have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1453	First to the last speaker: it is therefore the case that the Progress Party takes the climate challenges seriously – just as it has been said. Let me say that since the red-green government joined, in my opinion, the only thing that this government has achieved in energy and environmental policy is to put the Norway record of the time in greenhouse gas emissions next year, and also to stop the best renewable energy support schemes, namely to wreck green certificates. There has been a great deal of distance between the Red-Green Councils' celebrations on renewable energy investment and practical action in real-world policy efforts to speed up the development of new renewable energy in Norway. The first serious error that the red-green government did was just to throw away the promising scheme of green certificates. The questioning of the certification system was an energy and environmental blunder of dimensions. Now it has also been shown that Prime Minister Stoltenberg was very wrong when he then claimed that the Norwegians would have to pay more than the Swedes for the flow of a common Swedish-Norwegian electricity certificate market and for that reason rejected the scheme. Through a scheme of green certificates, which the Government is now resuming the negotiations on – that is good – and for which all opposition parties are still in favour, we could have triggered many good investments in new renewable energy production in Norway and gradually made the country more independent of importing polluting coal power from Europe. Now this is getting a little late. Of all things, the Government in the 2008 budget proposal even stops the investment in small hydropower projects by increasing their taxation dramatically. Builders of small-scale hydropower plants all over the country are in despair. Profitable power projects have suddenly become unprofitable, and many small-scale power owners are now heading for bankruptcy. So this is the Government's commitment to new renewable energy in practice. The government's tax attack on small-scale owners has now become so bad that the amount of time spent on renewable energy ends up being bankrupt for small-scale producers. How in the world can the Central Party and the Council of State sit calm and watch this happen, not least since this hits District Norway? Norway has a climate perspective. Therefore, we are obliged to contribute to the development of more renewable power generation. So I hope – and the Advance Party hopes – that, from now on, framework conditions will be set up that will make it possible to make a real commitment to new renewable energy a boost in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1466	Today, there is a broad consensus that climate change is a major common global challenge of our time. However, it has been the scourge of environmental policy that political attention to environmental problems has shifted between doomsday prophecies and oblivion. In the 1970s, there was the food shortage that threatened. Today there is a race to use agricultural land to grow biofuels for our cars. Environmental problems can only be solved through sustainable development, by successfully combining economic growth in terms of the natural limits set for off-takes and emissions. That is why we must not just get the world's largest economy, the United States, involved in binding international climate work. It must also cover the new large and growing economies of China, India and Brazil. They must get our help to jump over the polluting stages of Western countries in their economic development. This must be the perspective of Bali. Then it will be a little special to follow the use of words in this debate. In a country where the energy supply is based on nearly 100 pst. clean, renewable electricity, uses the representative Kvassheim as expression that the situation is unsustainable and that there is a need to do something drastic. The sustainability principle requires environmental costs to be reflected in the energy price, as the allowance system foresees. But here the opposition is fighting to subsidize new energy. Before the Prime Minister launched the Government's ambition that Norway should be CO2 neutral, through cuts in its own emissions and the purchase of allowances in other countries, no one would have been near such an objective. Now the opposition claims that 2050 is scandalous for a long time. The Progress Party, which is still proposing a large cut in the electricity charge, is now pushing and calling it a blunder that we have not introduced green certificates, which are actually a different name for charging electricity. The representative Holten Hemdal said in his statement that the measures against climate change should start a long time ago. Yes, that recognition should be reflected in the opposition's attitude and use of words. For that start, the current opposition could have taken place from its position, in 1997 and from 2001. Both the Christian People's Party and the Left have actually had government power for 15 of the last 40 years. If we are to approach sustainable development, many and noticeable changes are required. However, if environmental policy and climate challenges are not to be shifted from justified fear of the future to oblivion again, I believe that as politicians we should strive for a more sustainable approach to these issues. It's easy to set bold targets. It's far more demanding to reach them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1486	I'm sorry for my little outburst. It was involuntary, but it was the plug that went, and that's very good. The representative of Kristiansen from the Right earlier today, as I see it, hoped for the international efforts of the Minister for the Environment. I think that's actually going over the line, and I think he should apologize for that, but it might also have a connection with that when you look at those who do a job internationally, a very few find – if any – right-wing people in those circles. There is no new course, said the representative Kvassheim from the Left. Well, rhetorically one should well say that then the representative Kvassheim should be satisfied, because then it must be Bondevik's course he uses. And then Kvassheim was Secretary of State at the Prime Minister's office. Snow White and Kårstø are driven by the Workers' Party, he said. I guess there are people in Finnmark and Rogaland who are happy about it. I think the rest of Norway's population can be happy that the Workers' Party has been the party that has developed Norway for what it is today. I remember the debate on green certificates very well. I remember the former oil and energy minister calling the fractional leader of the Workers' Party, who was me, and saying that she got nothing to do with Sweden, but if we could not fight around it, because they didn't seem to get to the goal, but they were going to keep working on it. We loyally followed. I also remember that the previous government would cut the lime. The previous government sent the fall-back institute at a three-month hearing, but was forced by a majority on the Stortinget to withdraw it. I remember that they were against using hot water from Snow White and leading it to land for food development. I also remember that they were against the fact that the industry would gain power at competitive prices, and – to Kvassheim – I am not sure whether the voters in Saudi Arabia and Karmøy agreed. I remember that they cut in the gyro fight, and they didn't follow up on the message of cultural memories. But we in the Workers' Party have made an effort that we are proud of. We have received the climate emissions into the pollution law, we have introduced the CO2 tax, we have pushed forward an agreement with the Norwegian industry that has led to a reduction of 30 pst. by the climate emissions, we have created Enova, and we have pushed the Government to create Gassnova. Now we're going to continue that work in relation to doing something about the clean-up of CO2, and we have every reason to be proud of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1509	I'm glad I came after the representative Klungland. When he's talking about cuts in the liming, it was just once. The Bondevik government provided the last period four budgets with reduced liming allocations. The only time a budget with reduced liming appropriations was when the Workers' Party had to support the budget. This did not happen in the three other years when the Progress Party ensured an increase in the liming allocations. I'll say a little about the forest that I didn't get to say before. Each year it is harvested approx. 11 million. m3 in Norway. It could be done 18 million. m3. And then we're left with seven million. m3, or 14 TW renewable energy. This is also what we're talking about when we're talking about the protection policy that the government might or might not want to base its policy – I'm still not wise about it. But the Progress Party is at least very pleased that the Living Forest Standard has been introduced in Norway. Among other things, we can do that. Thanks to an aggressive and targeted environmental movement for, but also a cooperative forest industry. Then, of course, the Progress Party will go a long way in supporting voluntary protection. However, voluntary protection also contributes to 20-30 pst in some areas in Norway. the potential access to action threatened by protection, if any. But now there is no problem that the access to work in Trøndelag and in Helgeland is threatened by protection, because there the government intends to let the forest industry disappear anyway. Power situation in Central Norway and other framework conditions – NOx tax, etc. – makes the situation look very black for Norwegian Forest in Forest. The representatives Lars Peder Breck and Ola Borten Moe will then force gas pipes to Skogn, reports the Address Paper on 20 November. The next day, the Workers' Party's Torny Pedersen says that the central part of the game can delay Skarv – there is a full war in the government and is set for dishwashing. Yesterday, state councilman Åslaug Haga replied that gas sales are based on common commercial principles and negotiations. What is the government's industrial policy, to which Terje Lien Aasland so well refers, is certainly not good to say. What is absolutely fireproof is that the government's top leader, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, promises to help the municipality of Levanger if – and this is the industrial policy of the Government – Norwegian Forest shuts down the paper factory in Skogn. Work in the Forest will then be assisted, but not prior to closure. This is the reality. Terje Lien Aasland points out that the Progress Party will not make demands on industry. Well, the Progress Party will make demands on the industry, because demands lead to a cleaner industry. But taxes do not lead to cleaner industry, which leads to more money in the state fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1543	The left will focus on the importance of an ambitious environmental policy with the aim of ensuring the basis of life for future generations in all parts of the world and creating equivalent opportunities for all. Environmental policy is to take account of long-term impacts on the environment, although pollution and over-exploitation of resources can bring short-term benefits. The left wants a forward-looking and ambitious environmental policy. Norway shall be a leading country and contribute to finding solutions for other countries as well. Globally, we face three main challenges: greenhouse gas emissions, pollutants and biodiversity loss. Norway has a national responsibility to be at the forefront of all these environmental challenges, and this requires new radical action. We have seen a number of examples of pilot projects in renewable energy at risk of moving abroad because there is no support for such projects in Norway. I'm going to bring forward the Tidewater Power Plant to Hammerfest Stroem as an example. This is a very good renewable energy production project, which has now been flagged abroad because Norway is lagging behind in this work. It is therefore incomprehensible that the Government has not shown its willingness to contribute to this type of development project. I have to add that today we have received the positive news that the Government is resuming talks with Sweden on green certificates, a scheme that will help trigger a new renewable energy production based on more mature technologies. This is good. In terms of biodiversity conservation work, the Government fails. There is widespread concern about the lack of appropriations for the control of the salmon parasite Gyrodactylus salaris. Live salmon rivers are important for the conservation of biodiversity and for the settlement and travel of rural areas. Norway has a special responsibility to manage our unique wild breeds. In the case of escaped farmed salmon, we also have a great job to do. There is great concern about the large emissions of soot from the gas torch at StatoilHydros plant on Melkøya outside Hammerfest. The torch was lit on 21 August this year and a report from the SFT shows that carcinogens have been detected in the smoke from the plant. It is also foreseen that the installation will generate record high emissions of greenhouse gases, which the Government has given a clear signal by granting an extended emissions permit to the installation, from 15000 tonnes of CO2 to 200000 tonnes of CO2 through flare. This decision is completely incomprehensible, and you have to ask yourself if the government was conscious at the moment of action. This can't possibly be the environmental standard we're going to put on in the further activity in the Barents Sea. I would strongly urge the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Oil and Energy to deal with this matter. Much more stringent requirements must be imposed on oil companies. If not, it's a rather embarrassing affair that we participate with the index finger at Bali while experiencing record high emissions here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1564	Carnivores are engaged. If you want more, it'll get involved if you want fewer. Some people don't want anyone at all, while others want unlimited predators. So this way, we're never going to agree on the number that should be right. As a district representative from Hedmark, with hunters, bufferers, small children's families or anyone around me, I see predators are reducing our quality of life. They simply create anxiety and fear. Hunters dare not let go and use their dogs, buffers must have the animals at home as much as possible, toddlers' parents dare not let their children play wherever they want, etc. etc. That is, we live on the predators ’ premises. The predator I'm thinking about specifically is the wolf. Even though there are you guys, bears and gloats, the wolf is the one that creates the most fear. The other ones are going to live with, in a smaller number. In a newspaper article a while ago, we could read that the municipality of Elverum resembles a wolf reserve. All 14 wolves were observed. It's no wonder that this creates fear. A wolf count in a slightly larger area could record almost 30 pieces. It goes without saying that e.g. the operation of sheep on the outingbed does not become applicable. No matter what you do, no matter what you get the support, the predator damage will be great. The wolf must have food, and it will leave your dining area. It is therefore necessary to grant exit permits according to the wishes of this area. Something else would be saying that here only predators should be. This is simply about district policy. When the nutritional basis is marginal, the gifts of nature are important, too important to destroy predators. As a frontier country, Hedmark, like many more counties, is particularly badly placed, because Sweden has an even more liberal predatory policy than Norway. Here the numbers are a lot higher, and many of these are border animals, i.e. they are on the one day on the Swedish side and the next on the Norwegian side. This is to a great degree frustrating on the Norwegian side. I hope that the Council of State will look at this problem and make Sweden realize that a large Swedish predator tribe is a major problem for Norway. This is about the quality of life and whether one should be able to live in the future from buffs and what nature can provide from hunting opportunities and other experiences. This determines whether people will also be able to live in the districts in the future. Otherwise, I might be tempted to ask the question: Where is the Center Party, as one of the government parties, in this matter? There have been many promises from the Government, but where is the result? It must then be possible to understand that a large number of predators will not be able to be combined with e.g. buff team and the good quality of life of people. It may seem that only the Progress Party understands the consequences of a failed predatory policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1579	Torbjørn Andersen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1583	It was the representative Svein Roald Hansen who said that green certificates are a ‘charge on electricity’. This is a little bit misleading. The scheme is essentially based on the fact that a certain proportion of electricity production is subject to a higher price. This will make it attractive to invest in a certain power generation, and it will in turn lead to more electricity entering the market, and we will have a lower price level in general in the market. In this way, it is actually so that green certificates could lower electricity prices for end-users. The red-green government started fresh when it joined, and promised to get these green certificates in place – but we know how it went. The red-greens would also put in place a power regime for the powerful industry – we know how it went. The red-green government was going to give us the greatest investment in bioenergy in the world of time, providing support schemes that were even better than green certificates, it was said – but we know how it went. Today, Norway has Europe's worst renewable energy support schemes. I was about to say, is there anything to brag about?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1590	: A few comments on the article from the Tord Line of the Progress Party – first NOx: After the powerful attacks on the Center Party in this case and his description of reality, I think it's important to say how we perceive the situation. Negotiations are now under way on NOx funds between the State and the industries which will require funds to be used for environmental action. The aim of the centre party is that these negotiations should result in the setting up of environmental funds for industry. The center party thinks it's a good idea to use fund solutions, get more focus on the environment, between the state and the industries. So a little comment on what's going on in forestry: the representative Tord Lien says that the Progress Party is busy with active forestry around the country. So is the Center Party. Why, then, does the Progress Party, through its policy of removing capital from forestry industries? After all, a large part of forestry is driven by active farmers and forest users. This is a group that downgrades the Progress Party. If one is to have an active forestry around the country, there must also be capital to operate forests and to build infrastructure around forestry. That's what I'm asking the Progress Party to take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1603	The Minister for the Environment was humble enough to say that it is ‘possible that I remember errors’ about whether CO2 was on the political agenda of the Bondevik government. It's good with a humble government council sometimes, because at least I hope the council remembers that it was a government that went off on the gas power case. I hope that the Council of State remembers that a strategy was put forward to push the technology for gas power plants in terms of CO2, a strategy that contained four key elements: state aid for technology and production development, investment aid for a full scale gas power plant with CO2 management, the establishment of a state innovation company and State participation investigations in the development of CO2 infrastructure. This was done. The petroleum sector accounts for 1/4 of our climate emissions. We have a great responsibility globally, too, like the great exporter we are of oil and gas. Unfortunately, in the government’s Climate Change Communication, this sector has been exempted from participating in climate action in relation to the challenges we face. Therefore, it is important for the Christian People's Party to be on hand to obtain an electrification of the socket, not at any cost, as the representative Torny Pedersen claimed in his post, but in a holistic way. That is why we have been busy putting 30 TWh in place by 2014 in new renewable energy. For the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, there are clear messages, and one of them is that in 2015 we need a reduction in greenhouse gases, if we are to be able to reverse the trend we are in now. The intervention of the representative Marthinsen is an article that delights a Christian People's Party-heart. The representative, Mr Marthinsen, spoke of political will. Yes, because in Norway we have the money, we have the heads to develop technology, and it's about a political will and about showing leadership. That is why the Christian People's Party, together with the Left and Right, has set ambitious targets and also proposed ambitious measures to achieve these objectives of becoming climate-neutral by 2020. We have been reluctant to take some major national reductions in relation to climate change emissions, but we have also shown in a comprehensive policy that action needs to be taken, and that has to be money on the table. Without this, it does not keep up with political will either.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1624	I thank the representative, Andersen, for the introduction into the functioning of green certificates. It's like that on paper, but what we've learned is that when there's more expensive energy coming into a market that's gradually becoming European, it's pulling the price up, because here in Norway we've had so much cheaper energy through cheap electricity. That's what makes our hydropower so valuable, because it's not priced according to the cost of producing it, but it's priced according to the most expensive flow in the market. That's why the contradictions are so strong. The progress party wants to cut the electricity charge, which should make the flow cheaper. But it will counteract what Andersen is after with green certificates. The reason we're struggling to get new types of renewable energy into the market is because the energy price is too low, so it's not profitable, and then it's completely wrong way to cut the tax to make the flow cheaper. This is where the Progress Party shows its famous Janus face. When you talk to a congregation, you have to talk it out of the mouth, then it's lower charges. When you talk here and you want to be environmentally friendly, you talk differently. It is gratifying that the Progress Party has discovered that the greenhouse effect has nothing to do with gardening, but the attempt to become environmentally friendly falls on its own unfairness. It is the Kyoto Agreement that is the platform for the work currently in progress on committing international cooperation to address climate change emissions. That agreement was opposed to the Progress Party. It is this agreement that needs to be built on and improved through the negotiations in Bali and towards the Copenhagen Summit in 2009. I want to mention that we should be pleased that we have a cooperation organisation in Europe called the EU, which has taken on a leading role in this work, and which could be the one that also gets the United States, China, Japan and Brazil into the same platform. Without the role that the EU has taken in climate action, international climate action would have been in serious difficulties and likely to be in the grips.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1633	The representative Tord Lien has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1636	I find reason to take the floor on the basis of what the representative Sande said in his last post. If the centre party believes what they say about the NOx fee, I assume that it will be taken care of, and that it will be fixed, preferably before Christmas. Then we'll see if it's possible to trust the Center Party or not. But I think that if what you said was meant, you would have removed the tax decision for 2008, and then you would rather have left it up to the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Finance to find a solution. So to this with the forest industry. Where the Progress Party and the Center Party are genuinely in agreement, the initiative is for new industries in Norwegian districts. It's e.g. hydropower generation, not by taxation, but by providing good conditions, and that is the forest industry. Forest industries have been exporting timber from Norway for 1000 years, and subsidies have never been needed. Good framework conditions and support for infrastructure have been needed. Here I believe and hope that the Progress Party and the Center Party agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1648	First a comment to Svein Roald Hansen, who obviously did not understand what pricing in the power market is all about. Power producers see the market price. Consumers see the market price plus taxes plus taxes. By reducing the electricity charge, there is nothing to do with the incentives for power producers to invest in new power, but one helps power consumers who experience sky-high power prices to reduce the financial burden due to the use of electricity. Svein Roald Hansen thinks I'm wrong, so I challenge him to come up and talk about it. If not, I assume he himself admits his fault. So back to the introduction Torbjørn Andersen had, where he challenged the Government on a number of points, but has only been met with a wall of silence – and instead lots of self-crust. One talks about his own ambitions, but he's cutting down on the opposition's actions. This testifies to cynical rhetoric over powerful politicians. I ask government members to clarify: Is the fall-back system secure? The industry does not feel that way. Yes, the government has made a play, but no one from ESA has said this has been approved. The matter has not been put to death. In this way, uncertainty is maintained, and we know that industry is concerned. Framework conditions for new gas power plants — what is it? Not least in view of the power situation in central Norway, it would have been essential to clarify it, when everyone says that one has to get quick solutions, and not least when LO, the main sponsor of this government, says that gas power plants are the only thing that can solve the crisis. CO2 quota allocation to Kårstø – what kind of framework conditions do they have? It's three and a half weeks to New Year's, and then the climate quota law comes into effect. Drag help for gas pipes to Grenland – yes, what kind of drag help has this government given, besides continuing the work already started? Has anyone done anything to speed up any process that was not already initiated by the Bondevik II government? When you talk about green certificates, will the government bring small power plants into the negotiations this time? The Soria Moria Declaration explicitly states that only micro- and mini-power plants, i.e. a very small part of Norwegian hydropower, are excluded from the Soria Moria Declaration. I challenge the Minister for the Environment, who at least has enough respect to sit in the hall and listen to right now, on the net sales of CO2 allowances. The question was asked. State councils spent all their time chatting with the Progress Party on an innocuous basis, but were not at all concerned with the question. The government has made up for the net sales of allowances. How does it affect world CO2 emissions? Peace Prize for Al Gore – I refer to article on research.no today, which shows that Norwegian researchers at NTNU cannot find a link between environment and peace. Finally, the ammonia factory of Yara on Her Island. Can a confirmation, as Mr Aasland has made in the media today, that they will receive CO2 allowances free of charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1679	The representative Solvik-Olsen remembered that it is three and a half weeks to New Year's. The President will remind you that the clock is two, and that we have two interviews left. There are enough people who want to come home during the evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1682	I agree with the President, but there are still some questions that one should get answers to. One central question, which is very concrete and easy to answer for the Progress Party, is: if one introduces green certificates, will the price of power go up, or will it go down? I think it's just the Progress Party that thinks it's going to lead to a fall in the electricity price, because that's actually a cost to be paid. Then I would like to say to the representative Holten Hemdal, who was up and pointed out that Bondevik chose to go off to build a gas power plant: Yes, I agree. In fact, gas became a religion in Norway — a religion in which we export jobs and import coal power. It seems difficult for the opposition parties to remember what they did in the last period. But this period has certainly all been on the Energy and Environment Committee, and then this government is doing what it can to clean the CO2 emissions in Mongstad and Kårstø. It has put in place an energy fund. We have changed the car charge, as we see a clear effect in the form of more environmentally friendly cars driving on the roads. This government has more than doubled the railway budget, and so this government has put forward the world's most ambitious policy. It's a change of course. Maybe the Right Party and the Advance Party don't like this government getting what they can't do or do, but it doesn't stand to believe that they're showering with the springs when they don't reach our toes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1694	First of all, a brief visit to the Progress Party. I think it was surprising to hear Torbjørn Andersen's posts here instead. I think it was great, because it showed that Torbjørn Andersen has been thinking about Bali to be inspired even more, and that he might even bring some inspiration there to others. It was surprising because it came from that team. At the same time, it is quite clear that Torbjørn Andersen has a crazy job to do in his own party to bring with him sizes like Carl I. Hagen, and very many others, who have not enriched themselves either in rhetoric or in concrete action. So it was Svein Roald Hansen who made me speak in relation to his view of the European Union. I have a few brief comments that I just want to make, since some people believe that the EU is an environmental driver in any context. We don't share that analysis in SV. Firstly, I would like to highlight this which goes on freedom of action, and it is quite clear now in connection with the Bali negotiations. Norway has a completely different opportunity to play an offensive and independent role than we would have had if we had been a member of the EU. In addition, I would like to refer to the European Agency for the Environment of the WWF, which has established the status of the EU ETS. They said it as follows: ‘Unfortunately, the authorities have given as far as the pressure from the industry that pollutes the most and introduces very weak restrictions on carbon emissions.’ Norway has also played a slightly different and more offensive role. Despite major environmental and safety problems, the EU maintains the Euratom Treaty, which promotes nuclear power. Over the next five years, the EU will spend 22 billion on nuclear research, money that could be spent on far more forward-looking actions and research. This is also more than three times as much as for research into renewable energy sources and energy efficiency improvement, and there is evidence of an appalling error in addressing climate problems. If we had been a member of the EU, we would have had to spend a good chance of spending money on the kind of research we're not for. It is also the case that the EU has significant transport challenges. The transport sector will hold up to 40 pst. increase until 2020 if no significant action is taken. And with its focus on free movement, transport will be a very big challenge for the EU, which they have to address in a completely different way from what they have done. Finally, in the case of democracy: nature and youth, it said roughly as follows: No to the EU national meeting: the EU does not give them the same opportunity as lobby organisations with a lot of money to reach. They do that in Norway, where there is availability and you don't need that much money to get in touch with politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1714	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1157]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1734	This interference is not an attempt to challenge the development of CO2 clean technologies. It is only a wish that the money we spend on behalf of society should be used as best as possible for the environment, for taxpayers and for Norwegian business. There is not a debate that Norwegian industry should be distributed no matter what solution they come with, but there is a debate on how to facilitate the Norwegian industry and the Norwegian research community to compete to become leading actors in the work that is taking place on Norwegian soil. The reason for this debate is the comment in the position of the Committee on Energy and the Environment on Mongstad. It says: ‘The Committee will therefore request the Government to pay attention to Norwegian technology development under EEA legislation.’ It is a matter of concern when one has subsequently seen Technical Weekly 31/07, and reads in the comments that foreign companies take control of Norwegian clean-up projects, and when one reads in the Evening Post on 11 April 2007 that ‘the Centre Party and SV provide the baffle with the choice of Norwegian technology, only CO2 capture on Kårstø as quickly as possible’, and where the then Energy Policy spokesman in the Center Party, Ola Borten Moe, says that the most important thing is cleaning as quickly as possible. ‘If the Norwegian industry is not able to deliver solutions as quickly as foreign ones, it is mainly embarrassing for them’, he goes on to say. It gives signals that are not in line with what the Stortinget has said and that are also not in favour of Norwegian business. If we want Norway to be among the foremost in the development of CO2 clean technologies, we also need to facilitate the participation of Norwegian businesses. Norwegian players should be central, not just the Norwegian money. If you're going to have some chances of a commercial success here, you have to be early on developing both robust and cost-effective technologies. In this case, absolute deadlines cannot be set as the most important premise in this case, but flexibility must be demonstrated so that one can choose among the best solutions. Given that the Kyoto Agreement opens the way for widespread use of allowances trading, hardly any country would be willing to invest in gas-fired CO2 before this becomes more cost-effective than the purchase of allowances and/or to take other emission measures. It is really worth a debate in itself whether Norway should not be investing in the clean-up of coal power in cooperation with other countries, but I will leave that debate. When Stortinget dealt with the Mongstad case, the Committee, as I said, stressed the importance of facilitating Norwegian business to the extent that the EEA Agreement allows. The scheme of the government has not done this. The media releases show that Norwegian actors are not in the main seat. Instead, foreign competitors benefit from testing the technology. Thus, Norwegian taxpayers are used to subsidise foreign industry at the expense of Norwegian companies. It is, of course, a paradox when it comes to an explicit goal of Norway being world leader in this area. This isn't just the Progress Party saying. This is expressed by LO, from the Norwegian industry and from a lot of actors in a letter to the Government, and I am sure the Council of State knows about it. These are also statements from, for example: Knut Aaneland in Norsk Industrie in Technische Ukeblad 33/07, where he asks the politicians to take the floor. He says, ‘We cannot allow Japanese and French people to develop their technology at the expense of Norwegian companies in Norway’... ‘Government and Ministry of Foreign Companies’... ‘shut to solve CO2 challenges without Norwegian technology environments, research or supplier industries. Where is the industrial thinking?’ And he goes on to say, ‘I’m disappointed, but I’m not giving up. The hope is, of course, that someone takes the sense prisoner and gets with Norwegian technology and research environments. It is strange that Sintef is set to lead the EU's work on CO2 capture and landfilling, while at home they have been excluded from the largest state development project so far. This is not a policy promoting Norwegian technology and industry». Leading CO2 researcher in Sintef, Nils A. Søkke, says in Technical Weekly 31/07 that the foreign dominance of Kårstø and Mongstad ‘may be a mercy blow for Norwegian CO2 clean technology’. And on the other hand, ‘If Norwegian technology environments do not participate in the purification of these gas power plants, it may put an end to the development of Norwegian CO2 technology. Of course, it would be very difficult for Norwegian companies to get into projects abroad without having a reference facility. Who wants to purchase an installation that is not qualified for projects in the home country?" There are examples of Norwegian companies that want to be part of this. Since 2005, Aker Kværner has worked with 13 partners on the Just Catch project. This shall remove CO2 in addition to increasing the power of the gas power plant. Aker Kværner has said many times that they can have a test facility for the gas power plant at Kårstø ready in 2009. According to information manager Stein Inge Liasjö in Aker Kværner, in that case a decision is urgent. To the Haugesunds Avis on October 20th, he says, ‘This is new work, and a full-scale clean-up plant has not yet been built anywhere in the world. Our idea is that it must be an advantage to start a test facility on Kårstø as quickly as possible. The gas power plant is there and is in operation.» The company works with SINTEF and NTNU on the development of a chemical solution to capture CO2. Based on this, Aker Kværner says that they can join us and put in place a full-scale sewage treatment plant at Mongstad in 2013. Ergo: Pilot plants are built on Kårstø, gain experience and can accelerate the process at Mongstad in 2013. But there's no reason to think they're going to make it in 2012, which is the government's demand. Sargas is the other company that has been in Norway for a long time. They have had a concession request together with Hammerfest Energia about a CO2-free gas power plant in Hammerfest, and they received a strange enough rejection from the Government. At the Houses they work together with industrial environments to build coal-fired power plants with CO2 cleaning and deliver power prices of about 30 cents, if they succeed. They have wanted to connect to the CO2 chain pipe to be from Kårstø and Mongstad, but have not managed to have a dialogue in this area. The most eye-catching thing about Sargas is the price. They're assuming they're going to get about 100 kroner per. tonne, one seventh of what is planned on Kårstø. They have test facilities in Sweden, but they feel frozen in the Norwegian process. So Norwegian players are standing outside both Mongstad and Kårstø. According to the Technical Weeksheet, Alstom has signed an agreement to set up a full scale installation. On Kårstø there are four companies on the list, where Aker Kværner is mentioned, but Ola Rønning, who is CO2 project manager appointed by the Government, says that their technology is not mature. You can just imagine, even if they're allowed to apply, it's a little hard to get there when they don't have mature technology. The reason why I also bring this up for debate is not only that I believe that Storting's intentions have not been followed up by the Government, but it is also the oil and energy minister's reactions when I address this on written questions. When I asked for Norwegian participation, was the answer that StatoilHydro in Mongstad is a Norwegian company, and can it become more Norwegian than that? But it has never been meant at any time to be StatoilHydro that develops the CO2 cleaning plant itself. It's research environment and companies specializing in it. Such a response from the Council of State rather illustrated that Norwegian companies were poorly placed on the technology side. On the NRK news today, however, I heard a little new tones. I take it as a happy response to this interpellation, just as it suddenly became activity in the Government when a few weeks ago I had an interpellation about the biomembrane – and it's nice. The government is now giving signals that companies with untapped technology will also participate in the competition. The Council of State's play is in this way a step in the right direction, but that is not enough. It is not enough for a person to be allowed to join in and apply if he is unable to meet the deadline set by the Government and on which they have doubts. If, on the other hand, the government also tells them to show flexibility, so that it does, for example. is the CO2 emissions from Norway over a ten-year period, which will be indicative, and not the annual emissions, which the Government now premises, we have reached an agreement with which the Progress Party will be very pleased. The government must therefore show greater openness and flexibility so that the business community in Norway can play a leading role in this work and not just become a passive spectator. Let's think a little bit about what we're talking about here. We're primarily talking about the development of CO2 clean technology. If cleaning at Kårstø and Mongstad had been important for cleaning the world's CO2 emissions as much as possible, then – and I think everyone will recognize this – a much greater result would have been achieved by using the money elsewhere. It's because this is a CO2 clean technology development project, that it's exciting, and that you're all behind you. Although the costs of the first installations are expensive, it should nevertheless be noted that at least the Norwegian business community has a chance to compete. And if it turns out, against assumption, that Sargas's technology doesn't work, and that Aker Kværner doesn't do it, but that Fluor or Mitsubishi do it, then I'll be the first to say that it's Fluor and Mitsubishi who are going to get this job. But they must not get the job because as politicians, we have almost disqualified the Norwegian industry from participating in the competition by setting deadlines that are not possible for them to follow up. When Norwegian taxpayers are to use billions to finance this, Norwegian jobs should also be able to see a gain.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e1860	I appreciate the commitment of the representative Solvik-Olsen. And then you'll understand, after I've kept my post, that the interpellation is kind of taken over by the events. But now let me put this into context. The government has set ambitious targets for CO2 management. Norwegian efforts in the field of CO2 capture and storage must be seen as an important contribution to addressing climate challenges. In its analyses, the International Energy Agency shows that as much as 20-28 pst. CO2 emissions of the world may be reduced by means of CO2 capture and storage. The government has delivered according to its ambitions, and there are several projects in parallel: 1. Full scale cleaning on Kårstø2. development of a CO2 capture test centre at Mongstad.3. full scale CO2 handling in Mongstad4. transport and storage solutions for CO2 A State-owned company, Gassnova SF, was established in July 2007. This State enterprise will take over the practical responsibility for all the CO2 management projects currently being worked on. An important objective is to further develop Norwegian competence so that Norway can become a leader in CO2 management. Through the activity of Sleipner and Snow White, Norway already has significant competence in the separation and storage of CO2 related to petroleum production. Furthermore, several Norwegian actors are working with exciting technologies for CO2 capture. The long-term commitment to research and technology development through the CLIMIT programme and Gassnova facilitates the further development of knowledge and competences related to CO2 capture and storage technologies in Norway. At Kårstø we can both cut significant emissions of CO2 and gain important technological experience. With the construction of a CO2 capture plant on Kårstø, the Government will make an important contribution to further developing knowledge of CO2 capture and scaling up such technologies. The development of cost-effective technologies is essential for CO2 capture to be a good instrument in the fight against global warming. We will also gain experience in the transport and storage of captured CO2. I would like to inform the Norwegian Government that the Government has recently established criteria for the prequalification of suppliers to build a CO2 capture plant at the gas power plant on Kårstø. The basis of qualification is designed to allow players with different maturity technologies to pre-qualify. This means that both Norwegian and foreign operators can notify their interest. I believe that the scheme contributes to good opportunities for ambitious technology suppliers. We want to facilitate the development of a wide supply market in CO2 capture. The deadline for notifying an interest is January 2008. The government hopes that many will contribute to an exciting technology development. It underlines that quality requirements will be equally high seas if we give wide access to seek to qualify for the next round to compete for the assignment. Through the principles underlying the prequalification of Kårstø, we will now gain more precise knowledge of when the different technology suppliers, both Norwegian and foreign, will be able to deliver the CO2 capture plant and how they believe this can best be done. The reporting of interest by many potential suppliers and the need for a closer review of the relatively less mature technologies will involve higher planning costs than that foreseen in the 2008 State budget. In particular, it will be important to obtain pre-projecting studies, so-called FEED studies, from a wide range of technology suppliers. In the 2008 state budget, it is estimated that there is a need of 165 million. kr for the planning and pre-projecting of CO2 capture on Kårstø. The overall need for funding is uncertain. We do not know today how many pre-project studies, i.e. these FEED studies, that we will have to carry out in the further planning and procurement process. This will only become clear in January 2008, when the deadline for notifying itself as a potential supplier for the expansion of the Kårstø plant expires. If more suppliers than originally assumed are involved in the further procurement process, this is likely to result in increased costs during the planning phase. The government will return to Stortinget with an information on the status and progress of the projects at the latest in the revised national budget. If there's a need to do it earlier, we'll come back in an appropriate way. Last autumn, the State and StatoilHydro entered into an agreement to develop CO2 management in Mongstad. Development will take place in two stages. Work is currently under way on the establishment of a test centre for CO2 capture. Furthermore, it is planned that a full-scale CO2 handling facility will be in place in 2014. A cooperation agreement has been concluded between the Ministry of Oil and Energy, DONG Energy, Shell, StatoilHydro and Vattenfall on the work of the testing centre at Mongstad. The cooperation agreement regulates the planning and preparation of CO2 capture test facilities and will run until the investment decision of the test centre in 2008. The State and StatoilHydro are obliged to continue the project after the investment decision, while the other parties will decide at the time of the investment decision. Cooperation between the state and industrial companies in Mongstad is a milestone in the implementation of CO2 management. The aim is to develop solutions that can reduce costs and technical and economic risks associated with full scale CO2 capture. This allows us to contribute to a reduction in costs sufficient to make capture and storage an attractive global climate action. If we achieve this, Norway will have made a significant contribution to the fight against global climate change. It is suggested that two different technology types should be tested in Mongstad. Within one type of technology, amine technology, e.g. Aker Kværner is a strong candidate. In the second type of technology, carbon technology, there are currently no Norwegian actors involved in a project such as in Mongstad. I believe that Norwegian industry has good opportunities to compete for participation in Mongstad. In parallel with the work on developing technologies to capture CO2, it is absolutely central that we also provide solutions for transport and storage of CO2. In 2006, the Ministry of Oil and Energy commissioned Gassnova, Gassco, Norway’s Watercourse and Energy Directorate and the Oil Directorate to assess possible transport and storage solutions in which CO2 from Kårstø and Mongstad are seen in the context. The project will run until 1 March 2008 and shall form the basis for the decision of the authorities on the choice of means of transport and disposal. Norwegian research and industrial environments already have important experience in storing CO2 in underwater formations. Further work on CO2 storage solutions from gas power generation will contribute to further challenges for Norwegian industry. So finally, the notification to ESA. High attention has been paid to State aid-related issues related to the Norwegian CO2 management projects. As I briefed on in the EEA Committee, there is no doubt that the processes ongoing in relation to these first projects of their kind in Europe are demanding. I would also like to point out the importance of State aid law when it comes to the participation of different companies in the CO2 management processes. There is no doubt that competition between operators is an important element of a State aid assessment. Specific solutions without effective competition would hardly fit into the current legal framework of State aid. I believe that the CO2 management projects in Norway together facilitate further development of Norwegian technology and competence, and believe in Norwegian industrial participation throughout the CO2 capture, transport and storage chain. The qualification basis for CO2 capture at Kårstø implies that both Norwegian and foreign operators compete on the same basis. It is a clear wish that Norwegian CO2 management efforts should contribute to Norwegian industry building up the necessary skills and becoming competitive with regard to low-carbon technologies. Today, there are too few suppliers of CO2 handling facilities that there is real competition in the market. An important instrument to reduce fishing costs is to have this real competition. If Norwegian industry is prepared to compete in this competition, large market opportunities will also open up internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2044	I'm a little more reassured now than I was when I wrote the interpellation. But I don't want to go so far as to say that the interpellation has almost been taken over by the events. What the Council of State says is that the criteria are such that players with different maturity technologies are able to pre-qualify. And that makes Aker Kværner want a chance to apply, even if they haven't proven or tested the technology. When Aker Kværner himself says that they will be able to have a full-scale plant in Mongstad at the earliest in 2013, I would assume that it is not possible to get it earlier on Kårstø, because it will be of the same type. The Council of State would open up the possibility of a slight shift towards deadlines in Kårstø if, overall, CO2 emissions were increased in 2012 compared to having Fluorine, for example. to build a sewage treatment plant already then, if, nevertheless, a better solution can be easily commercialised, and certainly with Norwegian technology from Aker Kværner or Sargas, and yet one will have that flexibility, so that the global long-term potential for CO2 emissions becomes important, and not the one-year point emission? I would like the Council of State to say a little bit about it. I also want the Council of State to say a little more about Mongstad, because in Technical Weekly – now I am not going to guarantee that they are right – one suggests at least that Statoil and Alstom have signed a commitment agreement where both parties express intentions to build a full-scale plant with capacity to clean up 2 million tonnes of CO2. If there is a basis and such an agreement has already been signed, what kind of opportunities will e.g. Aker Kværner and Sargas have to participate in a real competition? In a way, it seems that the possibility of competing then limits itself to Kårstø, and for Kårstø there is a deadline that is too short for Aker Kværner to be able to participate. Will one actively go out and also encourage Sargas to apply, a company that, after conversations we have had with them at least, feels that they have almost been waved away when they have wanted contact with the bureaucracy? The last thing I want to challenge the state council is pilot plants. Aker Kværner has said that one must be successful in CO2 cleaning, one must have tested the technology before using it in a full-scale plant. They have been willing to build a pilot plant on Kårstø themselves as soon as possible, which can accelerate the project in Mongstad. One might get a little postponement on Kårstø, but speed up the project at Mongstad. Already by doing so, a compensater for any increased CO2 emissions by not having full-scale facilities at Kårstø from 2012. Would you consider this scheme to show flexibility, not just by allowing people to search, but to realize a pilot plant on Kårstø as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2070	At least I'm glad that I've been able to use my 10 minutes to do the interpellant something calmer than before. That's good. I feel that at the bottom of this, there is a common objective to contribute to the development of Norwegian technology in this area, which could be important in Norway, but which, not least, could also be important internationally. It was just to be lacking that, with our experience and competence in these fields, we would not be able to contribute to wise, environmental choices internationally, but also, where appropriate, to build industrial activities around them at home. As far as the Kårstø scheme is concerned in the first instance – let me take it for granted – we take into account, on the basis of the criteria for prequalification that have now been presented, that we should follow the same timetable as in the past. This means that we will have a basis for an investment decision from Gassnova before 1 September 2009 and that an investment decision will be taken in autumn 2009. When it comes to start-up, we use the same timeframes that we have had in the past and that we have mentioned in particular. the budgetary document which has been discussed here in the Chamber earlier today, namely that the Kårstø plant will start at the earliest in 2011/2012. With regard to the process ahead, we will give the different actors that are now reporting relatively short time to report. In that process, they will then present what technology they see to be using, and what time frames they are able to operate within. So there's to be a selection after that. I do not dare to state what the further process will be like. What we've arranged for now is to get more actors involved. There will be more competition. We want to make sure that the immature technologies can also be included in the assessments later on. In the case of Mongstad – I am sorry that I do not have a full overview of what is in the Technical Weekly – our starting point is that Aker Kværner will have good opportunities to participate in the development work there as well. If there are others who are able to contribute, there will also be opening for it. This process will go normally, and we look forward to bringing good Norwegian candidates into that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2087	Although it is now Friday afternoon, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for the opportunity to thank the Government and the Council of State for the work that has been done to ensure – as Solvik-Olsen rightly points out – that an aggregate increase has been committed to Norwegian technology development at Kårstø. We've been well aware that the government has always really wanted that. This is a matter that has taken us into consideration. In particular, we in the Workers' Party have been committed to Norwegian technology development as a national meeting case. It is important to note that participation in Norwegian Kårstø technology and the possibility of prequalification are granted equal access in principle and in principle. It's a pleasure. It is this Norwegian industry and knowledge environments in a way that have also been in demand, and it is now open to this. We should be very happy about that, because I think there is a lot of forward-looking and good development in that very thing. I also believe that, within the timescales that exist and that the Council of State has underlined, there should be an opening for Norwegian industry to participate, despite the fact that a prequalification opens. The clear message that has come from, among others, Aker Kværner – since this has been withdrawn here – is that they should meet the timetable set for Kårstø, if they are given the opportunity to participate in the plant and are given the opportunity to pre-qualify. In conclusion, not to make the debate too long: Having heard Ketil Solvik-Olsen’s last speech, I am somewhat in doubt about the intention of the Progress Party: Is the intention to take care of Norwegian industry – which I hope and believe – one might have earned that one should not have detailed investigations about timetables and about deviations that might have to occur. I think we should be very pleased with the clarification that the Council of State now gave to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2100	First of all, I would like to say that I am pleased that the representative Solvik-Olsen addresses today's interpellation. I think it is necessary, and it is entirely in line with what a unanimous committee set up in the context of the decision on the CO2 technology project in Mongstad. There is no doubt that the interpellant is quite right in terms of the conditions he takes up. Here, there are so many cross-cutting interests that, in time, difficulties in being reconciled, that it is very timely that this interpellation is now being addressed. In fact, like the interpellant, I was calmed down somewhat after hearing the Council's response. It was in many ways very reassuring. There is no doubt that here we are faced with a expressed desire to reach the goal quickly. I think we all share that desire. At the same time, developments in this area have shown that we need to adjust the speed of the terrain we're in, combined with the objective that here we're really going to be able to develop Norwegian technology, which is going to be world-leading. It should not in any way be at the expense of and be exclusive to foreign actors, but it should not be such that we get a project plan that runs at a pace that, with the opposite favor, can seem almost exclusive to Norwegian companies. When I underline this, it's precisely by reference to the events of the last days with the Snow White plant on Melkøya. Speeding gears may become loading gears on this issue. Evolution has shown that we have to have an ambitious pace and an ambitious development, but it has to be high-quality. With the words and information that the Council of State has given here, that you do not at all add up to a pace and development that is at the expense of quality, and that will not seem exclusive to Norwegian participation, I look forward to developments in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2118	The Christian People's Party believes it is right to be committed to facilitating technology development in the handling and storage of CO2. Such a strategy is necessary to avoid a lasting increase in emissions of Norwegian greenhouse gases. It has been the Christian People's Party's policy all along. That's why we have also said no to grant concession to gas power plants without CO2 cleaning, and then to support R & D, so that we can develop new technologies. In 2008, which is not that long, we're going into the Kyoto period, and we're going to overfill it with a 10 pst reduction. during the period. We have the Prime Minister's word on that. It is also important to stress that we face some challenges in this area when, in some decisions, we facilitate a policy that will increase CO2 emissions. The Christian People's Party believes that a commitment to CO2 management can provide good solutions for the Norwegian gas industry, but it can also be an important international contribution in terms of CO2 emissions from coal power plants. Such technology development, which we are discussing today, will help provide opportunities for a new industrial development, and it will also give Norwegian companies and technology access to a large international market. Competition is healthy in terms of technology development. There are methods in other countries that may be used here, and then we can come up with other Norwegian solutions that can also be used outside the world in general. One of the challenges in relation to the issue we are discussing today is scaling up in relation to the management of technology. During the hearing that we had on the matter, it was underlined from the technological environments that a scale-up beyond the tricycle is difficult technologically. The Council of State today says there should be two test facilities. At the hearing, it was about two or three. Now you've landed on two. That is to say 50000 tonnes in each test facility. Then the scaling becomes pretty big when we're going up to a full-scale sewage treatment plant. Me and the Christian People's Party have been constantly concerned about how this should work, while at the same time being able to be where we need to be in 2012, in order to take the necessary decisions on investments in full-scale operating facilities. This Christian People's Party has been worried all along, and we have taken it up with the former oil and energy minister. I'm still worried, also a little bit about the headlines we've seen about what's happening on Snow White. This is new technology, and we may not know exactly where to go. What has been crucial and important for the Christian People's Party is the development of test facilities and full scale CO2 management in parallel with the expansion of the gas power plant. It will be difficult to keep the timetable, but it must be kept in line with the other international obligations we have in relation to the Kyoto Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2151	I would first like to make a comment to the representative of Aasland, who expressed doubts about my intentions. I think it's almost a little unfine, all the time the Progress Party has had a very clear line on this all the way. He said we need to avoid details, for example. of 2012. However, it is precisely that the Government has set an absolute deadline, that this should be in place by 2012, which means that there is a basis for concern about whether Norwegian industry achieves this within the time limit set by the Government. That is why I want the government today not only to open up to prequalify even immature technologies, but to say that, if necessary, a year may go by the time the government has set. Most importantly, the long-term results of this are not what has had to be achieved in the short term internally. I understand that this will be heavy for the Government – which said that Kårstø was to be cleaned in 2009, and put it to 2011/2012 – which is probably getting huge wrangling internally with SV, if they go beyond it, because the symbol policy here is very important. But for the realities of the projects, it must be what you are most concerned about. The desire for Norwegian technology is my driving force. It's been all along. It became clear when we dealt with Mongstad, it has been made clear in the proposals made by the Progress Party on the Stortinget, and it has been made clear in our proposal on how to comply with the Kyoto Protocol. It was the signals from the Center Party and SV that made me particularly concerned, because they said that the time frame here was more important than Norwegian technology. Now I understand that the Council of State is modifying it significantly, and that is important. However, she has not confirmed that the timeframe here will be maintained. I would have liked at least a signal to come later, although it does not mean that one has given up 2012 as an objective – it should just not be an absolute objective. One thing is to open up competition in principle, as the representative Aasland said, something else is active in facilitating competition, so that Norwegian companies have a real opportunity to reach. I'm not saying that we should disperse Norwegian industry – it should be the best technologies that win, because that's what the environment serves – but one should at least give them a real opportunity. Everything I've heard from Aker Kværner suggests that 2012 is unrealistic, unless one gets tested out of the plant on a pilot scale. Then is the concrete challenge for the Council of State: If Aker Kværner and Saga, possibly other Norwegian actors that we do not see today, ask for a suspension of – let's say – half a year or a year in order to be able to participate and deliver a more competitive offer, will the Council of State be at all open to look at the deadline here? It's a signal that makes me sleep very well tonight, instead of just blinding – quite heavy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2164	The representative of Solvik-Olsen can sleep reasonably well at night. He can't sleep properly as well as he likes sail had seen that he could, for I give no signals other than that the tempo plan that is defined should be kept. Then, when we get the messages from Aker Kværner, maybe others, it becomes exciting to see if they're able to keep it, if they're able to play by the rules that are defined. We'll get back to that when we see this. It is also asked whether others – whether they are called Mitsubishi, Fluor or what they are called – are able to deliver. We don't know that until we get the papers. I just have to say that it is a humble oil and energy minister who deals with these issues. It's an ambitious work the government has put up with. It's a demanding time span. There's a lot of technology that needs to be developed while we're going. Therefore, it is wise to meet this with humility. I believe that the representative Kristiansen also has an important cross of thought when he looks at Snow White. This is demanding, and we just have to understand that. At the same time, it is very important. CO2 capture and storage is one of the major grips that can be taken to bring down CO2 emissions. The International Energy Agency is talking about as much as a place between 20 and 28 pst. of the total emissions. To put it this way: we just have to succeed in this, and I am of the clear conviction that this is one of the measures that will take us from the fossil age to the renewable. Let me just end by adding that we have challenges internationally in understanding how important this work is. It's a pleasure that the International Energy Agency is as clear as they are now, but we know that there are a lot of people asking questions about CCS. One of the most important questions is: Is this safe enough? There are a lot of people who ask if we're actually able to save CO2 in such a way that it's safe for thousands of years. I understand it's being asked. We have experience after ten years at Sleipner, where we have had a very good professional follow-up, and we believe we can prove that this is safe. But we still need to talk to people in the international community about this, and we need to understand that this is safe. We have to be willing to do research on this, so that we can prove that it's safe. In addition, there is another question raised, which can also be understood, where one asks: Is it not that CCS will only help to postpone the transition to the renewable society? I think it's important that we say to those who ask about it, that the world will depend on oil and gas for many years to come. Then it is important that we ensure that oil, gas and coal can be used in the most environmentally friendly way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2187	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2205	To put the framework right for this debate, I would like to remind the Council of a exchange of words we had in the Questionnaire on free quota allocation to Kårstø. At that time we both agreed that it is not appropriate to blame the environmental degradation because Kårstø may be allocated free allowances. Allocation of free allowances or no impact on the quantity of allowances as such in the system. It is really only a debate on cost allocation. Therefore, my commitment here is not a wish, nor a consequence of, the debate that a possible increase in CO2 emissions in terms of a change in the climate quota law. It is simply a debate on looking at the costs that are being allocated to society as a result of the climate quota law that has been passed. The debate is therefore due to the fact that new industries in Norway are still subject to high costs which do not have a positive environmental impact. As you know, the Climate allowances Act was presented and worked through rapidly in the Grand Duchy in June of this year. The government parties boasted that it was tight. It was the most offensive climate quota law in the world, and it seemed good at that time. This does not mean that there is less CO2 emissions as a result of its tightness, but that means that industry is getting higher costs in Norway than in other countries. On questions to the then State Council, Bjørnøy about what this would cost, she admitted that it would cost a new industry in Norway approx. 565 million. kr annually. When asked what consequences it would have for different businesses, she was relatively vague. When asked what that would mean for gas power plants in Norway – not what the rules would be, but what the principle approach would be – the answer was that she would not answer that. She did not want to clarify what thoughts the government had about this. There were a number of other questions that were asked about the consequences of this, and then reference was made to the climate communication, which was not submitted until after the matter was settled. On some other questions about it again, the answer was that it did not have time to answer the question in relation to having the matter resolved. The size of the drug was based on relatively poor information on its consequences. The theme I am discussing is that the law states that a non-free or unpaid allowance is not allocated to industry established after 2001 in Norway or that has expanded its activities. The extended activity, or expanded production, shall not be allocated free of charge. In reality, the law has a retroactive effect, with the allocation starting point being 1998–2001. In Sweden it is in 2005–2007. There were no enterprises in Norway during the period that knew what framework conditions they would have under the Kyoto agreement. The Kyoto Agreement was finalised in 1997 but did not enter into force until 2005. Thus, the retrospective force, at my discretion. It's a strange string. In all other countries, the allocation of free allowances to start-ups of industry is made. The current State Council, Mr Bjørnøy, justified the strictness of not wanting business to be stimulated to establish activities with significant CO2 emissions, for one should have an emission-free society. Many suggest that one succeeds when one looks at the consequences for NorFra Kalk. An invoice for a new industry of 565 million. kr of the year is a significant increase which destroys competitiveness. It is a list of companies in the Norwegian industry that show that, for example: NorFraKalk won't get a single free quota. Verdalskalk has expanded its operations and receives allowances equivalent to only 80 pst. of the discharge. Larvik Cell has taken over other activities. The electricity boilers used in 2000 when the electricity price was very low and have been bankrupt during the reference period. They only get 50 pst. of its emissions. Borregaard has expanded greatly. They used electricity in 2000 due to very low power prices. They get an allotment of 65 pst. Hunsfoss gets 75 pst., Peterson and Ranheim get 75 pst. Maxit Leca, who has had two locations in the past and has moved everything over to one, loses the allowances on one and keeps them on the other, and actually gets an allocation of 50 pst. In Sweden, these would have come out much, much better. Let's take a look at the special case of NorFraKalk, which has now started production. It's a 200 million-dollar factory. kr. They have done this in the belief that they would have framework conditions in line with other Nordic countries. There are, after all, Finnish owners there, but they're actually getting an extra 40 million. kr. The cost here is likely to break the company's neck. Even though they're starting up, it's because they get 95 pst. free allowances. There will be something completely different after New Year's. What is interesting here is that if this company is closed down and the lime market still demands the lime they have supplied – and we have to assume that, for the lime market, it is not affected by the disappearance of a supplier – if the supply comes from Russia or China, it will result in a net increase in world CO2 emissions of 2 million. tonnes. This is just to cover the production from NorFra Kalk. It shows that what I assume is good intentions from the Government to make it so tight that the industry gets incentives to invest in CO2 clean technology, unfortunately has the opposite effect. In the case of the gas power plant at Kårstø, natural power itself refers to this as a parody. It's three and a half weeks until the climate allowance law comes into force, and yet they don't know what kind of allocation they get from free allowances. Do they get 95 pst, like today? Do they get 75 pst. that Statkraft has in Germany? Or they get 0 pst. – so we can actually reason up to when government council Haga says that gas power plants based on CO2 cleaning need to be understood as having cleaning at start-up? Everyone knows that Kårstø does not have start-up clean-up and knows that climate allowances are to be allocated from the climate quota reserve to gas power plants based on CO2 cleaning at start-up. If you're going to follow what's actually written, the government has no choice but to say that they're not going to get free allowances, unless you start to reinterpret mass. It is common in politics, but it undermines the government's rhetoric. It would have been interesting if the government had wanted to comment in particular on NorFraKalk's CO2 accounts and Kårstø. For Kårstø, there are clear sentences with clear definitions from the Haga Council on how to understand the sentences, but where the consequences will be completely destructive, and it is for a gas power plant that Minister Andersen at the opening said was a step in an environmentally friendly direction and a new chapter in Norwegian energy history. In the case of Forest – another gas power plant that has not been realised but which has a concession and emission permit – then State Council Bjørnøy would not give them any guidance as to what kind of quota allocations they would receive, unless they were based on high-efficiency thermal power plants. The climate quota law is thus a threat to industry, both producing energy and producing heat. It is a threat to existing businesses that are newly established, but it benefits an established business that already existed before 2001. This, therefore, hinders some of the dynamics in Norway. It provides a competitive advantage for foreign investment and expansion, rather than the equivalent in Norway. Do you really think that a tight climate quota law will provide incentives overnight to develop zero-emission technology? I don't think that's possible. I believe that technology is being developed over time, that new demands still have to be made, but not cut their hands off if they don't comply. In reality, this penalises companies that – like NorFraKalk – already use the best available technology on the globe, which will have no other option of cutting their emissions than by shutting down production. So here they get an allowance that none of their competitors have, and they have no chance of getting rid of no matter what technology they invest in. The Climate Emissions Act provides a tight framework for industrial establishment after 2001, without any net impact on the climate. As I said, the total number of allowances is the same, it's just the cost allocation that's different. The State does not grant them free allowances, but may charge them if they are the country’s allowances they sell. If the country does not sell them to an enterprise, the country may in any case sell the allowances elsewhere in the market. The state will get the income here, while the industry will get the cost. It costs only parts of the industry. It has to be the most unfair thing. Then you don't even treat the same industry in your own country. Then it's random years that apply, and not a ‘base scenario’ — to use a good Norwegian word — for the technology you use. On the contrary, in the worst case, the Government's approach to the climate quota law leads to the establishment of industry in Norway and its relocation to countries without emission reductions. Why is this still a point to make when you say that the Storting knew this when it was adopted? Well, because the representative Asmund Kristoffersen said that the industry would use the green resolution mechanisms freely to reduce its costs. Everyone knows that the EU has stopped that possibility, and then it is up to them to take that discussion again, to see if it is possible to make any changes by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2263	Let me first thank the interpellant for the issues that have been raised. The Norwegian quota system for 2008 to 2012 is based to a significant extent on the principle that companies have to buy allowances. It is in line with the polluter paying. The allocation of few free allowances contributes to a greater degree to the adaptation of Norwegian industry to a more stringent climate regime. One has to expect that in the future activities will be confronted with a higher price of greenhouse gas emissions and that they themselves will have to cover their full costs also related to greenhouse gas emissions. In order to achieve the most effective quota system, the allocation system should be based on the most objective criteria possible. The Government therefore proposes an allocation model based on historical emissions. An effective allowance system requires businesses to be able to assume that the gain from the sale of allowances is real and is not curtailed by a lower allowance allocation in the subsequent allowance period. The Government has intended and continues to believe that the ETS Directive does not prevent Norway from allocating allowances on a purely historical basis. Alternatively, a system of floating base periods could have been envisaged, updated for each new quota-allocation round. Such a scheme will help to weaken the allowance system and could result in operators believing that they will receive a lower allocation of free allowances in the next period if they implement emission reduction measures. This will reduce the efficiency of the allowance system. Historical allocation should therefore not be combined with a liquid base period. The emissions in the historical baseline period 1998 to 2001 form the basis for the allocation in the Norwegian quota system for 2008 to 2012. The base period is the same as used in the allowances system for the 2005-2007 period as was then chosen in consultation with industry. Since the interpellant refers to a previous exchange of lines between us in Stortinget, I would say that I think everyone understands that there is no exact science for exactly which base period you take. It could have taken both an earlier and a later base period. When this government just chose this base period, it was because it was already in place. What becomes an impossible system is whether to change this continuously in line with what demands and points of view arise. If, for example: would change it every time an interpellant from the Progress Party took up a situation, I think we would get an absolutely impossible system. What would happen to such a floating system would just be that there was no incentive for industry to make the necessary adjustments. Then the industry that didn't adapt could expect to get new, cheap quotas at a later stage and not have incentives to adapt, while the industry that adapted, that carried out the technological change that we're all after, would lose in doing so, because they wouldn't be able to sell allowances in the same way as in this system. So that's all possible reason to maintain that you have to have a base period. Then you can discuss what period it should be, but I think we've chosen a reasonably correct period in that way. In addition to this, we have discussed a quota reserve, which we will be sending out in the very near future, where – as the interpellant says – free allowances will be granted to a certain extent, in line with what has been said in the past by the Government that it will be. A detailed proposal for this will come in the very, very near future. It is also true, as the interpellant says, that such a historical allocation would have to lead to discrimination between activities included in the historical base period and those defined as new in relation to the allocation. But that's true no matter where you set the intersection time between historical emissions and the new businesses. Furthermore, discrimination cannot be eliminated by shifting the base allocation period closer to the start of the quota trading period. As long as the base period is fixed, new cases will arise in each new allowance period where establishments are not included in the historical basis. This will apply regardless of where the historical allocation line is set for this period. As long as the establishment of an effective quota system with a clean historical allocation is accepted, it will also be necessary to accept that discrimination between established establishments and new establishments will arise. There is also an extensive degree of discrimination in EU countries. For example, many countries have created non-refillable allowance servers. If the set-aside is exhausted, new businesses will have to purchase all allowances on the market. The Government will signal with the principles of the allocation of allowances that all new businesses will have to charge full climate costs in their investment decisions. Much attention has been paid to the Norwegian quota system allocation regime related to the limestone holding NorFra Kalk. Both NHO and NorFra Kalk have formally complained about the Norwegian allocation model for ESA. It is important to be aware that all forms of free allocation result to a greater or lesser extent in discrimination between different activities. The Government’s view is that the discrimination in the Norwegian quota system is necessary and that it is not undue. Consequently, the Government will not reconsider the allocation regime until ESA has assessed whether the Norwegian model is in breach of the ETS legislation, and may come back to this case once ESA has given its decision. As a matter of urgency, the Government will propose rules on the access of Norwegian enterprises to the supply of allowances from the project-based Kyoto mechanisms. The Norwegian regulated activities are allowed to deliver such allowances equal to 20 pst. of the total Norwegian quota quantity of up to 15 million tonnes. The government states that the right to deliver a total of 3 million allowances from other countries is equally distributed among the eligible. This will give all enterprises relatively equal access to deliver allowances from the project-based mechanisms, limited to 13 pst. of its surrendered allowances for the period 2008 to 2012. Access to the use of such allowances by Norwegian establishments shall be sought in full. Therefore, in the annual settlement each year, Norwegian establishments are allowed to supply up to 13 pst. allowances from emission reduction projects in other countries. This level is based on expected emissions. I would also like to add that we hope that as many of these quotas, purchased in developing countries, will also contribute to a real development effect in these countries. This access may be modified during the period if the evolution of emissions is different than intended or access is not fully exploited. Access for Norwegian businesses to deliver allowances from the project-based mechanisms is in line with the European businesses that have the best access to deliver such allowances. In most other European countries, the ceiling on the use of project-based mechanisms is set as a percentage of the free allocation. We have required to clarify that all Norwegian ETS can make use of allowances from the project-based mechanisms, including those activities that have to purchase all of their allowances in the market. We have an effective quota system that will lead to real emission reductions and that will help Norwegian businesses adapt to a more stringent climate regime – a climate regime that we have to expect will become even more stringent after 2012. In sum, I believe that this is a good basis for saying that we have the best quota system in Europe. And more than that: we are at full speed to transform Norwegian industry and business into a competitive new and much more stringent European regime, which we hope and believe will come into place after 2012, and which may also become a more global regime in a new Kyoto II mechanism.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2293	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But I understand that we have to take a biomembrane approach here to make sure that we get a clearer answer last round. There was nothing new in what came out here. Unfortunately, this was a lot of the same thing you heard from Bjørnøy. So it is not possible to quantify that this strange, strict quota gypsy has a positive environmental impact. Nor can it be shown that there is a particular driving force in technology development, for the companies that have to take the largest cost here are new enterprises that are in the start-up phase or that have had investments that are likely to break their necks rather than spend money to develop technology. They're already using the best available technology. It is not enterprises that are old-fashioned and have a large potential to reduce and thus save money. In terms of base period, that's not what's the essential problem here. The basis for discrimination is, of course, because the 2001 limit has been set. Non-discrimination should be looked at here, because when Sweden sets the limit to 2005–2007, it offers a completely different dynamics and opportunities for development in Swedish business than it does for Norwegians. But the solution to this problem is to say that you have to have a norm-based allocation. That would fix this, unless you say you're going to buy all the allowances, anyway. Then you don't have to norm-based it either. We're talking about controlling expectations so that one adapts. Yes, I understand the argument, but in practice you don't give business the opportunity to adapt, because you just get a quick cut off for parts of the industry. The important thing for the environment here must be to have a level playing field with industry, so that all companies producing the same product are measured against each other, so that the best and most environmentally friendly win, not like now, that you get just a little random time to make start-ups in Norway unprofitable. This will give existing industry a competitive advantage and start-ups will see outside the country. This does not exactly contribute to Norwegian companies being involved in investing for further operations and profitability and thus being drivers of technological development. We have to avoid the emigration that we now see as a result of what has happened in connection with NorFra Kalk. It's not that NorFraKalk is moving the factory, but that means that it could produce NorFraKalk is probably taken over by competitors. Competitors with more environmentally friendly technologies are prevented from establishing themselves in Norway and there will be a competitive disadvantage for Norwegian companies. I think it's a little strange, when it's said, that the government can't resolve the Kårstø case. They're going to send it out soon. They haven't done it yet, but in today's business, it is clear that Yara and the allocation of CO2 allowances have been decided. I would like to see it explained by the Council of State. ‘Yara releases CO2 billing’ is the heading of Today’s Business.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2312	I got the initial impression that the interpellant thought it would be a shell word if I did the same thing as Helen Bjørnøy. I can only cancel that once and for all. I don't see it as problematic, on the contrary. I think I'm going to go on, on very many points, the good policy that Helen Bjørnøy stood for – just so it's said. The problem here arises if you do not have a basic period, with the problems that a basic period entails – there is no reason to hide that it has problematic aspects. A good part of the objections that the interpellant makes towards a basic period is, in fact, correct. The alternative is a floating mechanism where the reality is that it will be much more random. It will almost certainly be that those who are able to mobilize political noise and trouble, those who are able to get interpellants in the Storting and others to deal with their case separately, will get their things through in such a system, while those who do not have all these tools will not get it through. The point of a basic period, whether you choose one or the other, is to get an objective, predictable system. All the business community asks for in all the contacts I have with them in all the contexts is: Let's get a system that is predictable, that doesn't change with changing governments, that definitely doesn't change with changing noise in the Storting – a system that we can plan our long-term investments based on, that we can adapt to and make reasonable arrangements within. That's what you get with this. You know what the system is all about, and you get to the gradual technology conversion that we're all about to achieve. So I would also like to comment on Yara, which the interpellant picks up. I was going to answer that in the previous debate, but it gives me a good chance to take it now. This is something else. Yara was off the quota system, but she's asked to come in herself. They should have a great reward for that. They may probably have competitive advantages too in the long run, but initially it is almost exemplary ideal that a company that accounts for a large part of Norwegian emissions, 4 pst. of the emissions – it’s not de minimis, it’s as much, I think, as the emissions from a gas power plant, for example, we’re talking about large emission reductions – are asking for permission to get into the allowance system. The government then states that they enter the liquefied gas allowance system, which is the main emission factor. That's where they'll get 50 pst. quota allocation by the Government, while ammonia will be kept out, as requested by the interpellant. And then over time we'll be able to see if ammonia can get into the quota system, in line with some other industries that are currently kept out of the system. Here, of course, it will be important to have a second look at what is happening in the EU in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2323	It is important to follow the way in which the instruments we put in place to help meet our emissions obligations are effective, both in order to achieve climate objectives and in order to see how the measures work for, among others. Our businesses. Act on the obligation of allowances and trading of allowances for greenhouse gas emissions specific, inter alia: the amount of the allowance obligation and the allocation of allowances, in order to align our legislation with the commitments we made during the period 2008-2012 of the Kyoto Protocol and with the EU ETS Directive. The law contains a balance, because it imposes emission reductions on us by having limited free quota allocations, while making good use of the Kyoto mechanisms in an active way through emissions trading, project cooperation between industrialised countries that have ratified the Kyoto Protocol, and project cooperation with developing countries. When we have as a basis that we generally do not allocate additional free allowances to new industries and activities with capacity extensions, it may be important for many businesses to exploit the mechanisms that facilitate the purchase and sale of allowances. That is why we applied for a derogation in the EU for the directive to provide for a maximum of 10 pst. the total quantity of allowances may be sold to undertakings subject to allowances in order to be able to allocate fewer free allowances. Nor did we want to put an overall ceiling on the use of allowances in the Norwegian quota system from the project-based mechanisms, joint implementation and the green development mechanism. Now we know that we need to pave the way for companies to use the project-based Kyoto mechanisms. We also know that the total quantity of allowances should not exceed a level of 15 million. tonnes per tonne; years on average for the 2008-2012 period. Those subject to allowances may use the Kyoto project-based mechanisms within a 20 pst framework. of the total quantity of allowances. However, it is now true that enterprises in Norway have even more access to these mechanisms than enterprises in other European countries. This could mean that Norwegian industry can handle a strict Norwegian quota regime while contributing to good greenhouse gas reduction projects outside our borders. Both the Norwegian industry and the rest of the world have to consider, as the Council of State did, that it will cost more and more to emit greenhouse gases. I think that's going to be the content of future allowances. Then I would like to add that we must be responsive to the signals we receive if our regime were to lead to unintended effects, such as: that good, environmentally friendly production in Norway can be moved out if our quota regime is stricter than the farms themselves can bear. The recordings we have again received from, among others. The company NorFraKalk, which was mentioned here, indicated that the effects had to be monitored and any adjustments from time to time could be assessed. But it can't be that we're going to let our legislation fluctuate with random recordings either in this room or otherwise. It has to be consistent, so that businesses and businesses know what they have to do. Moreover, I refer to the State Council, Solheim said, with reference to the pending process in ESA in the specific case mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2346	Of course, nobody – probably not in this room either – is asking for a floating system. I have not realized that someone has asked for it. Right-wing warning during treatment of Ot.prp. No. 66 in June, precisely against the consequences and consequences of the adaptation to the quota directive that we are to implement in Norwegian legislation, could get for Norwegian industry – that we do not put ourselves transparently on the EU system, so that as a consequence we get Norwegian industry to suffer a competitive disadvantage. Then it's a little too early today, before the start-up shot has even passed, to issue the Norwegian variant to the best quota system in Europe, as the Norwegian system was characterised by the State Council of Solheim. I think Norwegian industry and other stakeholders related to Norwegian industry will gradually gain their own experience when you see the impact of what becomes the current Norwegian policy in this area. Of course, the interpellant is quite right when he refers to the project-based mechanisms contained in the Odelstinget decision, as well as taking into account and compensating for fewer free allowances, compensating for the fact that new activities established after 2001 did not receive free allowances at all — that investment was not taken into account except for the reference period and that the project-based mechanisms could compensate for it. You even put the emphasis on opening for up to 100 pst. the application of project-based mechanisms. There were probably few in the main hall, if there were any, who thought that was what we should be able to achieve, but the point is that this has been reduced to 20 pst. So you could say that well, well, that's a pretty high number in itself compared to the number that some EU countries get allocated. It could have been tempting to withdraw the industrial power regime in addition to the effects of the Norwegian industry, but this does not allow time. And there's hardly any comfort for anyone. But the important question here is not only whether this will give the environmental impact that the Council of State points to. There will obviously be a benefit for the local climate account if the consequences are that Norwegian industry has to shut down or move out, but for the global climate account this is unlikely to be effective at all, rather the opposite. That is why I share the interpellant's request, but there is probably a rare request to present here. We should have been committed to non-discrimination, giving Norwegian industry equal conditions to EU countries. When, on these issues, the EU has really sat in the world’s driving seat to launch and develop a policy in this area, we should have been satisfied with such a solution. That's why we're going to see in the next year that this will turn out to be some of the results that maybe not Norwegian industry has earned. Finally, I perceive the lookup today in today's business as being primarily about Yara, but it also applies to ammonia production in Norway. I can't see that the Council's response today is a solution for the ammonia factory in Porsgrund. If I'm wrong, I'm asking to be corrected for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2363	The Climate Change Act is an important environmental policy tool. The left shares the perception of the importance of the underlying polluter pays principle and is a fundamental prerequisite for the way in which a person behaves in this area. The left was a supporter of a tighter regime than the government provided when this matter was discussed in Stortinget, but agreed with most of the main principles. We now record that important aspects of the impact on the individual enterprise are not clear, even if it is only three–four weeks until the law is due to begin to apply. I think it is a little special that now, via newspaper lookups, it sends out notices to individual companies about what is going to happen to them, while other individual companies have no idea what the consequences are for them. One of the companies that doesn't know which regime they're going to meet is the gas power plant at Kårstø. Of course, there is a great deal of interest for those operating the plant, but there is also a great deal of interest in the environmental policy pursued by the Government, to what extent one would like this plant to receive free allowances. It would be particularly important if the representatives of the Government at the same time decide that this highly polluting gas power plant will have a high level of free allowances, travel to Bali and preach a policy to reduce emissions. I record that the industrial contact with the Council of State has led to a clear picture of the importance of stable framework conditions and that he wants to base his work on them. Then it seems very special that he changes the framework conditions for those working with small power, that he repeatedly changes the framework conditions with regard to those who have dealt with green certificates, and that one cannot get a clarification of the industrial power regime, despite the Government's promise on different occasions. Then the Council of State has made a point that he is passing the policy on to his predecessor. Helen Bjørnøy said clearly in Stortinget that from 2013 the industry will meet a regime without free allowances. It wasn't just that one had to invest in a stricter regime, that one thought it would be more stringent, she said that there won't be any free allowances from 2013, i.e. the next agreement period. Here I could imagine a clarification from the Council of State, whether he also agrees with his predecessor in this essential area. Now I hope we get a Solheim of the good, old, clear type. When I stress this, it's because I think it's essential. If the polluter has to pay, yes, then it takes into account when an intermediate period like this is completed. And so it's because I agree with what the government council said, that those who are going to meet a future regime are going to get clear and consistent information about what the regime is going to be, from the government's representatives, so they're going to act accordingly. Minister of Foreign Affairs Støre has also said that he recommends that the industry prepare for the fact that there will be no free quotas. I hope we can get such a clear message from the Minister for the Environment as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2374	It has become a bit of a strange debate, because it gives the impression that you have a love for one company in particular, which you suddenly discover has a problem, and that if another company starts complaining in a year's time, you will return to the same debate on behalf of it. This is a fundamental debate, because the assumptions of the Stortinget at the time of the adoption of the climate quota law have not been followed up. Both the representative Nordtun and the representative Kristoffersen, who were the spokespersons of the government parties in this area, made it clear both in this room and in the media that the climate quota law was extremely strict and offensive – in their eyes – to new industries, but that the new industry would be able to deal with this because the mechanisms that were in place would be fully used. in CDM, which gives lower quotas than what you would get in the EU system. You should be able to use them to the full. Then the EU has subsequently imposed restrictions on a maximum of 20 pst. – I guess that's what it was agreed on. There is a significant change in the assumptions for this industry, which makes this debate absolutely in place, but as I regret to say, there is no interest in doing anything from the red-green parties. The problem addressed is not the basic period, but the time chosen, because it means discriminating against parts of Norwegian business – between themselves. A polluter pays principle is established after 2002, which is probably the most environmentally friendly. However, the polluter pays principle shall not apply to enterprises that existed before 2002. In that case, the State shall take a large part of the costs. It has nothing to do with good industrial policy, nor does it have anything to do with good environmental policy, because this torpedoes the profitability of new, environmentally friendly establishments in Norway. There is no incentive for NorFra Kalk to invest one penny in developed cleaning technology when you actually go bankrupt before you open up. This is not a step in, as some red-green politicians have said in this debate. This is black and white from the Government's side. That's what's sad. The list of enterprises affected is long. That's why in principle you want to address this in order to ensure equal treatment. I register that Yara has wanted the gas into this. They do not want fertiliser production into the climate quota law. I do not see that the Council of State has confirmed that fertiliser production should be outside, because in the EEA case that we have dealt with, including the climate quota law in the EEA Agreement, the Government is in fact very clear that they want both fertilizers and natural fertilisers to be included in the climate quota law. The important thing in this debate is that CO2 emissions do not increase even if new Norwegian industry is included, but it is suggested that new Norwegian industry should be able to compete on equal terms with the EU. It should be the most important thing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2390	Then the president gives the floor to an Erik Solheim of the good old-fashioned type, to quote the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2393	There are a lot of people who are starting to want to come home to the weekend! Let me first say to Ivar Kristiansen: I'm going to agree that the wording that this is the best system in Norway and in the world ever, maybe was a little bit 17 May. We'll let the future judge how good the Norwegian system is. So to the interpellant and several others who have been into ammonia: I mean I expressed myself quite clearly at that point, but let me repeat that ammonia in this game is being kept out of the quota system. So the objections that have come from precisely Porsground should then be fully addressed. But let me also use the opportunity to say that it is fantastic that a central, leading Norwegian company comes and asks to be included in the quota system. It is precisely the forward-looking attitude we want to see in Norwegian business – not that you sit and doubt all the problems, but that you go out offensively and look at how you can meet the new challenges in this area. The inclusion of natural gas contributes — when technologies are developed to reduce emissions — to a dramatic decrease in CO2 equivalents. In the case of Kårstø, on which Kvassheim and others have been involved, any free allowances that may possibly be used on Kårstø will not affect Norwegian emissions, as they fall within the scope of the emissions allocated. I have said in the past, and I repeat, the Government has made it clear that free allowances will be distributed. I would assume that the free allowances could be used by Kårstø, but we have to come back with the detailed regulation for quota servers, which is such a complicated system that it cannot be presented in a short final replica here. It will be presented in the near future and there will be free quotas. But the free allowances will have no effect on the total Norwegian emissions, as I was in a previous exchange of lines with the interpellant. Let me end by saying that there is no one who today knows with certainty what kind of international quota system you have in 2012/2013. This Government – and I am absolutely sure that it is with the consent of the Storting – will enter into a Kyoto II process with the aim of establishing a more comprehensive and more stringent international global quota regime. Nor do we know for sure what is succeeding in the EU. So today providing some secure, automatic guarantees of what is the situation in 2012/2013 is, of course, impossible. But the company in Norway that is so stupid that it now speculates that there will be a less extensive and milder quota system after 2012, deserves no mercy at that time. All Norwegian industry now has to assume that after 2012 it will be a more stringent system, a more comprehensive global system, and we need to see the enormous competitive advantages it can be for Norwegian industry to start adapting to such a system now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2410	That is when the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2416	The size now goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2443	Proposal No. 3 concerns a request to resume negotiations with Sweden on green certificates. The Council of State has today informed the Storting that such negotiations are under way. Consequently, the request of the opposition parties has been followed up by the Government before the vote on the proposal. It can therefore be drawn. – It’s a practice I recommend at the warmest!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e2450	Proposal No. 3 from the party of progress, the right, the Christian party, and the left, are thus drawn. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e4609	We shall vote on the motions for resolutions. 15-19, from the Progress Party. As far as proposal No 19 is concerned, this must be waived because it must be regarded as a framework-dependent and consequently contrary to the rules of Section 19 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e4647	We then vote on proposal No. 20, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals to delegate to each municipality the concession authority for all power plants up to 1 MW.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party now wants to support this proposal. – It is confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e4664	The proposals are then put to the vote. 10-14, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. As far as proposal No 12 is concerned, there may be doubts as to whether it should be considered as a framework and, consequently, not to be put to the vote, but with a sympathetic interpretation by the President that any implementation would not affect the 2008 budget, it could pass. There the president would have expected a little applause from the hall! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e4717	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 9, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide a State guarantee for the financing of a separation plant in relation to a gas pipeline to Grenland in the context of the 2008 Revised National Budget.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e4732	We have come to proposal No. 2 and proposals Nos. 4-8, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Here again the President will refer to Section 19 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, and this time it applies to proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox This must be considered to be framework-dependent and will consequently lapse and not result in voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e8800	The representative of Kvassheim has made a mistake in II points. 1st@item: inlistbox On the third line, it says «Chap 1427 entry 1». It shall read « cap. 1427 item 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e8811	In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-07.ana.ud1688e8822	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed.
