ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-lower.ana.ud2628e42	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to every batch and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-lower.ana.ud2628e51	The Act on Compensation for Patient Damage was adopted in 2001. The intention was that the law would apply to patients caused in both the public and private health sectors. However, it has been shown that no insurance company has wanted to offer insurance under the conditions laid down in the Patient Damage Act. Therefore, the law has only entered into force for the public health service. A joint committee agrees that this is not satisfactory, and all patients, regardless of whether they are treated in private or public health services, should be covered by the same extended civil protection as the Patient Injury Act provides. A joint committee therefore agrees with the Ministry that changes should be adopted to the Patient Injury Act which allows him to also enter into force for the private health service. There is a political agreement on the importance of strengthening patients’ substitution legal position. Many patients probably do not know that one today, if the patient injury is caused in the public health service, will be treated according to more favourable compensation rules than if it is caused in the private sector. There is something illogical with this system. Mishandling can have equally serious consequences regardless of whether it is a public or a private practitioner who has treated the patient. A comprehensive committee also agrees that today’s border between public and private health services may be difficult to attract. The Committee therefore supports a legislative amendment aimed at taking over private health liability from Norwegian Patient Damage Compensation (NPE). A specific question is how to finance the extension of NPE's responsibilities. A Joint Committee agrees that this responsibility should be financed through the contributions of private service providers. It will be quite demanding to create collection models that will make the supplement reasonable for each service provider. Different service providers have different damage potential and, therefore, if the private health service is to complete its liability, it is important to create a system with a justly differentiated add-on system. In the case of insurance as an alternative to the supplementary scheme, a joint committee proposes that a regulatory secret be attached to this. This means that it can be opened later for private insurance if the condition so permits. My left and myself belong to a plurality, which consists of the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, and the Left, which suggests that the Storting ask the Government to provide such a rule for the Storing to be treated before it is put into action. Today – it was quite random – the committee visited Norwegian Patient Compensation. There we got very good information and a review of the main points of the change in the patient injury law, which we are currently dealing with. So I'm not going to go that much further than I've already done. But one thing that is the condition of this case is that this should be done on 1 January 2008. In today's meeting with the NPE, the Director of the NPE's side raised doubts about realism in this. In conclusion, I would just say that it might be interesting if the Council of State could comment separately on the timing of implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-lower.ana.ud2628e74	This is not a matter of major disagreements in the Committee, but it may be a good thing to draw attention to some minor issues. One is, of course, the majority's wish that the regulation be presented to the Grand Duchy before its entry into force, and that is simply because we want a security related to several things before we introduce some of the provisions of the law. If an insurance company wishes to compete in the framework in which the NPE operates today, at least the undersigned and the majority believe that it must actually be possible. What is stated in the proposition itself is that the Government will open up the possibility, if the circumstances so warrant, of producing a regulation, while the majority say that this regulation must be dealt with by the Stortinget. So these aren't the big differences. Furthermore, it is important to take into account the fact that a very clear distinction must be made between the private part of the NPE system and the public, because the private part of the healthcare provided in this country has a very small share. It is then necessary to ensure that the payment bit is in line with the size of the enterprise, so that the payment and funding are not used to ensure that some individuals cannot participate in health care. One of the things we mentioned in the meeting with Norwegian Patient Compensation today is how to catch up with the system of foreign doctors and health professionals coming to Norway and establishing themselves. Actually, you haven't found a solution to that yet. Some of these things have to be done while you're going, and make sure you have the best possible system to capture all of this. In this connection, I would also like to remind you that reference was made to the fact that the date of entry into force, i.e. 1 January 2008, could be difficult to achieve, but I think I have more with me when I say that there is a need to ensure that the best possible system is in place here. The content and accuracy are more important than an exact date of entry into force, because this is a system that will last for a long, long time for the benefit of patients. Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation is the organ of the patients, and if I do not remember completely wrong, I guess in 2006 it included 1 122 cases of a treatment mass of more than 3,600. So it's quite clear that it's a big system, it's a pretty effective system, but it's also very important for patients that this works, and that we're now getting equal treatment between the public and the private.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-lower.ana.ud2628e85	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough and good presentation of the matter. Patients seeking health care have a legitimate wish that treatment should lead to an improvement in their health situation. However, some patients experience, instead, an injury with subsequent additional stress due to health care errors. It is understandable that human and other failures can lead to errors, but it is also important that patients have a good level of legal protection in such situations. Financial compensation cannot compensate for pain and loss of quality of life or other conditions, but patient compensation can provide compensation for financial loss and lasting medical butchers. It is essential that all patients have the same civil protection protection, regardless of whether health professionals work in public or private activities. The co-operation administration promoted legislative proposals with a view to including private enterprises in the law. However, this has not proved possible. In view of this, the Right joins the proposals presented in Ot.prp. No 103 for 2005-2006. On the right, however, we would like to make it clear that the determination of the insurance premium for private operators must be reasonable and proportionate to the extent and nature of the business. Like the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, the Right believes that it is necessary to present a new case to the Stortinget if it turns out that there is still a private market for patient damages. In this case, it may be necessary to re-evaluate the way in which patient injury compensation is to be provided for private health businesses. However, it is difficult to see a justification that the government parties do not want such a case submitted to the Stortinget, unless they wish to delegate all power in the matter to the ministry through a regulatory home. Finally. As regards the date of entry into force of the Act, it is actually in my opinion that the law applies from the time the King decides, and that the date of 1 January 2008 is not set. Maybe we should get that straight. But as I said, in the setting it says, "From the time the King decides."
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-lower.ana.ud2628e100	Law on compensation in the event of injury to patients etc. was adopted in 2001, but only entered into force for the public health service, as explained. The intention has been that it should also relate to patient injuries occurring in the private health care. We believe that patients in both private and public healthcare should be covered by the same extended civil protection protection provided by the Patient Damage Act, and therefore we are pleased that the Government has now proposed this. As regards the issue of setting up a separate fund to ensure future replacement payments, the Ministry of Proposition comments on different calculation models for grant payments but does not consider the model to be used. This shall be assessed in the context of the implementation of the arrangements. It is also natural to consider whether it is appropriate to set up a fund. Regardless of the calculation method used, an adjustment will be relevant after a few years of experience with the scheme. The Ministry proposes that the extension of the responsibilities of the NPE to private health care should be financed by a service provider grant scheme. This has its background in the fact that the insurance industry has not been willing to offer such insurance. Different service providers have different damage potential. If the private health service is to complete its liability, it is important to establish a system with a fair, differentiated grant scheme. An evaluation should be carried out when the Patient Injury Act has been in force for the private health sector for some years. In this context, particular attention should be paid to the functioning of the proposed grant scheme. The Ministry has, as a starting point, decided not to open up private insurance as an alternative to paying subsidies to NPE. However, a regulatory helmet is proposed so that it can be opened up to this effect if the circumstances warrant it. I would like to underline the ministry's position on this when the Ministry of Health and Health states the following: ‘NPE will be subject to framework conditions other than private insurance companies and should therefore not compete with them. NPE will not be able to refuse to ‘insure’ any service providers. On the other hand, private insurance companies will be able to choose to offer insurance only to the service providers or groups of service providers where they expect profit. This could result in a ‘slope selection’ in the insurance collective so that the ‘most expensive customers’ are covered by the NPE, while those who cause few and/or cheap damages choose private insurance. In addition, a scheme in which NPE provides for all service providers in the private sector will have certain practical benefits. It will be easier to calculate grants when there is no need to take into account that some service providers may fall from or come to because of transition to or from private insurance. Furthermore, if NPE ensures all patient injury requirements, there will be a simple and uniform regime for patients as all victims can then relate to the same body.’ I should have wished that precisely these things, which I believe are important objections, had been more problematic from the opposition's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-lower.ana.ud2628e120	Norwegian law gives all patients equal rights to those providing healthcare. It is the patient’s state of health and not the patient’s economy that will determine how society will care for patients. For me and the Government, the principle of equal treatment for patients is absolutely fundamental – regardless of age, diagnosis, residence and economics. In addition to equal patient rights in all parts of the healthcare system, it is also important to provide for equal rights to compensation when patients are exposed to harm and financial loss in the context of investigation and treatment. Today it's not like that. Today, patients receiving public health care are better protected from financial loss than those receiving private treatment. This is because the Patient Injury Act is only in force for public health. The Patient Damage Act ensures patients against financial loss in a better way than usual liability insurance. Patients treated privately are not better protected from financial loss than those covered by the insurance of the healthcare provider. The Patient Injury Act is not in force for private service providers because insurance companies have not been willing to offer insurance as required by the Patient Injury Act, which is more favourable to patients than usual in civil liability insurance – despite the fact that the Stortinget has previously made changes to the law to meet the objections of the insurance industry to the Patient Injury Act as originally adopted. The legislative proposal put forward by an overall health and care committee to support now will ensure that all patients are given equal rights to compensation for injury to patients, whether they are treated in public or private activities. This is done by amending the Patient Injury Act so that Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation also assumes responsibility for damage caused in the private sector. In Ot.prp. No 103 for 2005-2006, the Government proposed that the scheme be financed by grants from private sector service providers. I'm glad that a joint committee joins this in the setting. I believe it is fair and reasonable that those who cause the damage also become financially responsible. As is known, differentiation of service providers’ contributions to Norwegian Patient Injury Compensation is based on the size of the establishment and on the risk of injury represented by the establishment. We have to assume that the grants are slightly higher than the current insurance premiums, because the patient injury law gives the right to compensation in more cases than the usual insurance. The reason is that the Patient Injury Act does not require patients to prove that the health professionals have acted negligently. The grants will be calculated on the basis of the expected compensation payments and the costs of the proceedings. However, it is important to clarify that Norwegian Patient Compensation should not lead to profits. I have noticed that the committee, like the ministry, believes that experience with the law should be evaluated when it has worked for some years for the private sector. The part of the healthcare that is privately funded is significantly smaller than the public health service. However, the legislative proposal is an important matter for those concerned, and supports the central and fundamental principle of equal treatment for patients through equal rights to compensation for all patients. As far as the time of entry into force is concerned, like the committee leader and other speakers, I am concerned that the most important thing now is to put in place a proper and robust system. I understand that the department has been authorised to use the necessary time, but I can assure Stortinget that we will not spend more time than is necessary to get the system in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-lower.ana.ud2628e143	No one has asked for the word in reply. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-lower.ana.ud2628e153	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-lower.ana.ud2628e459	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-lower.ana.ud2628e469	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-lower.ana.ud2628e479	B will be sent to Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-06-lower.ana.ud2628e529	Thus, the matters on today's map are handled.
