ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e93	The representatives Eirin Fallet, Trygve Battle Violence Vedum, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Leif Helge Kongshaug, Heidi Sørensen, Per Sandberg and Vigdis Giltun, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Finnmark County, Kirsti Saxi, has taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative Eva M. Nielsen from 8 May onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative Thomas Breen from 8 May onwards and until further notice from the representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen on leave for days from 9 and 10 May to take part as an observer for the OSCE parliamentary assembly during the parliamentary elections in Armenia These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of the Telemark County, Lise Wiik, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen on 9 and 10 May. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Ann-Kristin EngstadFor Hedmark County: Tone Merete SønsterudFor Telemark County: Sindre Fossum Beyer2. Ann-Kristin Engstad is elected to the Lamentations for the time she meets Eva M. Nielsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e168	Ann-Kristin Engstad and Tone Merete Sønderud are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e174	The President will propose the election of three presidents of the Stortinges meetings today and the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Anders Anundsen. Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Anders Anundsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of Stortinget's meetings this week.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e184	The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e187	On behalf of the representatives of Peter Skovholt Gitmark, Gunnar Gundersen, Kari Lise Holmberg, Børge Brende, Trond Helleland, Svein Flätten and myself, I would like to make a proposal to wind up the so-called cab tax and limit the level of property tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e192	The representative Mr Børge Brende will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e196	On behalf of the representatives Ivar Kristiansen, Peter Skovholt Gitmark and myself, I would like to propose a ban on the landfill of biodegradable waste from 1 January 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e201	The representative, Torbjørn Hansen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e204	I would like to make proposals on behalf of the big business representatives Petter Løvik, Gunnar Gundersen, Ivar Kristiansen and myself on a forward-looking agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e209	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e212	It is a pleasure to be able to make proposals from the representatives of Siv Jensen, Carl I. Hagen, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse M. Schmidt and myself to hold a referendum on the relationship between state and church at the same time as the municipal elections in 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e217	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e231	At the request of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each case rapporteur and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following statements by the rapporteurs and five lines of reply following comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e240	The National Audit Office has presented its annual Document No. 1 mode. They've revised 233 state agencies. 210 companies have received letters without comments, while 23 have received comments – there is a level of approx. 10 pst., and it's stable. It might not be so alarming in itself, even if 10 pst. is a high number, but it's a big one but it's not the committee. It is that half of the enterprises that received comments in 2005 also received it in 2004. And it's not enough: it's the same weaknesses and comments that go back. One must expect when it is pointed out that there are some weaknesses in the operations, that it will be corrected to the next year. It is worrying when they have the same weaknesses year after year. It's also a concern of the National Audit Office. There is also reason to be concerned that it turns out that there is in fact the etat management that does not follow up the Storting decision. The Committee expects the Government to take this into account and to clean up the matter and to request a review. The Committee also expects that a report next year will see a clear improvement both in relation to who has received comments and in relation to what they have received comments. The coordinators of the other areas will make their comments. Let me, however, address a problem that concerns several of the enterprises. This applies to the breach of the Public Procurement Regulation. This is left in many departments and in many enterprises, including within the department for which I am responsible, namely the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. One must be able to expect that the ministry and public enterprises will be able to adhere to the legislation adopted, which is actually an international legislation. Privates with small administrations may not be able to follow this up, but we have to expect that public enterprises with large administrations will be able to follow this up, and that the same comments will not go back year after year. It was against this background that the Committee's member from the Right, Per-Christian Foss, in winter launched an interpellation on the theme of public procurement. Councillor Heidi Grande Røys promised to take this up. She wanted to clear up and make demands, not only in relation to her own responsibilities, but her colleagues also wanted to make demands on her underwriters that this had to be followed up. We expect, of course, that a report next year will see a clear improvement here. One might not expect one to be completely flawless – none of us is, of course – but we expect a struggle. We in the Committee also expect the Riksrevision to follow this up in later reports, that there will be an arrangement for this, and that the Stortinge will of course be briefed on this. As part of the work on Document No. 1 the Committee has had three verifications. We've had a hearing with the Department of Transport on restructuring funds in Mesta AS. We have had a hearing with the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion about ICT security in the social security system. And we've had a hearing with the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality about relationships around the governance of the children's, youth and family life. I assume that the other case spokesmen will come back to the various hearings. We have also sent a letter to the Ministry of Health and Welfare on certain aspects of the Kreftregister and the register fund. The report from the Ministry of Health and Health has been attached to the setting. The Committee is also concerned about the financial management of healthcare professionals in general, but in particular perhaps in Health Mid-Norway. We in the Progress Party are so alarmed that we believe that the Government must take this into account and follow this up in a special way through a new review of this, and then present the matter to the Stortinget. It seems that some, and in particular Health Mid-Norway, have lost control of financial management. It's serious, because there's so much money going on. On this basis, I would like to present the proposal from the Progress Party, which is included on page 55 of the section.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e262	The representative of Lodve Solholm has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e265	We are now considering the Riksrevision report on the annual control of the use of State resources, which was allocated in the 2005 budget. In other words, much of what I'm going to say now is about the budgetary follow-up of the previous government. The National Audit Office has also identified serious errors and shortcomings in the Ministry of Finance for Children and Gender Equality in 2005. The accounts show significant income on so-called zero-budget items of income. Ninety-four million. kr from these items were used in 2005 to cover other additional expenditure or to explain under-coverage of other items. This is a clear breach of Storting's assumptions. I take it for granted that the relationship is now settled for 2006, and meets the National Audit Office's feedback on this, which we'll probably get next year. All children shall have the right to good growth conditions. We must never allow children to become a balancing item in a budget. No one, regardless of where they live in the country, will have to experience care failure, violence or bullying without anyone acting quickly. The reform of child protection, which transferred responsibility to the state, was, as a unanimous committee notes, an important step towards giving these children a better offer. The National Audit Office’s study covers significant exceedances in several budget lines under Buffetat — despite additional appropriations in two instalments during the year. A joint committee therefore questions the realism of the Ministry’s budgeting for 2005. The opinions expressed, both by the former and the current Minister for Children, in the hearing conducted by the Committee and the points made by the Riksrevision in Document No. 1 shows that the reform was under-budgeted and under-prepared by the department. The question we have to ask ourselves today is therefore whether we have now gained a sufficient understanding and knowledge of the needs, so that we can feel confident that the children will get what they need. I think that's the basis for saying that we're safe now. I know that this is a main focus of the State Council. I have noticed that the Council of State also believes that the Ministry has now taken the governance that she believes is proper to do, and that she has launched a review of the state child protection. That's good. I look forward to reading the results of the review of child protection carried out by ECON. Clear and reflected management signals from the department and good dialogue between the department and the department are the prerequisites for success. I also believe that they will. One of the Bufetat’s objectives has been to reduce the proportion of emergency placements compared to the total number of institutional placements. This is a correct, but also a very demanding goal, because it is the municipalities or county councillors who have the decision-making competence, which then, of course, also imposes extra, but necessary, costs. The national audit review has also revealed serious breaches of the procurement rules. I would like to take this opportunity to stress the responsibility of each person who makes funds available on behalf of the Community for compliance. The Committee notes that the requirement for plans to meet current and future needs for institutional premises has not been met but that the Ministry informs that such plans are being prepared. That's good, too. The many stories of abuse and failure to care for children who were in the custody of child protection in our immediate past are an important reminder of society's responsibility to control all the institutions that child protection uses. An overall committee assumes that satisfactory control procedures are in place also for those institutions operated by the non-profit organisations and that the agreements with them are renegotiated on a common template in line with the assumptions of the State in assuming responsibility for child protection. In summary, the Riksrevision review and our consultation show that Bufetat is facing major challenges and that it is improving from last year, but that there is still some way to tackle it. I assume that both the Department and the National Audit Office follow this development closely. Finally, let me stress that child protection should help and support children who need it. It shall never be a balancing item. It cannot be that we choose bad or no offers at all because we cannot afford the necessary funds. This is also a recommendation to the Minister of Finance, who is now sitting in the Chamber. However, if the Stortinget is to contribute to supporting child protection, we need to ensure that the Ministry and the Ministry of Finance have a full overview of the financing needs linked to the professional and administrative challenges facing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e291	Every year we in Stortinget receive a report from the National Audit Office that points to both defects and defects. That's probably going to happen in the years to come too, I think. I guess there's a lot to do to get a report from the Riksrevision that points out that there's nothing to report about defects and defects. What I think is very positive about the reports from the National Audit Office is that, in addition to pointing out that you are using the money in the wrong way, you are also going into and measuring the efficiency of the businesses we are in. I think that going through carefully if we do the right things, and if we do it the right way, is a very right focus that the Riksaudition has. When you think about all the businesses that the government is doing, it's clear that having a constant focus on whether we spend the money in a good way, for the benefit of the 4.5 million inhabitants, is a very right focus, as I think the National Audit Office has. I'd like to comment on two points. The first concerns the Ministry of Agriculture, for which I am the case rapporteur, and this is about the Food Authority. The previous report from the National Audit Office pointed to serious deficiencies at the Food Authority. I think it's natural that there were problems in the drive-in phase of the Food Agency. The strong criticism that came at the time was especially about lack of good accounting and getting money, following up reminders, etc. We see that a good part of the errors have now been corrected, and the Riksrevision reports that it has improved. But still there are things to address at the Food Authority. Now, in my opinion, the Food Safety Authority has been working so long that it must be expected that the entry problems must be over, and the criticism that is now relative to not following the rules for public procurement etc., we do not expect to see in the report next year. Patience starts in a way that comes to an end when the Food Authority begins to follow the rules that apply in that area. Then we have a big turn-off in the state treasury, and it's Health-Norway. It's natural. We have a lot of hospitals that need public funding to deal with the treatment of different patient groups. We see that in particular the criticism is strong from the Riksrevision regarding Health Mid-Norway. Here, too, there has been a reorganization, by shifting from the county municipalities to hospitals, to health companies. It is also natural that, during a transitional phase, there are difficulties in complying with the laws and regulations in force, as well as keeping an overview of the economic situation at all times. But I have to say that the development that has been seen in Health Mid-Norway is so serious that I hope that both the Riksrevision and not least the Ministry of Health will follow it very closely. Here, there's so much deviation from what we can accept, that we have to view it as very serious. I therefore share the criticism of the Progress Party in this area, for there is a need for closer follow-up. We don't want the SV to support their proposals, but we're in on the criticism. There is a very great need for a closer follow-up of all health businesses, and especially of Health Mid-Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e306	The National Audit Office’s accounting audit is a central document for the control of the government by the Storting. Fortunately, most of the audit letters are issued without any comments, but for 2005 23 final audit letters with comments have been issued, approximately the same number as the previous year. The most serious thing is that about half of these, twelve businesses, also received comments in relation to the 2004 accounts. In this respect, I would like to stress that it is very essential that the establishments and departments systematically follow up the comments of the Riksrevision. In particular, in relation to departments with large underlying establishments, it is important, in order to ensure a systematic follow-up of this type of criticism and comments, to develop procedures that allow for close and good follow-up. As the rapporteur for the part of the document dealing with the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I would like to make a few comments on these areas. As far as the other areas are concerned, I would point out that the Committee is very much in agreement on points of reference in the vast majority of areas. I am therefore also referring to the statements by the rapporteurs that have been made and that will be kept, and to the comments in the vote in these areas. As far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, the Riksrevision has issued a final audit letter with comments on several points to the Directorate of Police — that is, the Ministry of Justice’s main activity. These include: pointed out weaknesses in ICT management in the police and relief services. In particular, it has been highlighted that there is a lack of adequate back-up solutions in the event of a serious incident, lack of risk and materiality assessments regarding information in police systems and lack of comprehensive risk assessments for all ICT systems. This is serious. The Ministry has indicated that improvements are being made to ensure the quality of data services. Let me then stress that it is important that this be followed up, and I expect that there will be no basis for similar comments from the National Audit Office next time. In general, the National Audit Office has asked questions about the internal control of the Ministry of Justice and the activities of the judiciary and whether the Ministry is adequately responsible for its follow-up. Also, these are references I expect the Council of State to grasp and do something about. As far as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is concerned, the Riksrevision has, among other things: addressed the management of grants in the field of assistance, the practice of overtime and corruption in the context of assistance. It is positive that the Ministry has taken action to improve procedures in several areas identified by the National Audit Office. Good practices are important to detect corruption and to see if aid is being used on the basis of assumptions. NORFUND has been widely discussed in the press in the last year. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Riksrevision is now conducting a detailed study of the activities of NORFUND and will await its outcome. Let me just finally fix an error in the setting on page 55, second column. The section beginning with ‘The Committee has taken note’ shall state that ‘The Court of Auditors has comments’, not ‘The Government’, as it says in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e329	I will first say something about the core of the Committee's comments to the Ministry of Transport. The Audit and Constitutional Committee has noted that the Riksrevision has significant observations on the accounts of the State Road Administration, the Railway Agency and the Air Safety Authority. These activities represent more than the majority of the department's responsibilities, and therefore this is very serious, and the committee assumes that the department follows up its comments. The National Audit Office has led to extensive review and criticism of the Ministry’s lack of control of the licenses for the restructuring of Mesta AS in the period 2003–2005. In short, it is almost NOK 1 billion that would cover restructuring costs for the human resources area, i.e. early retirement, service retirement and the continuation of the special age limit, and various removal costs, as expressed by the Budgetary Department. S. No 13 for 2002-2003. On February 7th, there was an open check-up on exactly this matter. The audio input string is an attachment to this setting. The hearing was informative and meaningful, and the Committee agrees on the following: It is critical that the Riksrevision has not been given access to documentation that will allow the subsequent verification of the benefits of restructuring. The hearing has otherwise made it probable that the funds were used in line with the Storing's intentions and intentions. But that's not the main score for the Control and Constitutional Committee. The size of the control task here is to draw attention to the fact that the use of such permissions should be easily traceable. It is decisive that the Ministry documents the disposal of such promises in a way that is satisfactory for the Riksrevision and the Storting and is in addition in line with its Financial Regulation. In addition, the Committee has taken the view that the current owner of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Mesta AS, provides the Stortinget with a comprehensive statement on how Mesta AS has disposed of the restructuring instruments in question. I would also like to mention that the Committee has noticed that the Riksrevision again has comments on the Ministry of Transport's management of underlying enterprises. The Ministry stated in a letter dated 18 October 2006 that it will be working to make the control signal more measurable. A joint committee suggested that the department follow up this promise. So to the Committee's comments on the Riksrevision's revision of how the Ministry of Health and Health implemented the 2005 budget. The progress point has at this point a proposal of its own, which I think they themselves want to record. The National Audit Office has filed serious criticisms against the Cancer Register, under Health South. The Register of Cancer has its own fund. The National Audit Office is critical that this Fund has been allocated funds — calculated on the basis of the indirect costs of the Registry of Cancer — through agreements between the Registry of Cancer and external parties. The National Audit Service believes that the establishment of such a fund alongside the main business, but for the same purpose, may involve a risk of manipulation of the budget and accounting. The Committee believes that the Riksrevision has a critical point. In letters to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, dated 19 February, the Council of State wrote among others: that the Register of Cancer has taken action to improve ‘management, control and stability’, in light of the comments of the National Audit Office. The Committee has also noted that the same letter promises that the Ministry will carry out an audit on this matter in order to confirm that the measures outlined in the letter are actually implemented. The Committee takes the view that the Ministry should inform the Council of this follow-up in its own right. In addition, the Committee proposed that the Ministry should both implement and brief the Stortinget on a comprehensive review of all aspects of the activities of the Kreftregister. There are many other issues within the Ministry of Health and Welfare that have been the subject of special attention. Time doesn't allow me to go into detail when it comes to it. The most alarming thing is the criticism that has been directed at regional health professionals, especially at Health Mid-Norway. But when it comes to all these comments, one – as I understand it – is in dialogue with the department, and from the committee we suggest that they are followed up in turn and in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e360	This debate obviously does not arouse much interest among our colleagues, but it is gratifying to see that there is an ever-increasing presence on the government bench and in the diplomat lodge. Maybe that's where the most important audiences sit — in a case where you look back, and where you have to learn from it to avoid new comments. I want to point out, like several, the worrying fact that half of the businesses that received comments in their closing audit letter in 2005 also got it the year before. Several of the weaknesses identified in 2004 have not been addressed. It is serious, because it has been found that there are shortcomings in the ethos management which are the reason why the decisions and assumptions of the Storting have not been sufficiently followed up. It is also a horizontal and worrying feature that in a number of establishments, public procurement legislation has been breached. This applies, inter alia, to: the rules on competition, non-discrimination, transparency and reprobability. Even the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, which has the overall responsibility for the legislation, is not in a position to do so. The measures presented by the Minister of Renewal and Administration in the debate on 18 January of this year have been taken in the right direction, and we must assume that this will produce results. Current reviews of the companies that have received comments must show that governance in this area has been strengthened. Of the establishments for which the Ministry of Labour and Employment are responsible, four out of 14 have received an audit letter with comments. It is serious that several defects and deficiencies that have been reported in the past have not been satisfactorily followed up. The national audit has revealed a lack of target achievement in terms of vocational rehabilitation and rehabilitation. An overall committee shall require that this area be given a high priority, as foreseen by the Storting. It has been known for several years that there have been weaknesses in the communication of hearing aids. It is therefore unacceptable that nothing has been done to solve the problems. Measures have been announced to be put in order since the New Year. However, when an overall committee underlines the importance of providing users with a satisfactory system until a permanent system is in place and asks for feedback in Document No. 1 for the next year, there's an emphasis on the seriousness of the fact that this has not been taken better into account at an earlier time. The national audit criticises the security of information in the social security system’s large-scale machinery environment. There are several shortcomings in the procedures. Several of these weaknesses were identified as early as 2001. The seriousness of this was the background to the Committee conducting a hearing, where the Council of State made it clear that he took the comments seriously and that he has taken action to remedy the situation. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare shall document the actions through a dedicated reporting system. An overall committee assumes that the development of the deficiencies identified is a high priority and is also reflected in the forthcoming audit reviews. I would also like to point out that there are weaknesses in Aeta's internal day money management procedures. This applies, inter alia, to: the lack of traceability of the children for whom support is sought, the lack of evidence of payment to jobseekers during training and weaknesses in the review process. It is important that such weaknesses be corrected, as announced by the Council of State in its comments on the audit report. It is important to avoid doubting whether payments through our common welfare systems are the way they should be. The Committee also points out in its referral that the Riksaudition has significant comments on the management of the grant scheme for contractual pensions and would stress the need to establish sound control mechanisms for the significant resources managed by this scheme. As regards the Ministry of Defence, it is gratifying to note that there has been a positive development in the financial management of the Defence in 2005. Three out of four companies have received audit letters without comments, but in the case of the Defence Military Organisation, there are still issues that need to be corrected. However, it is disappointing that in 2005 it was not possible to prevent the payment of wages and salaries. It's not acceptable with an error payment of well 24 million. kr and this is assumed to be rectified.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e390	The 2005 accounts of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs have a expenditure budget of NOK 73.2 billion. The largest transfers are to municipalities and county councils and amount to 48.6 billion kroner. To learn from history, other departments can take a look at the budget management procedures of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. We are pleased to note that the Court of Auditors does not have any material observations on any of the accounts. It is good to take seriously the work of risk assessment and internal control in the underlying companies and to continue to do so, in order to establish internal control systems and procedures. The Committee expects this work to be completed as soon as possible. Nor are there any comments on the government’s management of the State’s interests in the Municipal Bank of AS. With regard to the Ministry of Knowledge, which had a budget of DKK 60.4 billion in 2005, fewer institutions receive an audit letter with a note in 2005 than in 2004. The various measures undertaken by the Ministry to improve the quality of accounts and compliance with the rules have produced positive results. But in one area it goes the wrong way. Unused state appropriations at universities and colleges have now risen in the net amount of NOK 2.3 billion. Therefore, the Government must ensure that a greater responsibility is taken to ensure that the institutions implement their budgets in accordance with the conditions for the appropriations. At universities and higher education institutions, there was an increase of 285 million in committed funds between 2004 and 2005. kr. No one can be satisfied with this. There is a need for a stronger follow-up in the future, and control is important if we are not to risk getting criticism that too much money prevents a desired development. The Committee has found the facility entered into by NTNU for the sale of property for hire-back for 30 years in order to contravene the rules on the allocation. This is serious, because the Riksrevisions asked for clarification on the property authorisation already in the 2004 accounts. This matter is also about showing respect for the National Audit Office, which acts as the Supervisory Board on behalf of Stortinget. It is positive that public acquisition rules are broken less now than before and that institutions are asked to introduce electronic support systems for such acquisitions, but it must be timely to ask why they should be broken at all. It may have something to do with leadership, perhaps empathy for what the procurement rules are intended to prevent, and the standards to be applied where this is practised. Furthermore, the Riksrevision has a note on the administration of student relations by the Council of State. There has been an improvement in student relationships’ accounts from previous years, but there are still a number of issues that need to be taken seriously. The other rapporteurs have also mentioned this, the mistakes that are repeated year after year. There's an overall committee that's behind the comments, and I recommend the Storting to join these.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e412	The government will sort out in the purchasing root of the Riksrevision, because the Riksrevision's report was not satisfactory both for the Ministry of Renewal and Administration and for a number of other departments and their agencies. In addition to addressing the problems in-house, I immediately sent letters to all the departments where I asked them to ensure that the legislation was complied with by their own purchase. I also asked the state councils in each department seven to make these rules more remarkable than it indicates that they have. This spring we have a new round with the departments. I have been told that all changes are being made. A wide range of measures have been taken. Improvements are being made in guidelines and routines, additions are being made to courses, new purchasing strategies, new templates and internal control mechanisms are being developed, and a focus is being placed on the procurement rules of the etat management. I cannot guarantee that this work is sufficient to ensure that the government works break the procurement law, but, as the representative Lodve Solholm also said, I expect a clear improvement. Checking for the rules to follow is not a single job. It's a continuous work. Since procurement is a delegated responsibility, it is up to each individual leader to assume this responsibility and to syste to keep a constant focus on the rules. However, we need to put in place a number of key measures to facilitate good compliance with the rules. I had several of the rules in the interpellation debate to which it had been referred: the lack of willingness to announce the purchase was now met with sanctions because the complaint subject of public procurement, KOFA, has been authorised to charge a fee of up to 15 p.m. of the purchase value of an illegal direct purchase. The circle of people who can bring this kind of thing to KOFA has been expanded. KOFA has been a success in many ways and is an important factor in its efforts to comply with procurement rules. However, the handling time in KOFA has been a problem, and a number of large-scale representatives have pointed it out in previous debates. That's why we have good news to come with today. Before the end of this month, KOFA will have completed all the 163 cases that came in during 2006, in addition to dealing with some of the cases that came in this year. They have been able to do this because the government has increased the permissions of KOFA both last year and last year. In order to keep up with this good trend, I have asked in a letter that they should aim not to exceed three months, i.e. the average processing time. that, on average, no more than three months shall elapse between one supplier sending its first letter to KOFA until the matter has been clarified by complaints and purchases, the Secretariat has handled the matter and has decided. This is a target that itself finds it realistic to reach the autumn. We have also strengthened the protocol obligation, so that this debt from the purchase over NOK 100,000. This will also allow small purchases to be verified, and the Protocol will allow a verification of compliance with the competition requirement. As we know, violations of procurement law have several reasons. Both lack of will and lack of knowledge can be the causes. In order to address the lack of knowledge of the rules, the Ministry of Renewal and Administration has issued a comprehensive guide that provides a wide coverage of the new and simplified legislation, which was in force from 1 January this year. In the context of the practical purchase linked to a purchase, there will always be concrete problems and evaluations that cannot be resolved through a general guide. Therefore, I have started a project to look at possible measures that can provide a strong provision of guidance and information on public procurement and related legislation. Another important and forward-looking approach to reducing number breaks is to get public purchasers to use electronic business processes and e-commerce. By putting it into service, we get simpler and safer purchasing processes. It provides less administration, less time spent and better quality in the purchasing process, both for the individual enterprise, for the suppliers and not least for the audit. Another important argument is that there are fewer errors and better management and control by being able to track electronically. As part of efforts to increase the use of e-commerce in the State sector, the Ministry of Renewal and Administration has assisted the Departments in their efforts to arrive at objectives, strategies and plans for their procurement, including electronic processes. Many departments are now in the process of establishing or revising their procurement strategy. As Stortinget is, the government of Stoltenberg has taken great note of the procurement code. We expect every single enterprise to focus on the procurement rules in the future, so that in the future we will avoid a repetition of this year's extensive comments from the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e443	I want to start by thanking the Council of State for the presentation of the article now. I am pleased that action is being taken in all the departments where comments have been made. However, I did not record that the Council of State said anything about the areas where there have been repetitions, where comments were also received the year before, i.e. in 2004. My question to the Council of State is: What action will be taken? Will special instruments be used for those departments that have sinned — to put it that way — repeatedly? Is it possible to get an answer as to whether these will receive special attention?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e450	We haven't given the departments that have now randomly broken two years in a row, special attention. Several of these may have broken several times, without it being in consecutive years. The most important thing is that all those who have received comments from the Riksrevision address their procedures and how they make purchases, and go through the whole system, both concretely in their own departments and not least in the underlying etats. At least I would say that for my part, one fraction is too much. Some of these were also quite extensive and should never have happened. I mean, the system that we're now getting, and the review that every department now is running, captures whether it's one, two or three fractions. The problem needs to be solved. The challenge is that it will not happen again. Whether there are large or small sinners in this case, I should not have said. There may be one fraction that has been very large, and that in some cases is perhaps larger than two small ones, so that we can try not to differentiate between large and small, but make sure that everyone does their job.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e457	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e460	The Committee has, in its opinion, criticised several points in the Ministry’s governance of the Children’s, Youth and Family Catastrophes, after the Riksrevision had significant comments on the implementation of the budget of the Bufetat for 2005. I would like to stress that I am very serious about these comments and the criticisms of the Committee. We have therefore taken note of the comments of the Riksrevision and have taken action to improve the department's internal governance and management and follow-up of Bufatat. I have also called on Bufetat to take the necessary action to remedy the situation identified by the Riksrevision. Several of the identified deficiencies have now been addressed and further measures have been put in place to ensure that all conditions are corrected. In retrospect, we can see that there were optimistic estimates for this reform, both in terms of the speed with which the change was to take place and in terms of the speed with which a large savings could be made. At the same time, I believe it is important that we keep up the pressure to improve the use of resources in the protection of state children. A number of measures have therefore been taken in the field and new measures will be launched. We already see the results of this work, because the cost growth in the floor is reduced from 10 pst. the actual last year of the county to less than 6 pst. In 2006, at the same time, there was an increase in the number of children in the national child protection system of about 7 pst. In the same period, there are, among other things, new evidence-based methods to improve the quality of services. Efforts to reduce expenditure growth and improve the quality of child protection must continue. The Ministry launched an external review of national child protection in December 2006. The review should focus on the use of resources and governance in the state child protection sector, for example. having regard to the observations of the National Audit Office on the accounts for 2004 and 2005, and to the assessment of the Ministry's own management of the establishment. ECON received the assignment and has now delivered its report to the department. The Ministry will inform about the results of the review and follow-up of the Ministry in the context of the revised national budget for 2007. The National Audit Office is now carrying out an administrative audit of the entire national child protection system to be published for the autumn. I look forward to receiving the results of the audit, which hopefully will be very useful in our further work. After the National Audit Office has presented its findings, the Ministry will carry out a broad evaluation of the entire reform after the State assumes responsibility for the protection of children from the county. This evaluation will address both professional and economic developments and the achievement of the objectives. The Ministry sees that there are still challenges in the governance and resource use of state child protection. We address these challenges to make sure that the children who need it get good and proper help. I am pleased that the Committee stresses the importance of this work. I would also like to support what Mr Brørby said in his speech, namely that the children who need the community's care and help will have it. I want to say that this government has used every opportunity in every budget round we've had over the one and a half years we've been in power, to add more money to the state child protection. We have taken responsibility, and we have until now, in a year and a half, submitted approx. 600 million. kr to the State Children's Protection. It's because the most vulnerable and most vulnerable children deserve community help.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e479	The Ministry of Health and Welfare is known to be responsible for a number of establishments with different organisational links. In relation to our overall objective of ensuring good and efficient health and care services for the population, good finances and accounting skills are needed at all levels of business. In the follow-up by the Ministry to the matters referred to by the Riksrevision and dealt with by the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, I would like to highlight the following points: First of all, I took note of the comments made by the Committee in connection with the Riksrevision's comments on the Cancer Register. The audit referred to in the letter to Stortinget of 12 February 2007, point No. 4 has been implemented and the aspects referred to in Document No. So 1 is going to be followed up. The funds that were unlawfully transferred to the fund have now been returned to the Register of Cancer and registered in the accounts there. The Fund will thereafter, and as foreseen from its establishment, consist only of donations. The private contracts for some employees have been terminated. The case was also specifically followed up at the business meetings of the regional health establishments in January of this year. I believe it is necessary, in the light of the facts pointed out by the National Audit Office, to also assess whether the Register of Cancer is properly organised. In this context, one will have to look at different solutions, including the possible organisation outside the health business system. The size of the size will be appropriately orientated. The Ministry of Health and Health is working closely with the Directorate for Social and Health to improve the description of objectives and the reporting of results. In the light of the criticism of the National Audit Office by the Social and Health Directorate and the use of the Pandora grant system, the Ministry and the Directorate have carried out a review of the subject area. Weaknesses in the grant system have now been corrected. It is clarified that the whole organisation is to put the system into service, while at the same time requiring competence and the responsibility of the management for quality control of the processes. I have also noticed that the Committee shares the Riksrevision's objections to the process of concluding agreements between two health companies and Eurosleep Øst AS. Already in the autumn of 2006 I instructed the companies to clean up this, and the agreements have been terminated. I am very concerned that there should be no ambiguity in the relationship between private and public healthcare providers and that the rules on public procurement should be followed by all healthcare providers. In terms of balance sheet requirements, the corrected annual profit for 2005 showed a deficit of approximately DKK 1.4 billion. Health Mid-Norway and Health Nord achieved significantly worse results than the owner's management requirements. I have strengthened the requirements for reporting and monitoring the economic situation of regional health businesses in both 2006 and so far in 2007. The reporting framework has been extended in terms of both economy, manpower, quality and activity. All health regions now need to report monthly to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, and there is also a need to report deviations in performance for the individual health business. My ministry has frequent follow-up meetings, and I have also asked regional health companies to go through their organisations to ensure that they have the right and adequate financial competence at all stages. In relation to Health Mid-Norway, the Riksrevision has pointed out a lack of follow-up to the owner’s management requirements from Health Mid-Norway in 2005. This is a serious matter, which I already addressed in January 2006. Then, as you know, the board of directors and the rest of the board of the regional health company were replaced. I have been following closely the development of this regional health company since then. Fortunately, significant changes are now taking place both in the way the regional health undertaking organises itself in relation to its underlying health enterprises and in the governance procedures that are and will be established. I have also noticed that the Riksrevision has criticised the fact that experts in management positions have been paid overtime in breach of the provisions of the Main Tariff Agreement. This has been dealt with by the Ministry with the National Institute for Public Health and the Ministry has been given confirmation that, in any case, the Institute will not impose overtime on its staff in breach of the provisions of the Main Tariff Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e496	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2857]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e512	User rights and renewal of the public sector have been key targets for changing governments throughout the 1990s and until today. There is a broad consensus that users should be put at the centre and that public services should be adapted to individual needs. The purpose of the National Audit Office’s study is to explain whether these objectives have been followed up in practice and whether measures have actually been implemented in line with the Stortingen’s intention to use public services. The study looks at what measures have been taken and whether these have led to improved services: how are user surveys used, and to what extent does the Ministry of Renewal and Administration play its role as driving and coordinator towards the sectoral departments? The study is broad in scope, including: with questionnaires for 165 State activities, analyses based on letters of allocation for a total of 131 activities and annual reports for 103 activities in the years 2003 to 2004. Furthermore, special attention has been paid to the services of the police and the county council, the social security system and the tax system. The study has also included local offices. The Ministry of Renewal and Administration, together with the Stortinget, has overall responsibility for the formulation of management policy — it must be the driving force and coordinator of sectoral ministries in administrative policy matters. The Ministry has also developed action plans for the renewal of the public sector, where user involvement has been a key objective. Efforts at public service offices, service declarations and procedural deadlines are among the measures the Ministry has initiated. Neither the Ministry of Trade nor the underlying establishments included in the survey have experienced the ministry as an active driver of the work. In fact, there is little provision for exchange of experience and initiatives across the ministerial boundaries. Such a system appears to be well on the way to taking initiatives to systematise and disseminate experience from successful actions to the other departments at all times in the FAD. Consequently, the level of user-righting of services will depend to a large extent on the individual State Council’s commitment to this task. As I see it, it's an important task, which it's desirable for the department to address. The depth study of the three priority stages shows that the level of management signals from the general ministry has an impact on the efforts made by the enterprise to ensure the correctness of the user services. Deficiencies in user rights by the Ministry reflect poor reporting. The Ministry’s focus on user rights in the management dialogue is therefore crucial to the enterprise’s commitment. The overall objective is to adapt public administration to the needs of users. 78 pst. one or more user surveys of the State establishments surveyed have been carried out over the last five years. At that time, it is quite noticeable that only 12 of the 118 enterprises in total have reported that they have largely used user surveys to develop business services. The implementation of such studies requires considerable resources, both human and economic. If they are not intended to be used, there is reason to ask questions about whether this is a reasonable way to use the resources. However, initially, I believe that state-owned enterprises should exploit the potential of user surveys to further develop services for the benefit of users and also to streamline their services. More and more public services have become available on data in recent years. This has made access easier for many people. However, the National Audit Office’s study shows that ICT-based services cannot replace personal contacts and that a variety of offers and instruments are required to meet users’ needs. These are the experiences that we all have had. Many people still want personal contact and need to ask their own questions, not just use keyboard buttons for choices as an alternative. There is therefore reason to stress that investment in ICT measures alone is not sufficient to provide users with the services that are desirable and that different instruments are needed. In its survey, the Riksrevision shows that it is in fact far ahead of the Grand Duchy’s objective of user-righting services. I am pleased that the ministry now considers the study to be a very important contribution to this work, and we in Stortinget are meeting the outcome of the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e538	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2857]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e554	There is an overall committee which refers to the National Audit Office’s examination of the establishment of excise duties in the customs and tax haven, and which in this setting underlines the importance of the follow-up of the Government’s observations by the National Audit Office. We point out that the purpose of the survey has been to assess whether excise duties are properly and efficiently imposed. In addition to analysing the extent and causes of changes in the initial determinations for selected excise duties, the Committee also sees the importance of their consequences. Where it is important that there should be proper charging for all, it is because there should be no discrimination and distortion of competition between different actors competing with each other. They must be guaranteed the same treatment and the same tax determinations by the authorities on the same products. The Committee records the Court of Auditors’ observations that self-declaration without effective control poses a significant risk of non-compliance with the obligations arising from the tax decisions. If there are companies that themselves declare and they know that there is little control, it is clear that they may be tempted to ‘make mistakes’ in self-declaration. Some people then manage to reduce the tax through their incorrect self-declaration, and then there is a distortion of competition. So here it's important that it's effective control, and that you realize that if you try, it can be discovered. Non-discrimination between the companies competing is important. The Committee considers that effective control is a prerequisite for the determination of excise duties to be based on self-declaration. We also refer to the National Audit Office’s comment, which shows that, although increased control is not expected to give corresponding increase in the back-up calculations, they ask whether the scope of control is too low in relation to the extent of changes and post-calculations — that is, the prevention effect of control itself is important. The Committee has also noted that the tariff and tax rate does not necessarily have an overview of previous decisions on charging issues — such an overview would ensure coordinated regulatory management. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance to explain whether action can be taken, so that, at least in some way, previous decisions are brought together in order for case handlers to have access to decisions taken elsewhere or in general bodies – i.e. a reference book with previous decisions on charging issues. That should make a lot of sense. The Committee is also surprised at the results of the study, which shows that the overall average duration of treatment for complaints was nine months — the customs region spent two months, and the Directorate needed a full seven-month treatment period. The Committee considers that the proposal of the Riksrevision that the tariff and levy rate should also consider the introduction of the same set performance requirements for appeal proceedings in the tax rate within the VAT system is a good proposal, which could, in all likelihood, improve the service of the establishment vis-à-vis business. I would also ask the Minister of Finance to consider this proposal from the Riksrevision and to make some points of view on how she will deal with this. We all agree that waiting nine months for a complaint case to set a fee is unacceptable for a long time. Economic operators depend on having a correct basis of calculation for their products when resold. Often they have not expected the goods to be in stock for nine months. You have to know this before, so a faster processing time will make sense. Finally, the members of the Progress Party are of the opinion that the time for dealing with complaints should not really be more than one month, either in the customs regions or in the Customs and Tax Directorate. We also believe that it could be appropriate to consider a mechanism where the fee is reduced by a long period of time, both as a compensation to taxable persons for the disadvantage suffered and as an incentive for the public to increase efficiency. It might be interesting to hear what the Minister of Finance thinks about it. That should be a good principle of justice, which I hope the Minister of Finance will agree with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e573	Firstly, we are very pleased with the review carried out by the National Audit Office of the customs office and the references to weaknesses that it refers to. It gives the customs office an opportunity to get even better than it is today. I am also pleased that the Committee is thorough in its review of what has been the Court's observations. It's doing a very good job all over the country in the customs department. Many of the arguments that come both from the Riksrevision and from the Stortinget are good contributions for the Minister of Finance in the fight for next year's government budget, because it is clear that there is always a question of resources and how to prioritise resources. It is not that finance ministers are usually only in line to ask for increases in their areas. I therefore take this support from Stortinget to those rounds. But you can never blame just on resource issues. It's also about how to organise a service. I've noticed what it's about bringing together and systematizing previous decisions, so that it becomes clearer what the background is, and so that one can ensure a greater degree of non-discrimination. So I have noticed the complaint handling time. I fully agree with Mr Hagen that seven months of appeal proceedings in the Directorate are too long, and that there is a great desire to have work better organised and resources deployed, so that the appeal proceedings can be speeded up. Finally, the proposal put forward by the Party for its own convenience, namely that, if the appeal procedure is too long, the fee should be reduced, which should be a good incentive. Now it's not like the customs office or other public agencies that collect taxes and taxes have some kind of commission, so I'm not quite sure if this would be a super incentive in that way, except that the Treasury would suffer from it. I think it is very gratifying that the rapporteur, Mr Hagen, is so concerned about the customs tariff, as far as I can remember from the last year's budget, was not the customs duty rate among the agencies that the Progress Party's alternative government budget proposed to strengthen. On the contrary, with the alternative state budget of the Advance Party, we would have had much less opportunity to operate this control and non-discrimination. So I look forward to further support from the Progress Party in the next budgetary round.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e590	Then it is expressed as desired. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2857]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e612	The Norwegian economy is going well. Business goes on high. All arrows point upwards, and the temperature of the economy is high, perhaps on the way to getting too high. The labour shortage is now the overwhelming problem for very many companies, and the Minister of Finance has said that she sleeps poorly at night thinking about this. This interpellance has therefore been promoted partly in the hope of improving the night sleep of the Minister of Finance and partly in the hope of contributing to the Government's dialogue with the Stortinget, which has at least been stated in the past. We have seen a strong change in the Norwegian economy in the last four to five years. We will not go back further than until winter 2002, when the Governor of the Central Bank said that ‘Norwegian economy was in bad shape’. It was, and it called for action in several areas. Incentives were required for competitive business such as high-priced, over-interested and over-costed as compared to competitors in other countries. There was a need for measures that could create growth and more jobs. It called for a budgetary policy that could bring down the Special Norse interest rate level and thus also weaken it for the strong currency. It also required tax relief for enterprises, and it required a lower level of interest in order to increase investment in new jobs. It had to pay off for people to work rather than being passive recipients of social security or other benefits, and therefore reductions in the marginal tax on income tax were necessary. At the same time, we had a situation where labour costs significantly increased the overall cost picture, despite the fact that we had a government that should have had the best opportunities for moderate, good wage development cooperation with the employee side. Nevertheless, it went from wrong to worse in the winter after the government change. Through budgetary and fiscal policies, the previous government provided a basis to reverse this trend. And it was reversed – from a unemployment that worried when Stoltenberg went off for the first time in 2001, through a gradually very positive development under the Bondevik II government to a situation where there is now an unimaginably strong pressure in the labour market, and where businesses are simply not able to recruit labour. The shortage of labour is excruciating in almost all industries. There are more job vacancies than jobseekers, leading to production restrictions and payroll pressures. It requires other measures to increase labour supply. Imports of labour have been and will be significant. It is a theme to facilitate more efficient labour immigration, not least through the amendment of transitional rules from new EU countries. From the Government's side, a lot of work is done here. Too many people are outside the labour market – there is also a separate theme with which the Government should do something more effective than what has been done so far. There are many measures that together affect the growth of the economy and the supply of work. However, the correlation between the importance of the level of taxation for establishment and increased activity has been demonstrated through many studies, at the latest in a 15-year tax study from KPMG, which shows that lower corporate taxes have a positive impact on the growth of the economy. A response from the Ministry a few days ago, to a question from the undersigned, shows that the Council of State is more concerned with referring to other explanations of economic growth than lower taxes — in so far as it is not entirely unexpected. Of course, the level of taxation is not the only factor of importance, but it is striking that there is no more emphasis on a matter as important as the level of taxation. In addition, Norway has its special tax on start-ups, the property tax, which also inhibits growth. Similarly, too high income taxes, especially high marginal taxes, also have a negative effect on the supply of work. American Edward Prescott, who won the Nobel Prize in Economics in 2004, together with North Finn E. Kydland, has seen in two major surveys the relationship between labour supply and labour marginal tax. This survey shows that in countries that have increased marginal taxation and their tax levels over a period, such as France, Germany and Italy, a fall in labour supply will occur in parallel with the tax increases. Once again, it means falling in total value creation, in growth, in total tax revenue and ultimately in welfare. The study shows that compared with e.g. The US tax level could significantly increase the well-being of some European countries if the level of taxation was reduced. The question is why Europeans, who actually have higher productivity than Americans, choose to work so much less, and the answer is far on the road to taxation, according to Prescott's study. It's actually possible that you don't have to have the Nobel Prize in Economics to see this. It probably keeps with some experience from its personal economy and from its personal relationship with the labour market. The potential for increased income stimulates efforts whether they receive increased wages or by retaining more of what you earn. The results of the Prescott studies are overwhelming. Europeans worked more than Americans in the 1970s, much less in the 1990s, and estimates show that most of the lower labour input is due to increased tax levels. It is supported by the variations between the two periods examined. In the first period, for example: Germany only marginally higher labour input than America — the marginal tax was equal in America during both periods. As the Germans increased this, labour input was significantly reduced. The same figures are found for developments in France and Italy. A study of a tax reform in Spain was also carried out in 1998 which flattened the progress somewhat more. This helped to increase the labour supply by 12 p.m. and, of course, tax revenues increased. We saw the same thing in Norway after the tax law policy of the Bondevik II government. It's the final result that each one has left, which means something. People are not just concerned with what they pay into the community, and what universal welfare solutions this contributes to. Most people are concerned about taking responsibility for their well-being either by working more or by keeping more of the salary they have for what they have already worked. Trust in own disposal capabilities very often exceeds the confidence in the responsibility for redistribution of the State. The dependency of households on their employee income is central. The level of taxation is a significant part of individual employee income. This means that dependence on changes in the level of taxation is most likely to be very high and affects the behaviour of the labour supply. It is therefore a very poor tool to increase labour supply that taxes on the full average labour income are increased, as is done under this government. In a heated economy, it is also important to provide the necessary labour supply that savings are made more profitable. It takes the pressure away from private consumption. Private saving should therefore be stimulated because it reduces the pressure on the economy and thus reduces the pressure on interest rates and on housing costs. But here too the government is going the wrong way. Frontal attacks have taken place on all the savings of private property. We have seen that in the conversion of IPA systems and annuity schemes. Although it has, in fact, become obfuscated again, a very well-functioning savings scheme for nearly a million people is significantly mutilated and will have lost a great deal of its stabilising power to the social economy. We see this by increasing the price of housing and by increasing the taxes on wealth saving in business by removing the stock discount on unlisted shares and unit trusts. That's how 1.5 million Northmen save. Increased taxation of such savings will distort resource use from social saving and investment in business and consumption. The property tax is a direct tax on saving and investment. Now I do not expect any positive feedback in this interpellation on the exact property tax – the feedback we received in the questionnaire here before Easter from the Council of State, as she said she did not see any reason to lubricate private owners with tax reliefs in order to obtain investment in Norwegian business. For those of us who believe that the investment in Norwegian business is actually what creates the well-being of Norwegian society, it appears to be a more than a thoughtful opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e642	Let us first be glad that we have a historically low unemployment in Norway – I think perhaps the representative Fleet was near to regret that there is now such a favourable situation in the labour market. The starting point for this debate, I think, is that low unemployment is the most important thing to achieve in economic policy, because it means that we are using the resource that is of the greatest value to us, namely labour, the best. This means that many of those who were previously out of the labour market get a share in a social community, but also increased income after having been on low social security or on social assistance. It is true that we have now had a very strong growth in employment: 77 000 people in Norway over the last year. It's the largest growth in employment ever. It is strong for people over 55 years of age, among young workers and among workers with a minority background. This means that groups like previously, perhaps just a few years ago, were almost stamped as a little unattractive labour – for example. workers over 55 years of age – now seen as a much larger resource than before. It's very important. It's a very important goal for our government that we can keep this up. So the question is, what is the main reason for this favourable situation on the labour market? Is it the tax relief from the previous government that makes us get where we are, or is it the other relationship? There is nothing in our background figures that would suggest that it is the tax policy of the previous government that is primarily a drag to do so, that is. We don't find any sign that that's what's driving. We are well placed in the midst of an international boom, we have good prices for what we export – whether it be oil and gas or other export values – and we import more and more goods cheaper and cheaper. This means that as a nation we are in the middle of the butter eye and benefit from an international boom. All that we have from background figures in terms of tax revenue, etc., is also very much explained primarily by the economic situation. At the same time, however, we still have a significant group outside the labour market. We know that many of them want to be active and in work. It now gives us a unique opportunity to continue the work of getting more groups into it. It's e.g. so that the unemployment rate among people with disabilities who have the opportunity to participate in the labour market whose conditions are set up is still too high and that we are not good enough to see what resources are available here. To get to that part of the job, we now have a wide range of tools going on. It is primarily about ensuring that we have an active welfare policy. That is what we are presenting in the context of the NAV reform and other types of change, but we also need to look at whether there are some improvements we can make in the tax system that will mean that we are turning resource use in the right direction. It is important to say that the incentives we have in the tax system in Norway in relation to work work work work together works well, while there is a reduction in the tax on low and middle incomes that we know may affect the supply of work and that more people want to participate more in wage work. It's not among high-paid, full-time men there's so much more to mobilise by reducing taxes. Among low-paid, part-time women, taxes and marginal taxes can have a mobilising factor in terms of participation in professional life. This may be one of the reasons for wanting to have a higher job break, and it is therefore necessary to look at the efforts towards that group. So that's not how the representative fleet gives the impression, that these are people who haven't been taxed by this government. They have. We have reduced the minimum deduction, with an effect of approx. 2 billion in 2006 and 2007. It is in line with our policy on distribution, but it also has a good impact on the supply of work. Then you have to be aware that the issue of fiscal policy is just one of many possible factors in relation to the labour market. But if it's labour incentives you're primarily concerned with, then it's important to think about the opposite of what the Right usually did in tax policy, where the biggest taxes come at the top and the revenue that's the largest. There is probably the least opportunity to get more work done on the labour market. So a few words about saving. Although there may now be danger signals in relation to some of the younger ones, when we look at how many people are borrowing, for example. 100 pst. in order to invest in its first dwelling, and the number of contracts for the right to deduct over many years, there is reason to give very clear signals to these groups that one has to expect that the level of interest will in the future be significantly higher than what has historically been done, because we are now reaching a more normalised level, in line with the interest rate path envisaged by the Bank of Norway. However, we do not have any points of view to say that there is too little overall savings in Norway today. The financial position of households as a whole must be said to be reasonably good, and the debt growth we have seen has been largely counterbalanced by corresponding increases in receivables. Although one should assume that there is too little saving, it is unlikely that the use of tax-advanced schemes is a suitable means of increasing savings. I understood it so on the Fleet that it was his motive to propose this. What we have from research into tax incentives in terms of saving is that it helps shift savings, that already existing savings are shifted to new and tax-advanced schemes. The result of these types of schemes will then be a very large increase in returns for people who are already saving. In addition, the distribution profile in relation to these tax incentives would be poor, because there are largely people who already have high wealth or high income using such schemes. Everything we have, for example. with regard to the distribution effects of the IPA scheme that were pointing in that direction. The only argument you can then have for some tax-favored schemes is that one wants people to save just in that product rather than in others. It's e.g. the discussion around the IPA mechanism. Now it's the way our government has shifted the tax incentives. That was the starting point before the tax settlement in Stortinget. We moved the tax incentives from the IPA scheme that was, and into an occupational pension scheme that was going to reach everyone. We also opened up the possibility that self-employed people could save in this occupational pension scheme. What is at issue is not a general discussion about the liquidation of tax incentives, but a desire from the opposition in the Storting to re-establish the IPA scheme or a tax-advanced pension savings scheme. Now there is part of the pension agreement in Stortinget, and I believe that our government's starting point in this matter was fully justified both professionally and politically. So I'm not going to go into all the claims of the representative Fleet and references to different research assignments or reports without going through them, but I would be very careful to maintain the US and US welfare systems and tax systems as the great ideal of fiscal policy. First of all, productivity growth and development in Norway, with the Nordic welfare model, are fully aligned with the US system, which provides a much larger difference society than we have. Secondly, many with low incomes in the United States are unable to support themselves and their own family over what we regard as the poverty line. Overall, we achieve higher productivity growth, better profitability and better distribution policies with the Norwegian and Nordic models than with the US model.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e668	No, I am not at all sorry for the positive developments in the labour market. What I'm sorry about is if the government is not able to keep up with the positive development, put in the necessary measures and not least see what it's caused. I still see the Minister of Finance's strong opposition to looking at tax relief as an element of this. With regard to precisely this with tax relief, the Minister of Finance highlights the reductions in the bottom line, etc., but it is a fact that this government has given considerable tax relief to those with high incomes – without me standing here and criticising it. With regard to labour market developments now, we received an SSB survey a few days ago saying that employment growth is increasing with unreduced strength. But what is interesting is that this increase does not come from the unemployment line – it is stable. Those who come to work are the ones who are already in the market. Employment growth is therefore not due to the fact that so many more enter the labour market, but to the fact that fewer leave the labour market in high economic conditions. The reason is so obvious, and it is pointed out by Knut Røed at the Frischsenteret in an article that comes in the next edition of the Economic Forum, where he points out that people are longer in work, the pensioners are working longer. And what's the reason for that? Is it their desire to take responsibility for the country of origin in an upturn? Nope. This is because they see that it is a market where they can work and make money. When we see this reflection out in the labour market, it must be said that, for example, we are. tax incentives are introduced for this group. In short, it shows that restrictions on early retirement schemes would work, and not least providing pensioners with more flexible access. When the studies show that it is this part of the labour potential that saves us, some clocks should be ringing when it comes to tax relief. I find it alarming that the Minister of Finance and the Government let ideological views and distribution rhetoric prevail instead of pragmatic practical measures that can contribute to the most important thing, namely stabilising and continuing the boom in our country as far as possible towards soft landing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e679	Firstly, I note that more and more representatives from the Right believe that they have something to learn from our government in terms of distribution policy, and are talking about implementing the tax reform, which was one of the first things our government did, and which was there from the previous bourgeois government. What we did was we took two grips. One was that we significantly reduced the relief of income tax, and the other was that we continued to develop the property tax to make it more fairer. The sum of that is that those with high incomes, who are rich in Norway, contribute more than before above the tax bill, and that we have given tax relief at the bottom, as I was in the past. So I just have to complain to the representative Fleet: he has nothing to teach me about distribution policy. It would be a significant discrepancy if the previous government had continued. When, in addition, the Right will liquidate the property tax with a distribution policy justification, I can understand that some pensioners and others with ordinary income may be irritated if they are to pay a thousand or two bills in property taxes. But that proposal from the Right and the Advance Party, to wind up the wealth tax, would mean that the hundreds of the richest people in Norway get $7 million. kr i average tax light per. years each. It's a terrible distribution policy. So it's a little bit difficult to understand what the Fleet thinks about how to deal with tax changes, any tax relief, to get people to stand further in work, if that's one of the main reasons why unemployment goes down. It is now the case that new groups enter the labour market – it cannot be rejected. In the case of workers over 55 years of age, the situation is completely different. Of course, it may be because they are not pushed out in the first place. But it's very hard to see that there would be a lot to pick up tax changes to mobilize that group. Then there are many of those who have low job breaks, who have increased their job break. There may be a significant function at the bottom of tax changes and reliefs, and it has been implemented as an instrument by this government. We have a lot of measures to get the situation we have now to stabilize in the future. We lack labour in many areas – I fully agree with Mr Fletten on that. At the same time, we see that both businesses and the public sector have a completely different handling of a more international labour market than they had just a few years ago. It is that access to labour from other EEA countries that has greatly ensured that we have not reached the capacity limit a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e692	The representative Fleet has drawn up two themes in its interpellation. Firstly, the labour market policy and how it works in our society, and secondly, the tax policy and its consequences. In recent years, we have experienced strong increases in labour immigration in our country. Foreign workers make an important effort to solve societal challenges. Labour immigration expands the capacity of the economy. It's positive. But it also brings some challenges. The most important is the risk of social dumping. It is not acceptable to increase labour immigration to lead to wage dumping and deviations from the labour-environment laws and other destinations in the world of work. Foreign workers wishing to provide their labour in Norway must be given the same pay and working conditions as their Norwegian counterparts. Such a policy is about being real and being solidarity. It is not about efficiency and market fitment. The central and state councillors of the municipalities of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen signed a few days ago a cooperation agreement to ensure good cooperation between the labour market sector and the education sector. Many of the 700,000 people in working life who are out of work are unfortunately lacking the necessary skills. They fall outside of current schemes and do not receive the necessary training. The agreement to which I referred shall strengthen cooperation between the State of Labour and Welfare and the State of Education in County and Municipalities in order to achieve labour market and education policy objectives. The Agreement shall enter into force immediately and shall expire in 2009. In the Labour Party and in the other government parties, we are proud that the unemployment rate is reduced from 3.7 pst. in August 2005 to 2 pst. in April of this year. This shows that our policy is working. Unemployment is ineffective. When she gets bitten, we don't use the most important resource in our country, the labour force, in a good enough way. In the first year of the sitting government, employment rose by 81 000 people, while unemployment fell by 37 000. The strongest case of unemployment was among people under 24 years of age. It is also very gratifying that by the end of 2006, the lowest unemployment rate among immigrants was recorded in eight years. Occupational activity in the 55–74 age group also increased markedly. This is a very happy development, and we need to go all the way back to the 1970s to find the corresponding high level of professional activity in this age group. The unemployment rate remains at a low level in 2007, and the employment rate continues to increase. It's very positive. Unfortunately, the number of underemployment sets is still high – 116 000 in the first quarter of this year. This is almost one-fifth of all part-time additions, and here there's a huge unsolved potential. There is a great deal of overweight for women in this group – in fact 90 000 out of 116 000 are women. The government will propose changes to the Work Environment Act to give workers over 62 years of age the right to reduced working hours. It shall be possible to combine work with retirement without shortening the pension. This will help to increase the number of seniors in the world of work than they would otherwise have done, but this has led to a real opportunity for the seniors to reduce their working hours. Therefore, the Work Environment Act will be amended to achieve the intended effect. The government will also now introduce a more flexible system so that foreign professionals and specialists will be able to work faster in our country. On the basis of what has been said here, we can conclude that there is no basis for the generally pessimistic assessment of the labour market that the representative Fleet has just expressed. A lot of positive work is done to increase the workforce, without I underestimating the work ahead of us. When it comes to the fiscal views that the Labour Party will put forward, I refer you to the speech that Mrs Aasen Agdestein will have later in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e718	Then we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e721	First, I would like to say that I think it is positive that the representative fleet addresses this important issue here today. The problem we're drawing is divided into two. One is to provide tax relief and use fiscal policies to increase labour supply, and the other is to provide tax incentives to increase social savings — which in turn will reduce demand. In order to take the first step — the increase in the supply of work. There are quite clear and clear calculations, among other things. from the SSB, which shows that if one reduces the tax burden, especially for those with lower incomes, it increases the labour supply. The Progress Party is fully in line with the Minister of Finance, who has obviously also received impulses from the SSB, and it is clear that the Minister of Finance at least trusts some of the calculations presented by the SSB. That's why it's important to get a significant tax credit for these groups. The reason why it is easier to increase the number of jobs in these groups is that there are a lot of people who think little, who do not benefit from their entire working capacity. By getting lower taxes, it will be more profitable to work more. The other group that we can do something with, and that the representative Sandal was in, is retired between 67 and 70 years old. They have to pay a tax rate of up to 88 pst today. when considering the draw of the pension of 40 pst. For example, a pensioner who has NOK 275 000 in retirement and who charges over 2 G, has to pay 85 pst. the tax on each krone of attached teeth over 2 G. It goes without saying that such a tax pressure does not pay and is not so interesting for the individual to work more than that. That means that a pensioner of 67 years, who has over 2 G and has $200 an hour, will be left with $30 after the tax and the deduction of the pension have been subtracted. 30 kroner isn't much, and I think it's a little strange that the parties that are so occupied with so-called social dumping are not concerned with removing this rule. We can't accept this tax evasion of pensioners. The next thing that's been picked up is that many disabled people, including the disabled, can get into the workplace openly. Then it's important to facilitate it even when it's taxing, and that one gives tax incentives for it. By reducing the tax on lower revenues, a good deal will come. The next thing is that when you're in a situation where you're moving into a strong economic climate, it's important that you stimulate saving. It is clear that what the Minister of Finance and the Government did when they removed the IPA scheme was going completely wrong. When the pressure in the economy increases, it is important that an incentive to increase savings and not remove incentives for such savings. Therefore, it is our conclusion that the Minister of Finance does not use fiscal policy properly. On the other hand, the Minister of Finance is going wrong in several areas. In addition, of course, when an increase in taxes is made, injection into the public sector will also increase the pressure. Of course, it is because we privately use a much larger proportion of our disposable income to ask for goods and services abroad, while the public mainly addresses their demand for goods and services domestically. This means that when an increase in taxes by one dollar and transfers the money to the public sector, it in itself increases the pressure on the economy and demands more hours worked than if these money had remained in the private sector. So the Progress Party is not in agreement with the developments and policies that are being pursued in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e736	For the sake of order, let me just remind the Minister of Finance that in the 2006 budget she presented unchanged tax rates within the peak tax level in relation to the former government – i.e. for those who have the most of them. The aggravation that occurred was a change in the peak tax entry point, which affected income groups between 390000 and 400000 kroner. As far as this debate is concerned, I must say that I am a little surprised by a finance minister who, on an ideological basis, rejects as many of the instruments that can be used in fiscal policy to influence a somewhat overheated economy, and therefore, as a consequence, leaves so much of the governance of monetary policy. To put it another way: the danger of a special interest rate trend is present when, in financial policy, instruments such as fiscal policies and more active labour market policies are refused to be used to increase supply and, not least, to withdraw purchasing power through active savings measures, are often tax-stimulated. Governments reject tax-stimulated savings schemes, for example: on the basis that experience shows that it is largely a transfer from one account to another. We don't have any investigation to show it. The measures to which we refer are tax-stimulated schemes aimed at securing future pensions. People behave differently from other savings schemes. One of the reasons is, among other things: that this is binding over a long time. So the Council of State says that stimulating pension savings has a bad distributive effect. It must be to close your eyes completely to reality. Of course, those who are left at least in relation to their own income when they are retired have the greatest incentive to save extra. It was just supposed to be missing. Now we have a settlement that involves a certain reintroduction, but based on the government’s thinking, Norway would have been the only EEA country that did not have such private tax-stimulated savings schemes in the pension area. The Council of State said that she does not have any points of view to say that there is too little saving in Norway. It is an eye-catching opinion of a Norwegian Finance Minister. You have to go far back in history to find that, I'm tempted to say hesitate, but I have to limit myself to saying such actual errors. It has been pointed out several times that Norway has a strangely low level of private savings. I find it alarming that the Council of State now determines that she is very pleased with it. I believe, on the other hand, that using active savings measures now would have been sensible and healthy for the economy, both in the short term and in terms of the withdrawal effect, because there are withdrawal possibilities where people can afford to put something aside and not use. But I record that the Minister of Finance from SV is very pleased that people build cabins and buy expensive boats in the millions of classes, while you don't save. I think it would have been more sensible to stimulate a group that can afford to save more for its future pension. So just cards to the issue of tax incentives. There are numerous international reports and scientific work that clearly demonstrate – without the need to innovate an American social model – that tax incentives have an impact on labour supply, both tax incentives for the lowest incomes and for the highest incomes, in different ways, yes, but both are important to implement today. It can be taken out more overtime, and we can get more overtime from part time to full time. But then it is important that tax incentives are set up in such a way that the marginal tax on lower incomes does not increase as well. It won't stimulate someone who goes to half-day work to go to full-time work if you get a higher rate of progress. The government I belonged to, the Bondevik II government, carried out the most extensive stimulus of the post-war period in this field. We increased the bottoms more than previous governments have done in four years. The notified measures taken by this government do not work in this area, in combination with the absence of effective measures to stimulate the supply of work. A number of plans, intentions, yes, have been presented, but no action has been taken to increase the supply of work. It leaves very much of the tightening of the economy to interest rate policy, with the negative consequences it can have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e751	The President finds it unparliamentary to refer to the Minister of Finance’s posts as ‘doubt’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e754	We have a hot labour market. The last thing we heard was the news today, where the lack of nurses was described. A few days ago, there was a lack of pre-school teachers in several municipalities, which, of course, leads to an increased demand for more pay from an attractive employer. The issue that the fleet representative is addressing today is whether fiscal policy can help to increase the supply of work. I think the Minister of Finance should also agree that there is a clear answer to that. Of course, there is a link between how the tax system is designed and how the labour supply is. I guess there's a few relationships in the economy that are more studied than that. Even the current government has recognised the principle that there are limits to the level of marginal tax – even on high incomes – simply because the potential adverse effects of reduced labour supply exceed the political gains that could be reaped from taxing capacity. I believe that this must have been a cause for concern when the Minister of Finance presented his State budget in the autumn of 2005, proposing – as she herself said – that those with the highest income also received the most tax relief. To respond to the inter-pellant challenge of the Christian People's Party, our answer is yes; we think it is absolutely possible to change the composition of taxes and taxes so that it helps to secure employment and stimulate even more strongly into work. We want to strengthen the use of environmental taxes and compensate them by reducing taxes and taxes on labour and saving. Let me mention as an example: the reduction of the inheritance tax on generational change in family-owned enterprises, the reduction and, in the long term, the removal of property taxes on industrial wealth or so-called working capital and the increased possibilities for private pension saving are the most relevant reform needs, from our point of view. We've noticed that at least some of the parts that are in position meant something of the same when they were in opposition. At the same time, the level of taxation may not be combined, which is now our biggest challenge in stimulating more people to work. As in the interpellant in the interpellant text, the main challenge is to make better use of the human resources that are not used well enough in society today. There are many working-age people who fall outside the ordinary labour market, and I would say that the government still has a significant potential for improvement in preventing exclusion from the labour market and helping people from social security and back to work. Therefore, we are not impressed when the labour market companies can report that those who need the most assistance to get back to work experience that the authorities actually require them to have a run where they will have less time to get back to normal work, because the pressure on the economy in those public establishments is so hard. Another important challenge in the years to come will be the design of the pension system, in particular how to adapt the AFP scheme to the objectives of the pension reform. It shall be possible to leave at the age of 62 in a dignified manner — with early retirement. But it can't be that it doesn't have any role whatsoever in future retirement if a person participates in the labour market or not after the age of 62. Exactly that is probably one of the areas where government responsibility has affected e.g. Party of the Minister of Finance. A stronger emphasis on taxes and charges on environmentally harmful and harmful goods and services and compensation for them through reduced taxes and taxes elsewhere is a proper strategy in the future. Now this cannot be the subject of an interpellation debate in detail, so we will of course follow this up in the alternative budgets to be submitted in due course – starting this autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e772	There is reason to thank the interpellant for giving us the possibility of some heating rounds before the revision is presented and it is just before the great battles of economic policy this spring. We'll get back to that. I want to start by saying that there is a working time in the country. It's good times. There's reason to rejoice that there's good times. I think the Minister of Finance should be right about that. At the same time, there is so much work in the country that there is a shortage of labour in many places. This leads to something that may not seem very good, but which may be a little scary, namely that some companies that look ahead, who look in the glass ball and wonder what to do now, choose to grow out and not at home for fear of the work situation in the years to come. They choose to move out, and they may choose not to set up new businesses in Norway for fear that there will be no access to necessary labour. It's kind of dangerous in the long term. This debate has so far been about whether we should be gentle, or whether we should be the opposite in times when things are going well. I want to say that most of us, almost all of us – I had almost said all minus one – should rejoice over good times. But one is paid to be concerned and has it as a mission in Norwegian society, and that's the Minister of Finance. A finance minister should always say that after sun rains – when everyone enjoys the sun. A finance minister should always say that after summer comes harvest – when everyone enjoys the summer and thinks it will last forever. It is the duty of the Minister of Finance. I don't think the finance minister so far in this interpellation debate has done that part of his job. Because it's in good times that we have to take into account that things are going to be different. That is what the Minister of Finance's thinking about economic policy, budgetary policy arrangements and fiscal policy must be about. I have to say that I am surprised – in order to express myself in parliamentary language and not do as the representative Foss and go over the line – that the Minister of Finance does not put any more words on the difficult balances that I now know must be made both in the head of the Minister of Finance and in the Ministry of Finance, on how to establish economic policy and financial policy in view of the fact that there will be tougher times and there is a danger of giving too much gas in this situation. When the Minister of Finance here says that there is no reason to worry about a shortage of savings, I have to say that I also think it is alarming. It is very important that a finance minister says that it is important to set aside in good times, because times are getting worse. It's a finance minister's job, and I think the finance minister has to contribute to it. It's unusually important what kind of signals a finance minister sends. So to the eternal debate I think we still have in Stortinget, and it's history of the previous government. I have been on many government shifts in this room up through the years, but I have never experienced a situation where the sitting government almost said two years into its reign still spends most of the time talking about the previous government. I would just like to talk about the future and not about the past – not because I have something to be ashamed of when it comes to the past, but I would like to know that the story is written correctly. Therefore, I would like to briefly remind you that the previous government took over a situation in 2001, as the governor of the central bank called Norwegian economy in default – interest rates rose, unemployment increased. It was a tough job to straighten out the Norwegian economy. When the sitting government took over, we had record low interest rates and strongly falling unemployment. There's a reality no one can jump from. So you could say, was it just the previous government that, through tax policy and other things, contributed to this? No, of course not. It was good times. We got a lot from the outside – a fantastic price of raw materials, cheap imports and all of this – but there is no doubt that economic policy could have ruined the good times, at least reducing the impact of the good times into the Norwegian economy. It was just the good times we got free from the outside, combined with a comprehensive economic policy, where tax laws were also an important part, which enabled us to create the good times for which the finance minister and the government parties now take part. Let me end by saying that the government has an advantage. We are insured against really red-green bananas by maintaining the 2004 tax base. That's why things can't go so wrong. If combined with the fact that the tax reform is also firm – which I have reason to believe – the government has a unique possibility of a tax shift, rather than a bottom-up tax and more taxes on environmentally harmful behaviour.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e787	The expression ‘red-green banana’ is probably a bit on the edge of what is acceptable language use from this speaker’s chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e790	Now it is also obvious that the President has been waiting for – the fiscal viewpoint of the Workers' Party on the interpellation of the Representative for the Fleet, where he describes the boom we are in the middle of, and how it affects the demand for labour and the pressure it can bring on wages, interest and currency. This macroeconomic description draws on the Government’s fiscal policy as a factor which, it is said, hampers access to labour and the saving of the population. The reasoning goes into the series of claims made by the former government parties Right, Left and Christian People's Party that it is going so well in the Norwegian economy now because the previous government led a so-called dynamic tax policy. The representative Sponheim moderated this view a little in the previous post, which I noted with interest. Otherwise, the right-wing representatives often use this speaker to point out the context. The reasoning is wrong in my opinion. The fact that things are going so well with the Norwegian economy is due to a combination of responsible oil money use and the fact that the world is in a high economic climate that fits Norwegian economy well. The oil price is high, the investments on the base and in oil-related industries are very good, our export companies experience record high demand, while the imports that we demand do not increase in price – rather on the contrary. A difference of DKr 13 billion between the Bondevik regime and today's government cannot explain the solid economic upturn we've had in recent years. If it was such that lower taxes themselves led to such an extra strong economic growth, which in turn resulted in increased tax access, enough for the State not to have lost revenue, yes, then the following conditions had to be in place: either the tax and tax system had to have been designed in such an inefficient way for society that producing the service or the goods had not been reflected in the socio-economic costs, or it had to have been such that businesses and persons were very sensitive to small changes in the tax system, for example. by a small reduction in the tax rates on wages and salaries, the labour supply increased relatively much. There is very little evidence to suggest that some of this is the case in Norway today. The Norwegian tax system has a broad tax base and relatively low tax rates, which in itself limits the loss of efficiency of the tax system. In particular, the 1992 tax reform has improved this. In addition, experience shows that economic operators are not very sensitive to even general changes in the tax rate. The most sensitive groups are people with lower incomes. That is why this government has given tax relief to those who earn less than NOK 400,000, while we have given tax incentives to groups that are less sensitive to the tax level in terms of providing labour, i.e. those who earn more than NOK 400,000. It takes a very long time to find as low unemployment in Norway as it is today. Never have so many been in work as now. Unemployment has fallen since the red-green government offices, and this despite the fact that we have invested at a tax level from 2004, which, after all, cannot be too bad, even for the Right-People, all the time they themselves made the tax package for 2004. I have a great sense of the political objective of the fleet's representative in his interpellation, namely increased access to labour, but I have much more faith in other instruments than giving increased tax relief to those who are less sensitive to tax incentives, namely the high-wage. A new pension reform, action to combat sick leave, active and targeted measures through the NAV system and efforts at education and retraining, to mention something, will, in my view, have a greater impact on the provision of work. The representative Fleet pointed out that we were too ideological and that they themselves stood for pragmatism. I mean, the picture's the other way around.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e807	I want to talk about two concepts that are widely used in this debate and other debates. The first is the property tax. Governments are talking about this money as wealth that people have stolen from someone, but it's actually the savings for people. It's money that's taxed a number of times. The only thing these people who have wealth have done wrong is that they haven't used them up. If they had used them up, they would not have received a tax charge. But that's the money the State Council believes people have to pay in. Then, the Council of State, which saw in many debates, says that wealth is unevenly distributed among the population. Yes, of course, they are unevenly distributed among the population. What else would they be? This is money that people have invested and worked and built up either through generations or as individuals. Of course, they are unevenly distributed among the population. We must not get a society where wealth is equally distributed among the population. So it's term no. 2: labour immigration. It goes to Reidar Sandal's representative. It's interesting when he says, "We also have work immigration." It's a stigmatizing concept in itself, because it says something about the 18,000 people who come to Norway on normal, regular immigration. What are they going to do, then? Aren't they supposed to be working? Are they supposed to live on social security? These are people that we get every year – 18 000. If we had talked about highly skilled workers, I would have understood that. But those who come here on labour immigration are not primarily the people who come here. There are people doing work, like building houses, etc. These types of people come to Norway from Poland and Lithuania and elsewhere in Eastern Europe. Why is it absolutely impossible to get the 18,000 who come from the other countries around the world to take these kinds of jobs? Or what are the 18,000 going to do that comes here every year? That's the question to the Council of State. The goal must be to get these 18,000 into the jobs that are now available. But you can't do that. These people are either going to social security, or they're not going into the regular work force. This must be the goal of this government and of all future governments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e823	When Svein Fleet travels an interpellation where he talks about scarcity of people to do all the jobs that people in this country actually want to do, he challenges the Minister of Finance in relation to not using tax credits as an instrument. Then he's talking about tax relief for saving, and he's talking about tax relief to get more people to work. Then I believe very simply that Svein Fleet has the wrong focus. It's not like there's tax relief that's the starting point and the most important tool to make sure more people get to work here in the country. We have fairly high taxes here in the country, quite high. It's because we spend a lot of money on well-being, which we make sure to be publicly funded. We spend a lot of money on education, which is to be publicly funded. We spend money on an active labour market policy, which is publicly funded. But in addition to that, we have large transfers of money for well-being and for social security – for child welfare and for other things that are important to people. If we had subtracted this, we wouldn't have had that very high tax level here in the country. But we have it with us, and that's to fund good welfare schemes for people. We believe that this is important, and we believe that some of those things – and I will come back to it – are much more effective to get people to work than to bet unilaterally on tax laws, which it is easy to get the impression that Svein Fleet thinks is the important thing. So Lars Sponheim says we're busy with the past. But with all due respect to reporting, it is the interpellant who is most concerned with the past, because the opposition in the Great Britain has reduced itself to being primarily concerned with the fact that the previous government is the one who led a policy that made sure that we are where we are today: there is nothing the red-green government has done that has made sure that we are now in a situation of historically low unemployment and historically high employment. All of this is due to the policies of the previous government. It's with all due respect not to report correctly. We've been hacking more humbly. It's not like the business cycle is just run from Kristin Halvorsen's office in the government quarter. It's not like she's sitting with the Prime Minister and hummingbirds and saying that now world economics are going to go like that. We see that a good part of the reason why we're there today is that the world economy is going very well. It's primarily about one question: how do we deal with the boom we're in now? How do we make it last as long as possible? Then I find it interesting when Knut Røed says – and it is supported by representatives of the Statistical Central Bureau as well – that if we are now able to maintain high activity in the Norwegian economy, we can manage a) to employ more of the older workers and make them more attractive in Norway, and b) to attract more people into the labour market, into employment, which has been kept out for a long time. What we know is that every time there's a dumping in the business cycle, and there's a high unemployment rate, there's a lot of people who get put out of work permanently, because there's young people who never came in. Those people are what we now have the opportunity to involve in the labour market, and that will be essential for the Norwegian economy in the years to come. If we were to be concerned about what is important in order to have high employment in Norway, it is to make sure that several of the people who work part-time now enter full-time jobs around the municipality of Norway. It's actually really important. We are now contributing to this by improving the finances of municipalities around it. We make sure that people go from part-time to full-time. In relation to labour immigration, there is one thing that is extremely important, and I notice that the right-hand side always jumps over, and that is that everyone who works in Norway should have Norwegian pay and working conditions. We've been demanding that all along. Why is that important? There's two reasons why that's important. One part is that it makes Norway a more attractive country to travel to. This is one of the reasons Norway has the largest share of immigrants from the new EU countries per capita. They do not go to Sweden, they go to Norway instead, because here they get proper pay and working conditions. The second part is that it ensures that all people who are now out of work and who can be recruited to the same positions to which we also recruit Poles receive real wages, rather than poor wages, which is what they would get if Polish workers worked at significantly lower wages than we have been in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e840	It is quite fascinating to hear a socialist depreciating the importance of the national economy for the economic development of the country. When the representative Heikki Holmås is going to explain why Norway is doing well, he refers to the development of the world economy. But if it were just the world economy that affected the development of the Norwegian economy on the labour market and economic growth, yes, it would have been similar in almost all countries. However, what we have seen is that there has been a much more positive development in Norway than that in Norway, for example. have been in Germany and France. Why has there been a more positive development in the Norwegian economy than in the German and French economies? Well, because we have a much more liberalized economy in Norway than what we have in Germany and France. It can be seen that even German social democrats are now with the Christian-democratic government trying to liberalize the economy, trying to lower taxes, both to stimulate economic growth and to stimulate people to work more. Similarly, in France, even Norwegian social democrats must be able to see that some of the main French problem is having too much static economy, too much planned economy and too little market economy. There is also a need for a more liberalised labour market and not least for measures that stimulate people to work more. But I find that there is a little different vision here. We heard that throughout the last election, when Stoltenberg and Halvorsen continued with the old record that the bourgeois government gave the most to those who had the most from before, and that it went out on the community. We, who have a more dynamic view of economic development, see that tax cuts have helped to stimulate economic development, so that, through lower taxation, more money has been contributed to the community. In fact, I agree with the Minister of Finance on one point, and that is that, in terms of stimulating work, it is more important to lower taxes on lower and middle incomes. But then it's a great paradox that the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party are the parties that have lowered the taxes to those who serve the most, the most, of all. No one has received as much tax relief as the high income groups received from SV and the Workers' Party after the government change. In fact, someone who makes $1 million. kr or 2 mill. kr – as an employee – much less in tax with Kristin Halvorsen as Minister of Finance than with Per-Kristian Foss as Minister of Finance. I agree with you, Mr President. The fleet in that we should not regret it, but one must end with the hollow rhetoric when one sees that the fact is completely different. Let me also stress that when it comes to saving, Norway is a different country. It's true that we have a lot of public savings, but we have a very limited private savings. If you look at other European countries, they have little government savings. In fact, most countries have debts, but there is considerable private savings. So what makes Norway a different country is that we have too little private savings, and then you should look at different measures, including tax reductions, to make people save more. Finally, I do not know how much time the Minister of Finance has in his closing post, but if she has time, I would like her to answer two questions. One is related to removing the extra tax on pensioners between 67 and 70 years of age. When will the government remove the penalty for the 67- to 70-year-olds? Now you agree that the goal is to get rid of it. When do you want to take it away? If you agree that it will stimulate older workers to work more by removing that tax, when will you do it? And the second: when the Minister of Finance says in his statement that reduced taxes on lower and medium incomes mobilise more labour input, does that mean that the Government will pursue a policy where the tax level of lower and medium incomes is gradually reduced so that we can stimulate more of the work capacity that we actually need?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e851	Just a few brief comments on some of the things that have been up here. The chairman of the committee, Reidar Sandal, says that I am pessimistic in an optimistic time. No, I'm just reflecting the pessimism of business, not on today's bottom line, but on the future, the one that the government parties and neither the finance minister seem to care about. Both the representative Sandal, the representative Aasen Agdestein, the finance minister and the representative Holmås of the Socialist Left Party are dancing in the cyclical sunshine without particular regard for the future, and at least one will not accept taxes as any incentive. In addition, I must be allowed to point out to the representative Holmås that I have the wrong focus in my post. His reason is that I'm not talking about all the good things that we're going to distribute money to, I'm not talking about municipal transfers, I'm not talking about the range of good actions that you spend on the state budget. No, that's right. I used a lot of my post to talk about how we're going to create the values that we're going to use for this. Now the Minister of Finance called for my actions for the older workers or for those who are going to stand longer in the workplace – she did not really understand what I meant. The faction leader, Jan Tore Sanner, was a little clearer about this. He explained that removing the cut in pensions for them between 67 and 70 years is important. There are measures that cost 160 million. kr of the year – it's in the Right Alternative Budget for 2007, I recommend it, that's good reading. In addition, there are restrictions on pension schemes in the AFP schemes. When the representative Holmås talks about the latest studies from the SSB show that we can get more people to work longer, he says nothing about what measures we are going to take. Finally, let me say the following in connection with this, which I think has been an interesting debate: in my main post I talked about the great work of a Nobel Prize winner, actually two great works, which showed that tax relief has a meaning. I hope that the finance minister and the government parties do not reject this just because it comes from the United States.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e862	I have noticed that the Right Leader, Erna Solberg, criticizes everyone else for running a dirty election campaign and for not being honest in the political debate. I think the right dashes on the first sample. The claims made by the representative Jan Tore Sanner do not give a fair presentation of this government's tax policy in relation to the fiscal policy of the previous government. When the tax reform was to be implemented, we took over a budget from the previous government with almost twice the tax burden on the highest revenue actually achieved. In addition, we continued the wealth tax and made it fairer. The previous government would give those who had the most, both in bag and bag. We took back the bag and reduced the bag to half. That's the truth about this, so if the Right wants to have a fair debate, I suggest we start talking about it. So I just want to make aware of what the interpellant has really asked me to answer. I think the representative Lars Sponheim might have expected this to be some kind of conversational therapy for a finance minister in difficult times. That's not what I've been asked about by the interpellant. The starting point is that tax relief is the answer to all the challenges we face. It's the government and I disagree. The fact that we are also facing challenging times in the Norwegian economy is quite correct. The most important question we can ask is, how does the limit actually go to how much people we can manage to mobilize to do all the jobs we would like to have done? That's what's going to determine when it's going to boil over. And then we don't think that tax relief is the most appropriate. It may have an impact on the low-income groups, but the most appropriate thing is to work to get those groups that are currently outside, into the labour market, and to keep those who are otherwise outcast for as long as possible. We're in the age group between 67 and 70. It's a budgetary question when we get back to that matter. But I think the commitment now shown by the former government partners to this particular group is interesting, when you had so many opportunities to implement what they are now calling for from the current government. So those priorities haven't met before. So, of course, I'm not going to pretend to say that some representatives are talking hesitate, but I think it's a special approach to the discussion about saving to think that cabin purchases are not savings, but consumption. What we see is that when it comes to saving in financial instruments and in real instruments, it is the real investment in Norway that is the largest – the ones that have to do with houses and cabins. That's the way most people in Norway save, that's through their house, or maybe through a cabin.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e875	The President is pleased that the Council of State did not dare to use the word ‘doubt’. Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e895	I was a little intrigued by the Minister of Finance finishing his post in the previous interview, where she talked about conversational therapy, so I don't know if we can continue in this interview with any of the same. I'm imagining that there might be a need for a little conversation within the government when it comes to this very topic at least. The Government and the Minister of Finance promote a high political profile in the use of fiscal policies to stimulate environmentally friendly behaviour and the development of environmentally friendly technologies. It makes sense to use fiscal policy as a means of influencing consumer choices, so that they take account of social costs, for example: in the case of environmental emissions, when purchasing goods and services with different environmental characteristics. As a result, we have a broad political agreement on these principles. We've got a sensible system of environmental taxes with criteria on how to price environmental properties into the fees. I – and certainly most of my co-representatives in this Chamber – want the Minister of Finance to be happy with the further development of this work, and look forward to our high ambitions in terms of domestic measures to reduce environmental emissions, too. But many of the same basic arguments we use to differentiate taxes according to environmental characteristics are also valid in order to be more able to differentiate the tax on food according to health characteristics. There is an increased doubt that there is a link between nutrition and health. Several years ago, for example, it was then called the Food Council of the State that if the population on average increased the consumption of fruit and vegetables by 65 p.p., the number of cancer cases in the next 15 years would decrease by 20 000. Last year, the Social and Health Directorate reported that Norway, like other Western countries, would be hit by a obesity epidemic — a disease. According to the Social and Health Directorate, there would then be a link between social criteria such as income and education and the likelihood of being hit by this epidemic – an aspect that I am convinced is that the party of the Minister of Finance seems to be interesting. I assume that the Minister of Finance in his reply will refer to the Government's relatively fresh national diet plan with 73 concrete measures to be implemented in the period 2007-2011 – not a bad word about it, although in the name of soberness we should say that it presents enough of many activities that have been and will be going on completely independently of such a plan. But the fact that such a plan has been developed at all shows that at least we agree on the starting point: nutrition and diet are essential factors for good public health, and diet is not a purely private matter. Of course, each one decides on his own diet, but it is both ethical and economical for the public to encourage good dietary habits. It is probably no big secret that there may be tensions within the Government about how much more ambitions are to use the tax system more strongly to stimulate sensible dietary habits. Therefore, the formulations in the diet plan at this point have also become quite wretched, to say the least. The Government shall ‘examine the possibilities for the use of economic instruments to promote a healthy diet’. Then you can ask what effect the investigation work in the departments has on the health of the employees there. I'm not going to say that, but this objective is not exactly out of high ambitions in terms of public health in a wider perspective. That is why I would like to encourage the Minister of Finance to increase the level of ambition. She has good reasons to do so. Firstly, there is clear scientific advice from national nutrition councils that it would actually have a positive impact on public health if, for example: removed the VAT on fruit and vegetables, or reduced it to a low rate and covered the proceeds – because I know that the Minister of Finance is busy – by increasing the VAT rate on some other high-calorie foods or beverages, adjusting other excise duties, if necessary. In today's Daily we can all read about the "sugar shock" to which our children and young people are now exposed. This is also confirmed by the Minister of Finance's colleague in the Ministry of Health and Welfare, who, in reply to questions from the Christian People's Party, refers to studies that say that both a reduction in the price of fruit and vegetables and an increase in the price of sugar-rich foods and beverages will clearly affect the demand for these products. If this happens, it will have a positive impact on public health, reduce public treatment costs in the long term and also help reduce social inequalities in the population. I will not be surprised if the Minister of Finance in his department has encountered counter-conceptions of the type ‘more complex and administratively burdensome charging legislation’. Well, both the Ministry of Finance, other public tax authorities, traders and consumers are used to the fact that the VAT system has several rates – 0, 8, 14 and 25 pst. Differentiation between certain foods within such a system will certainly require some adjustments, but it may not be possible. There are good opportunities for the Minister of Finance to quote in his reply to me the following: ‘The Ministry of Finance has set up a sample to assess current excise duties. This sample shall have a broad approach to the question of best design of excise duties. In this context, health and diet related excise duties will also be discussed. The Committee shall deliver its report by 23 June 2007. The Ministry of Finance will then decide on the follow-up to the report.’.» So if I have already given an answer like what the Minister of Finance might come along with, I will instead challenge the Minister of Finance on two questions. Firstly, if the tax system can actually contribute positively to the goals of the Government’s own diet plan, will the Minister of Finance, in principle, open up the possibility that economic instruments could be used more strongly than is the case today — taking a fundamental position? Secondly, will the Minister of Finance ensure that there are not only excise duties but also differentiations within the VAT system that will be assessed by that working group and then followed up politically by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e929	There's nothing that pleases me more than that we can last an hour in Stortinget today with fruit and green. Everyone is recommended – and the bikini sun is approaching. I'm very pleased with the commitment that the representative Syversen shows on this issue. Of course, that's because we know how much diet means. We know how vital it is, especially for children and young people, and especially that you get healthy diet habits early. It follows you all your life. And the action plan, which Syversen was also in, presented a plan for it earlier this year. We know much more than before about the relationship between nutrition and health, and we know much more than before about the relationship between social differences and nutrition and health. We also know that there are very clear differences in life expectancy, diet, trim, etc. which is linked to high income and good living conditions on the one hand, and on the other hand – that those who have poor advice, often have poor diets, are less moving and living shorter. We see that, put on the verge, in Oslo, that the age of life, if we compare west and east, is more than ten years longer on the west edge. That's why it's a very big challenge when we talk about this, that we're just addressing those who have the biggest challenges in terms of changing their lifestyle. Many of those who listen most about what is healthy, and who spend a little extra kroner to buy it, are the ones who are already very concerned about this. So we have a lot more to say that the groups that make many more unhealthy choices today choose a little healthier than the ones that are already supersunned become even more supersunner. And I understand that's some of the starting points for the interpellant as well. We are from the Government's side concerned with contributing to a better diet, and we are going to do so with a wide range of instruments. It is true, as the representative Syversen pointed out, that a sample has been set up to look at the issue of excise duties. They will also look at how they affect health and diet. It's true that this group is coming up with its report in June this year, and we're going to look very carefully at the proposals that are coming. I wondered if I should invite the Seven to join in some of the discussions that we need in terms of instruments, and rather allow us to conclude at a little later, because I believe that the main focus of the Seven is really the tax and tax system as a tool to stimulate a healthier diet. And it can be the tax and tax system, but first and foremost, the tax and tax system is a way to invite people to a ‘currency’ so that they can be involved in financing welfare goods. Leave that discussion. Then the excise duty can have other reasons. Some of them are taxed because they cost the community something, and others are taxed because we want to influence people's behaviour. These include: the reasons for petrol taxes, alcohol taxes, tobacco taxes, etc. We're going through a review to get to a greener tax system, that is to say, to encourage people to consume more environmentally friendly. That is why we have introduced the charging system – the one-off charging system for cars, for example. A real petrol hatch is now considerably more expensive than before, while a fuel-rich car is cheaper. Therefore, of course, it is quite natural that there are proposals to use this more systematically, with health as a heading, to get a healthier diet. We have received several proposals both in terms of changing excise duties and in terms of changing VAT. It's also true, given what we know about this, that it's those who are initially the least concerned with healthy diets, which are most noticeable in terms of the price, so we have probably a lot to pick up if we can get at a lower price on the healthy foods. But there are also some counter-conceptions that it is important to include in this discussion. This does not necessarily apply to the excise duty system, it is easy to handle. The different rates of the VAT system are a challenge. First of all, we're going to have an eternal debate about what's healthy and what's less healthy. Fruit and vegetables are healthy, and according to that thinking, it turns out itself -- it's easy to figure out what's fruit and green. But it can be hard to justify why it's much healthier than fish, or why fish are much healthier than white meat. Where that discussion begins, and where it stops, it makes it a challenge to find out what kind of sound-level VAT system we should have if this were to be the main instruments. If this evolves far ahead, it will undermine the functioning of the entire VAT system and it is an important counter-representation. The VAT system is also more vulnerable to different administrative burdens than the excise duty system. The excise duty system is levied only at one stage, usually by the domestic producer and importer, while the VAT system affects all stages of the turnover system. So it's approx. 300000 traders affected by a stock change in the VAT system, and it will also lead to significant changes in administrative costs. It is not an insurmountable challenge, but it is a counter-representation to use the VAT system as the main instrument. Even if we were to focus on the excise duty system in this area, it could be about various demarcation problems. That's what I expect comes with full gravity when this sample comes with its suggestions. These are the counter-conceptions that are relative to the desire to make healthy food more affordable and unhealthy food more expensive. The representative Syversen is entitled to change today's VAT system internally, without sending any more money into the system, by changing the rates for different groups. And the representative Syversen is right that when we have a systematic lower rate of food, at 14 p.m., while the general rate of VAT is 25 p.m. We are also involved in sponsoring foods that are not healthy, at least not over-exploitation of them. This means that I do not reject this discussion initially, but I do not believe that one should ignore the fact that the VAT system is an administratively burdensome way of implementing health policy objectives. It is my duty to elaborate in the discussion. It's an element that we have to hold against each other, for a VAT system where we still have a discussion about which goods have which rates, where we have grey zones in terms of rates, provides very great opportunities for circumvention and can next uproot what is the income side of the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e952	When the finance minister said she looked forward to an hour's discussion in this room about fruit and vegetables, I thought it might be to let go of talking about the hot school meal that we know about before, but then it was that the bikini sun approached as the cause. Then I was not sure if I should be disappointed about it or not, but – I kept saying – we might have to wait until the season comes. As for what was the essence of the Minister of Finance's answer, I must say that I am fundamentally pleased with what was stated in the answer. As far as I can judge, with the reservations put in, which I am not quite surprised at, she will not in principle reject that, for example. the value added tax system may be used to promote a better diet. The Minister of Finance said, as far as I could hear, that these are counter-conceptions, but not insurmountable. Then I also understood that the Minister of Finance might have been more positive about looking at the excise duty system in this context. If she can confirm it, I'm going to be satisfied, because then we're at least in a political lease where it might be possible to further develop this debate and see if our tax policy can actually be used positively as regards diet. The finance minister himself pointed out that this has a balancing aspect, and she mentioned the city that we both represent, which may be the prime example of these challenges. In fact, I just want to confirm that the Council of State will not in principle reject the fact that the VAT system can also be used in this context, and that she is open to a greater degree to look at excise duties in general in order to promote a better diet.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e963	Let me start by saying that both the government and I are engaged in nutrition. I'm sorry that the discussion about school food in the previous election campaign almost became an example of how much we were in SV, and how little we were of quality in school, because here it was just supposed to be food and food. I am absolutely sure that in ten years' time that discussion has expired, that everyone will be concerned that healthy and good nutrition is an important starting point for learning, and that we have a full-day school where food is also a topic. But so far, the Soria Moria government statement says that we want to introduce a system of fruits and vegetables in school. This is part of this debate, although this debate is primarily a tax debate. I have many practical counter-conceptions about using the VAT system to sort out what is healthy and not healthy. I think we're going to have a lot of discussions, not just about fruit and greens, but also about other types of foods, and that it could be a rather unwieldy landscape. But let's not reject it on a principle basis, because we have a VAT system at several rates, as it is today. It's a challenge. It's not the most effective, it's not the easiest thing to handle either, and it's certainly so that there are opportunities for circumvention, but I don't want to deny that it can be a topic. Now it is the case that the setting of the sample is primarily about the excise duty system. It will not contain any form of analysis of differentiated VAT from a health and dietary point of view. In principle, I believe that there are good arguments to start by looking at how far we are going with the excise duty system. In that case, the problem may be in the first place how we can ensure that much of the most unhealthy – in an overall package where we stay on a wealth within the 2004 level – is more expensive, so that children do not go around like pure sugar bombs all their growth, or else are stimulated to more unhealthy diets. Then we'll have to take the discussion from there. I would like to invite the representative Syversen and the rest of the Stortinget to join that discussion. Then we can see if there are other ways than the tax and tax system to approximate that discussion, for example. by not prioritizing tax relief, but also prioritizing the upgrading of public schools so that fruit and vegetables, and after each school meal, become part of what we see as a basic offer to children and young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e972	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important topic. This is about public health, and we all agree that especially obesity is a growing problem. It's often the case that we flirt a little when we watch TV shows from the U.S. and elsewhere, with people who have serious problems with this. There are many more, fortunately – or unfortunately – in the United States and other countries that have this problem than it is here. But the problem is that if we don't do anything in the short, medium and long term in Norway, we're about to end up where you are, for example. in the United States, not too many years. We have to do a lot of grips to correct the course. The interpellant has himself been inside of some of the things that the government has notified. Among other things, this action plan presents a number of measures to promote health and prevent disease through a healthier diet. It may not be the most exciting thing that has been presented, according to the interpellant at least, but it is the first in its battle in Norway. It's a good start, at least I mean. What I think is at the bottom, which is perhaps the most important, is what the Council of State Halvorsen is about, that unfortunately, as in other areas, health correlates with inequality related to other factors. The question from the Syversen is whether we can use the charging policy to save public health in Norway. In the case of fees, it has two purposes. We have to get revenue to the state, we all agree on that. The question is the extent to which revenue is to be provided to the State. And then the trade economists talk about correcting what they call external effects, like we do. In the context of environmental policy, where one states that enterprises such as discharges dirty and dirty, has to pay for it through some sort of scheme to the state for various purposes. Then the question, which has been raised by many people, is whether we can also use the charging policy to prevent lifestyle diseases caused by unhealthy diets, and whether it is somehow an external cost. A little, interesting thought experiment in a country that has approximated free health: when I as a private person drink too much sugary shower, eat fat balls, squeeze chocolate, but almost not pay for my health care – is it so to understand that the things I have put in me cause some suffering that society has to pay? Yes, it is. Is that a type of external cost? Yeah, maybe. I don't know. The problem is, however, what the Council of State was also about – and I don't want to be a hitchhiker, and I'm not in principle opposed to using the charging system, either the VAT system or the excise system to fix these things – that it's demanding to find the costs, what it means for society that I'm, rather, half a gallon of shower and I somehow get hurt by it. Because that's what we should ideally do if we're going to create a charging system that covers the expenses society has because I put in unhealthy food and drink. One thing is that we can price that cost, but that's not what we're after. We're looking for me as a private person to end this, drink Farris and work with other things that are healthier, so I don't blame myself for these diseases. Then such a charge would have to be high, and then we're inside another border country, with border trade. I am sure that the representatives from the Progress Party will go up the whole discussion that I am going to Sweden and buy Pepsi and candy on the local buying markets on the border instead of buying it in Norway. That's it. That's it. That's it. I don't want to be perceived as any fundamental opponent of this – on the contrary. I believe that both the sample to go through excise duty – that is also the first of its kind in very many years – and this action plan is a good start. I understand that the representative Syversen is not excited that we are going to investigate how it should be done, but I would say that there is a reason why this discussion has come up again, after the bourgeois government has been four years in the system. They've probably met part of the same counter-representation, of the practical, economic type, that comes into play when you start to look into this amazingly complicated system, which generates huge revenues for the community. We're going to be careful with that. This is what has made Norway a good country to live in. That's what we're generating, especially from the VAT system. But I think this is worth looking at, because these things are so important, related to people who are bad in the country. It is often those with low income, low education, who also score very poorly on health. That's why it's especially important to take a close look at this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e989	First of all, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for addressing this matter, but if society as such is to use instruments through the tax and tax system, it must be to cut the charges that are currently going to be socially out of control. Today, Norway is a well-regulated society, and already has more than enough socially biased charges from a public health perspective. If we call it fees or excesses, it is ultimately the users who have to pay for it. It's kind of nice to see what the government promised in the Soria Moria statement not to increase the proportion, because they increased by 160 million. kr for medicines, the use of psychologists and the use of physiotherapists, and we know that the fixed medical system is increasing by 5 pst. 1 July. The Progress Party proposed a zero increase in equity, without significant support in this Chamber. If there was a willingness to take active action through cuts in the charging system, our proposal should well have been supported and not voted down. The pay, tax and tax systems in socialist societies have led to, and contribute to, social health inequalities, in particular in the case of minimum pensioners, chroniclers and social clients, who do not have the opportunity to give priority to health care, medicines and other health-intensive services. Or is it perhaps that the desire to get an extra income for the state is so great that the Storting believes that taxes on sickness are reasonable? Governing such a system as is proposed here by the interpellant, at the level of detail through taxes and taxes on various foods, is very bureaucratic. It's distorting, and it's complicated. Many so-called healthy goods are less healthy than so-called unhealthy goods. An important point is also that what's healthy for someone is unhealthy for others. Today, we find that some sugar-free products are subject to a charge in the same way as products that have sugar. If you were to put the charging system into use in this way, it would have to be to ensure that all communities have good, proper medicine, nutrition, treatment and reasonable access to healthy food, without ever-increasing red-green peculiarities. The Health and Welfare Committee is currently working with St.meld. No 20, where the use of the tax system is one part of many. If we talk about the percentage of psychologists, it can be mentioned that today there are 15,000 children living with one or two parents who are under mental health protection. Is it appropriate for public health to have a share in this type of service? Is it public health when we have a lot of people who are sick, having a specialty in physiotherapy? Is it appropriate for public health to have an additional cost for 7 000 people with diabetes, which is about 5 kroner the day because of a law that doesn't work? Now there's not a very large sum of $5 a day, but it's $1,800 in a year. The group living alone in Norway has a much worse physical and mental health than married and cohabiting. The lack of organisation and strengthening of family policies is one reason for this. This group is growing and will be a major public health problem. It is too stupid that a family has to pay NOK 300000 more to buy the same car as a lonely person has to do. We need information and awareness-raising work in diet, nutrition and physical feeding. We need it at an early level, and we need to get a lot better at using school in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1008	There seems to be some confusion within government parties about the season — it seems that the bikinis season has been going on for a long time, at least for a number of government councillors, where government council Djupedal has obviously been in a long-term disguised edition of both hot school meals and quality in school. Let me say that I share the intention of the interpellant. The right in government, together with the Left and the Christian People's Party, helped to strengthen public health policy significantly. The current Minister Dagfinn Høybråten can rightly be called a Minister of Public Health. Although the smoking ban on restaurants was controversial, there is no doubt that this measure had enormous significance in reducing the damage caused by smoking. Subsidised subscription schemes for fruit and vegetables at school were also strengthened, and many information campaigns were launched on tobacco, diet and physical activity. The main strategy is also firmly in the opposition, that better provision is needed to enable individuals to make good choices for their health without making significant use of regulation. In the previous government, we never used taxes and other instruments where it was considered to conflict with other aspects of charging policy. The sugar charge makes chocolate and confectionery, both sugar-containing and sugar-free, between 20 and 35 pst. more expensive than competing products such as cakes, biscuits, snacks and ice, and provides an annual additional cost of approximately DKK 400000 per year. employment. If you only expect production staff, the amount is as high as 750000 kroner. The tax is a significant disadvantage and pressure on the whole chocolate industry. It was good that the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen in his post problematized both in relation to fruit and green, in relation to fish and white meat and other things that from a political standpoint can easily be seen as obviously healthy or obviously harmful to health. Let me take a couple of the other points that might make it even harder: if Coke or certain kinds of juice have the most sugar, then it's often the juice that wins. It is not difficult to view cheese as a very high-fat product, and cheese would probably have been in the food category that should receive an increased fee. Nor can I stand on this platform without drawing out Kristiansand, where the best ice cream is produced, namely Hennig Olsen-is. There is the following problem: if the chocolate has a prominent place in the product, there must be a charge on the whole product. If there are only balls inside the product, you don't charge the whole product. If there is biscuits chocolate or biscuits in chocolate, this is a difference in substance compared to the design of today's chocolate charge. The chocolate levy has not prevented a gradual increase in the average weight of the population. It is therefore not likely that a continuation of the levy will solve societal health challenges. Luckily, the Excise Committee looks at this charge, and the sample will present its suspension at the end of June. I hope that this work will be evidence-based. The problem of obesity in Norway is complex. I fear that someone can be tempted to choose simple solutions in disfavor of the Norwegian industry, and not least in disfavor of the Norwegian chocolate industry. The right has had a long-standing commitment to this matter and has demonstrated the power of action by proposing, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the removal of the levy in the 2006 state budget. The fee is national, but the consequences are local. It is about competitive chocolate and confectionery production both at Nidar in Trondheim, at Freia in Oslo, at Memorial in Bergen, at Brynildsen Fabrikker in Fredrikstad and also at the Hval Chocolate Factory in Sandefjord. The time factor is important. Over the last four years, 400 production jobs have disappeared from Norwegian chocolate factories. Getting a quick clarification is important for how Nidar and all the other chocolate factories can plan ahead. I hope that the Council of State in its closing post can come to grips with when we can expect to see a chocolate tax disappearing – and how she wants to take the intention of interpellant seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1034	After all, it was nice to hear the killing comments from Peter Skovholt Gitmark about the suit of various government councils. I am also most pleased to see Hans Olav Syversen in bikini, but I promise not to post the picture on Facebook afterwards. I was going to ask, a little bit neatly, the interpellant about a very concrete thing. I think that's how if people got the simple question: are you for it to be cheap with healthy food and expensive with unhealthy food – then everyone would say it sounds like a really good idea. That is really what the interpellant has asked the finance minister whether she agrees that it is a good idea that it should not be that it is cheap with unhealthy food and expensive with healthy food, as it is often today. To that the Minister of Finance says, of course, that she thinks it's a really good idea, but she asks a question to Hans Olav Syversen, and I want to do that too: how does the representative of Syversen intend to do this? To get on in the debate from the fact that it would have been good that it had been cheap with healthy food, you have to say how we're actually going to do this. Then you would have come a good bit closer. Now we can say what we always do, yes, but we've pushed this over to a committee that's going to look at it, except for the VAT, and they're going to come back with suggestions. Then we'll probably get fun and speed in the debate. We're not going to get any fun and speed in the debate until people come up with concrete suggestions on how we can do this properly. This is something we're supposed to be worried about, because there's a clear class relationship between what kind of food people eat and the health effect. The health you have is related to the income you have. There is no doubt that if you have bad advice and go out and buy dinner, and wonder where to buy it, well, then one goes at McDonald’s or at Burger King, because there are so-called Happy Meals. Now such ‘Happy Meals’ are not very expensive, but there are many ‘Meals’ there that are quite much cheaper — which, however, are not healthy at all. This is illustrated in the film Super Size Me, which says something about how it goes with people if their diet is made up of burgers and they are encouraged to buy as much as possible, because it's so cheap. The Christian People's Party and the Seven have been brilliant in their budgets in making concrete proposals to do the unhealthy, such as: alcohol, tobacco and snuff, more expensive. However, the Christian People's Party has not made any concrete proposals to, for example: fat, sugar or shower must be made more expensive. I haven't seen it in their budgets until now, but if that's what they think should have been more expensive, I think it's quite 'right' to propose it. To the discussion about value added tax: there is no doubt that we can get into discussions quickly, as the Minister of Finance was also concerned. I imagine a page 3 in the VG, where the little guy in Heia Norway – well, it's called – like saying: Hello in the hatch, for an idiotic suggestion! Come and see here: this is healthy food, it's unhealthy food. In fact, it's going to be completely the opposite if we get a different system of VAT for the different things. If the Seven can make concrete and good proposals on how this should be done, I am interested to be part of the discussion on absolutely all the concrete and good proposals. So one thing in the end, which concerns the proposal on fruit and green. That's great! There is no doubt that if young people get good habits, it will be vital for them to behave as adults. In the surveys carried out and in the sample that has worked in terms of fruit and vegetables — looking at school food and at everything else — it is precisely said. If we put in place a fruit and green scheme for all young students – for all the people – it would be great compared to all the eating habits. Then the young ones would start eating fruit and vegetables, which would affect their diet. Something else that would be good is more physical activity in school. We've said in the Soria Moria statement that we're going to get it in place. It's absolutely necessary to get good habits in youth. Getting up people's activity will bring better results in knowledge. While Kristin Halvorsen, SV's leader, has been ridiculed in the last few years because of some of the initiatives that SV took, the trials SV did, and the election campaign SV led, and where we said that healthy food, healthy food habits and fruit and green – all this – are an important part of the school, both in terms of knowledge and in terms of health, we now see that many more are coming on the field. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]] We're happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1056	I want to thank the interpellant. It is quite obvious that the issues of nutrition, diet and public health are closely related. We have a long tradition in Norway of using the tax system to contribute to a healthy and positive development. It's nothing new. We've always had some demarcation problems. That's our big challenge. Sun and pure food are essential. For pure food: if there is contamination in soil, air or water, contamination accumulates up the food chain. Man is at the top of it, so it's going to be the biggest problem for us. In the case of healthy food: additives, e.g. sugar, will eventually lead to significant problems for many. We have good knowledge — both from medicine and from veterinary medicine — that there are small quantities that are needed to have negative and negative consequences. It is therefore important that most people are informed about these contexts. It is important that most people get closer to themselves that a good part of the body’s sewage treatment system is very important. For example, lymph nodes cannot be replaced, as opposed to others. They must live with the rest of their lives if they are congested. Thematic public health, which has been addressed today, can be exemplified through beverages. There are many ways to drink out of nowhere – there are many consequences. In the view of the Center Party, it is quite obvious that the more natural a beverage is, the more likely it is to be healthy and good over time. Therefore, it is obvious that water has a natural place as No. 1st@item: inlistbox Milk should have a place number. 2, natural juice space no. 3 and coladricks the last place in that tradition. Differentiated VAT on food or on beverages is internationally recognised, while the Ministry of Finance has always had strong counter-representations against it. But we know that today's government has followed up previous governments, which introduced a differentiated VAT, which meant lower food taxes. With regard to the wide area covered by the interpellant, one must be willing to look at both excise duties and VAT. It's not unnatural that we also look at the VAT system when it comes to the different drinks. From my point of view, it is not unnatural to have full VAT on cola drinks – to use that expression – while at the same time having a reduced rate of VAT on beverages that are completely pure, for example water. I'd say it's a very positive interpellation. The Parties agree that public health is an absolutely relevant element. We will work with the interpellant on concrete proposals to reduce the sugar content of e.g.: beverages, which is one of the greatest and most important challenges in the short term.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1071	This interpellation gives rise to some reflections on a theme that we rarely get the opportunity to discuss so accurately in this room. I would first like to make a few comments about the very principle of tax incentives – as it is called in political or economic languages – which are actually about making some goods more expensive and other goods cheaper through taxes, in order to achieve a favourable development in society. It's an instrument that I generally have great faith in, not least I had it in my long-standing commitment to green taxation, which is about steering behavior in the right direction. I'm not of the opinion that this is a 100 pst. the precise instrument, because it is not, as in the theories of economists, that man is 100 pst. rational in its adaptation. But there's reason to think that, for example, For businesses, this seems very precise, because businesses are pretty precise through their calculations. Therefore, green taxation, which primarily goes to business, is a very effective tool. I believe that we, too, as consumers, are reasonably rational in being able to adapt, whether we adapt to the actual level of charges or adapt to what may arise from changes in charges. A good example of this is the car tax conversion that took place at the end of the year, which was directly determined by the fact that people bought diesel cars to a much greater extent. Although diesel cars are still very expensive, the actual tax change and all the attention it created have given a very powerful effect. There is some psychology about these tax changes that also helps to move this in the right direction. I will be allowed to give another example: as an agricultural economist, I know a lot about farmers' behaviour around these things, and I know that few people react so rationally to the kind of instruments that agricultural operators use. Plant protection charges are, for example: a good example of a very rational adaptation of a green fee that has worked. There is reason to believe that these instruments can at least work to some extent also in terms of diet and health effects. I think it is important to stress that the Minister of Finance should be very concerned about dietary and health issues in his strong commitment to Difference Norway, because this is an area where there may be greater differences in Norway than in tax policy and in other areas. This is about people's lives. Life is the most important thing we have – the one we have – and there are differences here. That's why this should be something that gives rise to a lot of commitment. I am also one of those who have listened to the old and trusted Professor Kaare Norum. He has said many times that there is no unhealthy food, there is only bad or unhealthy diet, and that all food can have a place in a healthy diet if put together in a sensible way. It helps to complicate this whole picture a lot. I guess that's what makes it so hard to go into it. Then I just have to confirm that as a member of the previous government I know very well the opposites, also in this area, which comes from professionals – the people of the Ministry of Finance, tax technicians and others. Similarly, I remember that it was the same counter-representation when we introduced differentiated VAT in Norway. Then we had the big debate about whether we should have differentiated VAT in Norway, and I participated in the negotiations that included. led to the halves of the mating mom. At that time, the health aspects of this were not discussed. Other societal effects were discussed. The interests of agriculture were heavily behind it, and also the economics of families with children and many such things. The interfaces of the halved matmom in terms of health were not discussed to any particular extent, as I remember. It may well be that there is a debate that needs to be taken now. So to the question of fruit and green, and whether the fees govern the behavior. Some of us have worked on price elasticity – the effect of the price on demand. I also have a civil life, and I have been a lecturer at gardening schools and taught about the price elasticity of different vegetables and different fruit varieties, which we also know a lot about. What we can roughly say is that it has relatively little effect. Especially in the case of vegetables, people buy the products they want – one is not influenced by the price. There are many more affected by the price of fruit and berries, especially strawberries and slightly finer fruit varieties. Equally full, it is worth going into this, as the Minister of Finance has warned. Perhaps one could make it as simple as a non-driving slum in the added-value system in the grocery stores, but one could throw the shower – as the representative Lundtegen said – the coke and all that up there at 25 pst. and put the fruit and the green down to zero. It would have been a simple interface to do, which shouldn't be very controversial.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1091	There was a lot of moralism here! In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government states that it will have increased focus on physical activity and stimulate measures to improve the health and quality of life of individuals. It's a little bit in line with the interpellation that's being promoted today. Today, we see that sick leave is increasing, hospitals are growing, and the cost of this is growing as a result. I'll get into a slightly different side of the same problem. In the 2007 budget, the Progress Party proposed in its alternative budget a tax exemption for personal training cards paid by the employer of up to NOK 3000. The total proceeds for this measure were 160 million. kr. We got that amount from the Ministry of Finance. This was a measure that none of the other batches found to be special, and they voted against. I can inform you that in Sweden there is a similar scheme, and there is the amount of NOK 6000. According to the tax legislation, it is today that the coverage of a health studio/training studio by an employer is taxed as welfare measures in employment and is therefore taxable for the employee. Derogations shall apply where the measure consists in kind and is considered to be a reasonable welfare measure. In the sense of the Tax Act, ‘reasonable welfare measures’ are measures that address the persons related to the undertaking and intend to increase the well-being and coherence of the workplace, most often in the form of a joint event. An example of this is if the employer himself enters a trim or hires a separate trim for the employees, but a personal training card is not such a welfare measure. These are very rigid provisions, affecting both individuals and the social economy. The response of the training industry is – perhaps not surprising – that today’s rules prevent physical activity. The training tax also discriminates against large and small enterprises. Large enterprises, such as: The size and departments, of course, have free training rooms — and we are satisfied with it — while smaller businesses do not have the opportunity. Nor can they subsidize their employees, so that they can train for free and stay in shape, and thus be less away from the job as a consequence of it, hopefully. Besides, it's typical that this government says it's so concerned with equality. Today’s legislation is such that it is particularly beneficial for male workers, because these occupational sport measures are dominated by men, for example. company football, which is of course a reasonable welfare measure and can therefore be subsidized by the company, while physical activity as training in training centres, which is dominated by women – it is actually 70 pst. women visiting these training centres – taxable. So today's taxing is a violation of the Government's intentions, as they themselves have formulated it in the Soria Moria Declaration – not least I refer to the many plays that both Minister of Health and Welfare Brustad and Minister of Gender Equality Karita Bekkemmelm have had in the media. They've still been seen standing up. There's a lot of big words and a lot of great pictures, but there's no action. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Government introduce in next year's budget a scheme, like that in Sweden, with tax exemptions for personal training cards paid by the employer? It's active welfare policy, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1108	It's always interesting to see how interpellation debates can also be – what to say – an opportunity to present different positions for completely different areas of batch program, but that's the way it is. I have to say that, in sum, I am very pleased with the debate we have had, and with the signals given by the various parties, that one is actually willing to look at the possibility of using fiscal policy in a public health aspect. I see that most people have been willing to – perhaps the Right Party and the Advance Party to the least extent, but from there to the left it has been a positive basic attitude. To the representative, Holmås, I must say that I am pleased that there is such a great deal of faith in the fact that this representative was about to present a complete charging system for which groceries should have what rates. I may not be able to offer that, but I was in my post about removing the VAT on fruit and vegetables from increasing the rate on other foods. I would then like to mention the sugar-containing drinks, which others have also included in the debate, and which today's Daily is a good example of what challenges we are facing in terms of health. We in the Christian People's Party are aware that these are anticonceptions. It's administrative counter-conceptions, and it's boundary counter-conceptions. But we have raised this debate because we want to look at the possibilities, and do not reject the possibilities of influencing public health positively through our tax system. I see it this way, as Lundtägen was also involved, that yes, we have used the charging system before, that is nothing new. That's essentially what we're also pointing at; here we have an opportunity to further develop this. We actually also have a separate sample that looks at parts of this. Finally, if the Minister of Finance agrees with me that if the health impact exceeds the administrative challenges, we are actually politically interested in looking at what can be done to promote public health also in a fiscal and fiscal policy aspect. We want to look at the possibilities, not the difficulties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1121	I largely agree with what is the summation of the interpellant. I think this has been an attempt at a result-oriented debate, in which most of the debaters have contributed. From the point of view of the Progress Party, I think the term ‘fruit and green’ was hardly taken into account in its mouth, but there are also other approaches to the debate on this. I have also tried in my reply to invite a further, prejudice-free debate on this, where we find the most effective means of achieving the objectives that the interpellant is working on. The VAT system is a very important funder of our welfare state, and it is so that new groups come to the Minister of Finance and to the Ministry of Finance who want a lower rate or an exception for their sector, or who try to justify why they should also have a rate of 14 or 8 or 0. So it's clear that in a political context it's also that if you have the feeling that now it's kind of free to come up with all sorts of reasons, then the rise up and maybe the majority will have a significant sense of one argument after another. Such a slide I have no desire to be on. But I see that there is a unanimous desire among a majority of the Storting to look at this in particular, and not a desire to start something that will have a significant contagion effect, or that can be used as an argument that generally undermines the VAT system. And if that's a starting point for the debate, I also think it's much easier to go in and discuss whether there are some breaks that can be made. I would also like to invite you to look at other instruments. I mean very strongly that if we could manage to get good diet habits for the younger and older, you would have it as an investment for the rest of your life, and you would have it as a good contribution to good learning during a school day. It is not in the Soria Moria Declaration that we should introduce school food, it says that we should have a system of fruit and vegetables. But it's clear that it'll have an enormous effect to get a lot in this area. I think I'll end by saying that maybe the biggest challenge is that it's class divider, combined with how busy you are of these things. A great deal of the information and means we have is directed at those who can initially afford to buy more expensive food and who are susceptible to information. The big challenge is to those who are less responsive. I have to say that I am very pleased with such a debate, and I would like to invite you to further constructive cooperation on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1137	Case No. So 5 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1155	What is the characteristic of a good society? According to the UN Human Development Index, the short version of the answer has to be: a society like Norway. It has become a habit that Norway has peaked at this index. The index measures human development by three dimensions: life expectancy, level of education and standard of living. People elected, especially from the government parties – those who are in government at all times – are good at pointing out: Most people in Norway are very good, purely material, although it may not be the impression that they get in this room when the budgetary discussions are going on. The UN Human Development Index does not lie. Norway is an unimaginably good country to live in — for most people. But economic wealth and happiness are not parallel indicators. Man lives on bread, but not on bread. In the transmitted sense: a good social safety network and economic security are absolutely central to the experience of good life — but not enough alone. The private purchasing party is becoming a scourge for society when the by-product is increasing the amount of waste and growing climate emissions. The private purchase party may be a scourge for the individual when owning the latest and ‘hottest’ at any time is necessary to be respected as a human being. The private buyout party will also be a scourge for us politicians if we believe that the safest way to increase excitement is to talk about, focus on and stimulate an even higher consumption. We have many danger signs in society that indicate that the materialistic focus has been taken over in Norway. UNICEF's report on children's living conditions shows that Norwegian children get the most, but they don't have the best. Our children occupy the second top of the list of material wealth, but end up in seventh place after all the other Scandinavian countries based on an overall assessment of how children are doing. Norwegian children are on average among the least satisfied among the children of OECD countries. While wealth has shot for the last 20 years, the ‘level of luck’, as measured in some opinion measurements, has been more or less constant. Even more thoughtful is that in this world's best country to live in, the Church's SOS receives nearly 180,000 calls annually from people who need to talk to someone about life values, life crises or personal problems. If you ask the regular resident, it's not just material standards that you put emphasis on when you're about to describe a good and meaningful life. Then it's probably so much about friends, family, health and social protection. If we were to describe a quality of life society, I think very many would say that there is a society in which there is room for community in close relationships, with family and friends – a society in which people experience a good balance between work and leisure, a society in which people live in balance with nature and the environment. Many people would say that the quality of life society is built from below, that it is a society where individuals and families can choose how to create the good life – and where communities, associations and businesses thrive. Such a society has room for all, regardless of their properties. They might say that the quality of life society is a society that is sustainable in relation to the common environment and the basis of life, and that it is a society that places international poverty in the museum. My question today – and the background to the rise of this interpellation – is this: Are we strengthening the focus on material living standards as the only salvaging factor for a good life by using unilaterally scales that have to do with economic growth and progress in measuring the development of Norwegian society? When the Minister of Finance in his annual budget is to illustrate the effects of the government's proposed policy, it is done through variables such as real growth in private and public consumption, growth in gross fixed capital formation, growth in gross domestic product and in the current external balance. This is done, with all due respect, either the finance minister's name is Kristin Halvorsen or Per-Kristian Foss. This should, of course, also be done by Kristin Halvorsen when she presents the revised national budget in a few weeks and when she presents the national budget for 2008 for the autumn. But my question is: are these enough indicators to measure how social development is being experienced? Can we get hurt by a one-sided emphasis on the growth of these variables to reinforce the perception that growth in private and public wealth is the only thing that brings happiness to the population? And not least, how are we going to get to the conversions in our energy consumption and in our general consumption pattern that most people are starting to agree that climate problems require, if we can't move focus? How are we going to achieve sustainable development if we continue to measure so unilaterally with traditional scales? In my and Christian People's Party's view, it is high time that the societal debate could turn some of its focus from living standards to quality of life and from one-sided growth to sustainable development. We should in no way forget that even in our country we have challenges for individuals and groups to achieve the necessary improvement of living standards. But for most people, that's not the main challenge today. If we're going to get closer to the quality of life society, I think we need a broad, public conversation about how we can get there. Quality of life and sustainable development must be placed on the political agenda. I have noticed that the Minister of Finance, through his responsibility for sustainable development on several occasions, has indicated that she is also Minister of Sustainable Development. I think that is promising, and that is an important mark of the country's finance minister. One way could be for the Government to bring down a wide-ranging sample that could suggest how governments can change the focus from living standards to quality of life in social planning. Work should then be set up in such a way as to include as much as possible individuals, communities, organisations and enterprises. Through such a broad interface, many more could be involved, both as contributors and partners in a capacity for less pressure on consumption and more quality of life, and a more sustainable development. The selection should also propose measures to limit the adverse impacts of the consumption culture, commercialisation and excessive market thinking. There are probably several other good instruments to stimulate such a societal debate and turn the focus on societal planning. The main aim of this interpellation is to establish the broadest possible consensus that there is actually a need to shift focus, and that the Government can continue to work on concrete proposals for action, which it is also carrying out in many important areas. It is also important that indicators that measure quality of life in a broad sense, including in the regular budgetary rounds of the United Kingdom, are effectively reported and evaluated, which, of course, make such important assumptions and leads to social development. Then we can get a different national budget, and we can get a different financial speech than what is traditionally presented to us. It would have been exciting if the Minister of Finance could draw up some lines in relation to it. It is improperly an important and central actor in the social debate that is sitting in front of me now, the country's finance minister. I hope and believe that she will be very committed to bringing a broader and more comprehensive dimension into social planning by developing and reporting measurement indicators that tell more than what the growth of gross national income is saying. Therefore, I would challenge the Minister of Finance to say something about what measures she thinks might be appropriate to contribute to such a shift of focus – from wealth development to the development of quality of life, for example. the development of new indicators for good social development. I want her to be able to explain some of the work she knows she is doing in terms of sustainable development indicators and how this can be seen in the context of the matter in my interpellation. I also ask her to consider whether it might be appropriate to take the initiative of a wide-ranging complex quality of life sample, as outlined in this interview.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1190	I'm going to start this debate by saying very clearly that economic well-being is a starting point for participating in a society. I think the rest of the debate might be a little stranger to those who sit and come along and have bad advice. They notice that people who have good advice say that money is not everything in life. Well, if you have such bad advice that you worry about the next bill, it significantly reduces the quality of life. Let's just take it as a starting point, so it's not to misunderstand when I now go into the issues that the representative Højbråten addresses. At the same time, it is clear that there are many aspects of welfare that are not captured by economic indicators per. today. It's a little bit straight up. A challenge of this might be that they're difficult to measure, but they'll just as well be important in discussing what well-being really is, and how we relate to it. There is always a high risk that indicators in different areas can be easily counted. And then the sum of the knowledge you get, based on what's easy to measure, instead of what's appropriate to measure -- when you have to figure out more about what society really looks like. What we know about well-being, happiness and income growth is that once you reach a certain level of income, money is much less important. You probably don't need a lot of research to figure it out. I think it sounds reasonable. It applies at both individual and national level. At the same time, it is important to be fully aware that the consumption pattern and income pattern we have in Norway today are not sustainable in the long term. There is another important approach to this discussion, namely that the increase in productivity and wealth that we can see in the future must be used for something other than to consume more and more of different types of products that dry up on the environment when they are produced – then I think about more leisure time, more services, more green complex consumption. I'm fundamentally concerned that we have a society that basically includes most in meaningful work. We are carrying out many reforms. The representative of the Højbrätten was also concerned with the same thing when he himself was a minister of the previous government, namely how to include people and give them a safe income so that they can get out of a situation of social security or social assistance – that is, what value it is that everyone initially has an economy where they can secure themselves. Let me focus on the work on indicators on how we measure, and what is concrete. There is, of course, a value challenge in the High-Level Interference, but there is also a challenge in relation to the concrete scales. There are now a number of indicators that take into account more than just economic conditions. A known measure of well-being is the UN Human Development Index, HDI, published annually. This objective includes, in addition to real income, inter alia: life and training starting point. HDI is therefore better suited to compare welfare levels between countries than GDP per capita. Nevertheless, HDI is also a purely mechanical measure. It measures, for example: not the individual’s own experience of happiness. We have a lot of knowledge about this, and study of the relationship between happiness and income suggests that for the individual there is a positive relationship between income and happiness, but a lot of other things are of such importance. For example, studies indicate that a doubling of income has much less to say than for example. It's getting married. It might be a little bit difficult to measure. Then you have to assume that you marry happily, and that happiness lasts for marriage. Studies of what people are willing to pay to have access to pristine nature and water also show that many of the things that matter most to our overall well-being are not goods or services traded in markets. Another example of studies taking into account factors other than purely economic ones is the International Social Survey Programme, which produces data for international welfare levels. The various welfare objectives are happiness, satisfaction with the family situation and work situation, stress related to work and not being tired. Such international comparisons do not give the same rank as when used, for example. UN Indicator, HDI. But it illustrates what can be a challenge in terms of the measurement itself, that this is very complex, and that it is difficult to measure and compare over time and between countries. The central statistical agency publishes a number of welfare indicators showing the development of non-economic conditions. Indicators address demographic and health issues. Furthermore, there are indicators of care, education, work, social protection, housing, leisure and culture, crime and social participation. The SSB also conducts regular life-cycle studies in a number of areas that provide good indications of quality of life in areas other than the economy. In Norway, a significant proportion of the services facing individual residents are produced and provided by the local government sector. The development of these services is therefore of great importance to the well-being of individuals. The Social and Health Directorate and the SSB are publishing together the Steering and Information Wheel, which provides a statistical description of the development of the health and social sector in order to provide a basis for municipalities to compare their situation with that of other municipalities. Let me turn a little bit to what is the Government's current sustainable development indicator set, because the national budget contains much more than the development of GDP or GNI. It also contains 18 different sustainable development indicators. It is my very clear ambition to get much more attention and much more political debate about this, so that we can develop these indicators to become a much more important governance document for economic policy. The government is now working on what should be a consultation opinion on sustainable development. So we're putting our work on these indicators at a public hearing. We'll do that during this magnification session. This will then be consulted in different settings, and the consultation opinions will be part of our work on the 2008 national budget. If I'm going to take some examples of what these indicators contain, they're very much concentrated on welfare goals and sustainability targets. The first indicator is Norwegian aid as a share of GDP. The fifth is the stock development of hedged birds. The other is imports from African countries. The third is Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. The fourth is the proportion of Norway's area, where the tolerance limit for acidification is exceeded. Then I was in the stock development of hedged birds – so it is counted and presented as part of the sustainability of the national budget. The sixth is water systems. The eighth is the state degree of peaceful construction. The ninth is total energy consumption per year. unit gross domestic product. The tenth is the size of the broodstock relative to the yield of the broodstock. The eleventh is the take-off of the productive area. The twelfth is the use of hazardous chemicals for health and the environment in households. The thirteenth is net national income, etc. The latter are more typical wealth indicators. But we lack indicators of values and experiences. I'm really looking for indicators that allow us to get a better, more comprehensive basis that fits with our perspective on sustainable development, because we need to complement this image and get to what's the starting point of the interpellant, that's to shift the focus from wealth development to the development of quality of life. I therefore hope, when this comes to consultation, that the environments that are concerned with the type of approach to the political debate, know their time of visit, are involved in the discussion and propose indicators. Of course, I also invite Stortinget – and the representative Højbrätten in particular – to participate in that discussion in the future. These are the tools and indicators that we work with to improve all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1220	Let me thank the Minister of Finance for what I see as an appropriate response, which takes on the serious intention of my interpellation. She gives some information and takes challenges that I gave in the interpellation. I want to say that measuring the success of the development of this society with indicators other than those we have traditionally used in Norway is quite important in terms of what kind of debate we get, what kind of focus we get in the societal debate. But it's also important that we, as elected representatives, give answers that are proportionate to what people think is important, and then we need to be more able to measure what people think is important. That is why I am pleased with the work done, and have been done, in relation to sustainable development indicators. But I am particularly pleased that the Minister of Finance is concerned with extending the perspective of these indicators. It's a start, and it's good that we get a hearing on that basis. At the same time, it is clear that these indicators too are too narrow in relation to the value challenge of a one-sided focus on material standards. That's why I like to take the challenge of contributing. I also believe that many organisations in Norwegian society – environmental organisations, aid and solidarity organisations, life-vision societies, etc. – will do so, and it is important that they make use of the opportunity provided by this consultation. At the same time, with a lot of knowledge of the power of the Ministry of Finance's apparatus, I have to say that I don't think it's going to be any of this if it's just going to come from voluntary Norway. Investigations, monitoring, indicators used elsewhere in the world must be carried out and there are several international organisations, institutions, etc. which has a broader perspective on its indicators than we have in Norway. I want the Ministry of Finance to play a leading role in this investigation. I think it might be wise to appoint a sample, a working group, but the form of work is not the most important thing. The most important thing is that the Minister of Finance opens up for this to happen, that she takes a leadership there, and that she puts a professional force behind it, so that it becomes something of it. Then I think we can get indicators that are as exciting as – with all due respect – spawning fish and hedged bird, and that it might taste even more bird.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1231	I don't think we're going to germinate by nesting birds and spawning populations when we measure sustainability. I see that the theme here today is to try to find out what kind of indicators we can possibly expand with/replace, and get in to get a better measurement system related to the quality of life and the perception of values that are initially not achieved by means of money or increased consumption. I can't promise that in this version of the consultation draft on sustainable development, we will have a systematic review of the indicators that exist, but the issue comes up. It's a theme that needs to be further worked on. My experience with the Ministry of Finance is that there is an enormous desire and willingness to contribute professionally good advice on how to achieve this. I perceive that there may be broad consensus on the intention. What you really need are expert-level considerations and discussions about what is appropriate to include in a set of indicators, which in any case must be limited. From that point of view, you can go further in this discussion. So, of course, the sum of these indicators does not have to be a separate chapter in the national budget. It must be a governance instrument. The reason why I lift my responsibility for sustainable development so high is that it is not until we get it as an integral part of the way of thinking about economic policy that it really matters to what kind of priorities we are doing in the future. If we, for example, has a little bit of life happiness that we're claping at the top one place, and a little bit of environment and sustainability that we're claping at the top another place, but otherwise we're going on like before, we can't get to the changes and the perspective shifts we need for the social debate. Now there can be a lot of quality of life it is difficult to adopt over budgets. Let's take the example of marriage, which can mean much more for happiness than a doubling of income. It's limited what the government can do here. But I just think the perspective of the debate and the approach to value in the debate is something that many people want to have more attention to. The representative of the Højbräten suggests that we put down a sample about this, but he doesn't put much prestige in that that's just how it's going to be done. I would suggest that we now start by discussing the consultation on sustainable development, and see how far we are going in the context of the 2008 national budget. I don't think there's necessarily a wide range of representatives from different NGOs who are the ones in this field who can eat the most by selecting single indicators, but they can come up with premises for what we can look for in order to get a right picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1246	In the interpellation, the representative Dagfinn Høybråten focuses on quality of life. He says that we need to focus more on the development of quality of life, and suggests that one can develop new indicators for good social development. In the Labour Party, we are quite a few in that quality of life and good social development are important. Therefore, we also like to support the emphasis on this in the social debate. However, I would like to make it clear, in the introduction, that I strongly subscribe to the main point of view with which the Minister of Finance began his speech, simply to stress how important it is that those who have the least resources to help themselves in society must have a secure economic foundation to stand on. In our government statements, there will be, among other things. stated that we should pursue a policy that is anchored in a living government, a sustainable development and a social and societal critical commitment. The government will build its work on freedom, community and sustainability. This is, in our view, some of the basic elements of good social development and to improve the quality of life of individuals. The government builds its work on the idea that all humans are born free, unique and inviolable, and through our policies we will contribute to the freedom of the individual. The government party will solve the big issues by focusing on the Community solutions. We will strengthen public responsibility and the role of the public in the key welfare tasks, such as health, care and education. We will build our environmental policy on the principle of sustainable development, maintain the precautionary principle and solidarity with our descendants. Our objective of fair distribution is for those who live today, and it is for the coming generations. The high-level representative asks the question whether one can move the focus from wealth development to the development of quality of life. I'm saying that quality of life is the most important thing, but one thing doesn't work out the other. On the contrary, the Government's commitment to increased well-being is precisely to improve the quality of life for many. Although money alone is not a cause for good quality of life, it increases well-being and improves public services, so certainly a better life for many. There is a difference for an older person to increase home help from one hour a month to several hours a week. It's the quality of life of young children's parents to be able to send their child, the most precious one has, to a safe nursery, rather than to find a patchwork of schemes with grandparents, neighbors or friends to take care of the landlord, or to take the chance of an unregistered day-old mother with whom one has been contacted through an advertisement in the newspaper. It is an improvement in the quality of life of children and young people who are struggling with mental problems such as anxiety and depression, to receive treatment. Just to improve the quality of life for many, the government has increased the investment in welfare through a strong improvement in the economy of municipalities, with nearly 25 billion kroner, since we took over in 2005. We have increased the number of hands in the care profession, and are soon approaching the target of 10,000 new carers by 2009. The goal of full babysitting is also in a good way to reach. We have presented a plan to improve the supply of mentally ill children and young people and to introduce a waiting guarantee for them. In addition, we have a better number of small and large welfare services, which will help many to improve the quality of life. While the Bondevik II government prioritised taxes, we have chosen to raise taxes to those who already have a lot of money to improve the quality of life of those who make things worse in society. We haven't come far enough to consider other factors in social development than the purely economic ones. There is therefore good reason to focus strongly on quality of life and not just on the economy of people and nations. In this context, I would like to mention in particular the International Social Survey Programme, which is carrying out an important work in this field that can show direction for any of the ways we should go in time, which also the interpellant has pointed out in a constructive way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1263	This is an important debate, but it can be attacked in many ways. One can turn it into a debate on the measurement of technical indicators on whether people who respond to polls have a good thing, or one can discuss that people are different, and that it is difficult for politicians to decide that some kind of quality of life is good and another is less good. I want to establish that economic prosperity is good. I think, as the previous speaker, that there is not necessarily a contradiction between economic prosperity and quality of life. For most people, the economic and material prosperity we experience today has been largely positive. For example, I think that most people have a more comfortable life today than they had before. Most people probably feel more secure than they did before, not only socially, but also in terms of abuse by others. People have more leisure time in general, and they like to use it in a way that takes their breath away. The ability to control one's own everyday life is greater now than before. People live longer despite lifestyle diseases, which were debated in the previous interpellation. I think the diversity that people have to choose in terms of both work, work opportunities and leisure is greater than it has been before. This is positive. And that wouldn't have been available to the same extent we wouldn't have had the economic prosperity. At the same time, I have a great deal of understanding that a person will problematize aspects of the pursuit of money – for some people it can also be a result. I have a great deal of understanding that one will problem it and say that prosperity does not automatically mean a happy life or a good quality of life. But this problematization is not new, neither for politicians nor for people most. I think everyone is trying to optimize their own quality of life, but one has different judgment, one has different risk assessment, and one has different time horizons for their choices. What I consider to be important choices in my life, for my quality of life, I think for many others would seem to be quite python. I know, for example. that while I thought I was really good at playing in the Corps, many of my friends would go a long way to avoid meeting me on that very occasion. I think that when I get my spiritual refill, there are many who think it's completely wasted time, but it's important for my quality of life. People are different, but I think everyone has in common that family and friends, nature, environment and experiences matter to the quality of life, but in a different assessment. Politicians can contribute to the quality of life frameworks in society. I was into this with a safe society. The fact that one feels that legal certainty works, that the police are working, that one can walk around safely without the risk of being raped, that is a problem in Oslo today, that one has a good health service independent of income or where one lives, that one has a good care for the elderly who is there when one needs it, that one gets a good education, and that this is available to all regardless of whether one sits at the top or at the bottom of the table, I think is important for people's experience of quality of life. In addition, the economic system, that one has work that ensures material prosperity, not least housing, food and heat, is essential. We can make a little visit to China when we talk about sustainable development, which is often a natural part of the discussion about quality of life. It is difficult to judge China when we know that, on the one hand, 400 million people have come out of extreme poverty, while on the other hand they have huge environmental problems, and air pollution is one of the most frequent causes of death in China today. It is not easy to tell China that they should not have gone the way they have gone, when 400 million people undoubtedly have a much better life, while hundreds of millions of people still have a piece left before they can experience the same joy. What we can do is we can make sure that they have access to the same technology, that they have access to the same experiences, especially where we've made mistakes, so that they don't have to make all the same mistakes that we've made, and that they can address the environmental challenges at an earlier stage. But we see that the population flow in the world goes from land where it is unsafe to land where it is safe, from land where there is poverty, to land where it is rich. People are looking for wealth development, and they also believe that increased wealth will provide better quality of life. Not everyone experiences it that way. But that's what people are looking for, and I don't think we even want to ignore it. The danger is that when a person does not experience the quality of life in the welfare society of Norway, it is because he likes to become a number in the range of those who receive services when to distribute services. One has to put the family in the center, but one also has to give people freedom of choice when one is going to get municipal, or public, services, so that they actually feel like they have something to say in this. The public has to finance it, yes. But people have different preferences, and then the system has to be able to help you make the choices you want. Respecting people’s choices is a contribution to improving quality of life — in addition to material prosperity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1280	I don't see the representative's interpellation so that he wants to raise well-being, prosperity and economic development to the quality of life and level of happiness, which perhaps some people might have been involved in. What he's asking us to do in this interpellation is perhaps to raise our eyes a little bit and see what society we have here in Norway, and whether we might have to look at whether there are more important things than the oil-corrected budget deficit, the rule of action or how much oil money we intend to spend. I think it's very important that we do that. To find this quality of life, to find this higher level of happiness, I think an important place in society to start is from below. This is created in the community, it may be created in the even smaller organizations. I think it was the Minister of Finance who, in his nuanced response, talked about happy marriage and set it up against halving or doubling wealth – I'm not quite sure what it was. But it's on the microplane. It's in the workplace, it's in the family, it's in the school. But then, as politicians, we have to make sure to develop the personal responsibility that humans have, even for their own lives. It may sound like a saying, but I think it's actually possible for politicians to set up politics and the social debate in such a way that the population perceives that it's important that you want the good, but that it also requires something. And now I'm not talking about tax relief and wealth tax. This also goes down in non-governmental organisations, those that organize so many people in this country. We heard Ketil Solvik-Olsen talk about music orps. Yes, it creates happiness for someone, not to blow on horns, but to be in non-profits, to be with someone else. There is also cultural development. I have to say that the representative of the Højbrätten's proposal for a sample is exciting. I don't think the Right will oppose it. I see that it is difficult to find indicators of our level of happiness and how quality of life is. However, it is important to strengthen policy in key areas, such as family, personal responsibility, non-governmental organisations, and not least in the fight against poverty. So maybe the most important thing. This debate is being very updated by the climate debate we've had in recent times, where the idea that this planet's future might have a constraint, that it might have a constraint that makes the generations not infinite. There is also a generation perspective. I think that in this measurement of quality of life there is something very important in this: what can we leave to the next generation? And no, Minister of Finance, I'm not thinking about the inheritance fee. I'm thinking that we can deliver a society based on a kind of values and a kind of attitude that makes the next generation maybe get that legacy that they have a different perspective on the quality of life compared to the economic values.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1295	It is not often that we are invited to take these major debates about the overall values. I think it's great. It is great that Dagfinn Højbråten has travelled this interpellation. But I want to give back two concrete challenges that go into the relationship between life and learning. When it comes to value debates, it often turns out to be a real-life policy, and then you sit down in a little coffee- or tea-slabbering and have a discussion about what are the real values here in life. It's a form of indulgence that you can't do. Value discussions are only relevant if they actually have an effect on how we run the rest of society. That's why I think the invitation to discuss indicators, or discuss how we're going to manage to set some goals over others, over the goal of as much economic growth as possible, which is what otherwise controls a lot of economic policy, is an important initiative. It is great that the Minister of Finance is being challenged, precisely because, after all, she is responsible for economic policy and development there. But let me do the two challenges that lie here. One goes on the relationship between public consumption and most private growth and personal consumption, and the other goes on justice and distribution. First public consumption: In the previous government, in which Dagfinn Høybråten put in as a member of the government, there was one objective of economic policy that was general to all others, and it was the following – a somewhat difficult, knotty and indispensable formulation: the growth in the expenditure side of the government budget should be lower than the growth in the gross domestic product of mainland Norway. It meant, to put it simply, that the increase in private consumption should be at least equal to the increase in all the oil money we put into the economy every year. So that's the same thing as saying that as much money as possible, that's a large proportion of the money generated by the growth of the economy, it's going to be channelled right into tax laws, it's going to be channelled right into money that's going to go for private consumption. That's what the Sem statement said. Then I say: Up against this, our government has a different policy. Our government has a policy that says that the whole growth of the oil economy plus part of the tax credits given under the previous government is going to go to public consumption. Why do I think this is important for the precisely what the Dagfinn Højbrätt takes up in its interpellation? Well, if we look at what it is that just creates security, love, etc. – which in a sense are values that I feel Dagfinn Højbrätten argues at least that we should include in this account – that is, the power to master everyday life, the possibility of securing, etc. – it is precisely that home help has more time for each individual, that the individual receives the pensions and income insurance through the social security system that is absolutely necessary, that each person receive training and a follow-up and a special pedagogical step-up, training in prisons, all the things that go on a broad welfare service. What we know about the economy is that every penny spent in the public sector creates more jobs, creates more people who actually provide welfare to the individual than the money given in tax laws, because they're just going to increase private consumption. That's the one. Then my question to Dagfinn Højbrätten – which I think he should answer at the end of the debate – is simply: would it be that if Dagfinn Højbrätten would again create governance for economic policy, which is what we are talking about here, and which is why it is the Minister of Finance who is being challenged, he is willing to say: Do you know what, it should not be that most of the growth in the economy should go to private consumption? Most of the growth should increase the welfare of individuals, or go to increased public expenditure in the form of, for example. transfers in aid to the Third World. So to the second point -- to the very end -- and it's about fair distribution and justice. I mean, if you look at societies, you see that societies where economic differences between people are great, also are the societies where you find most unhappy people. Is Dagfinn the High Commissioner agreeing that it should be an objective not only to reduce poverty but also to create greater economic equality and increased economic justice between people, and that this can be a good indicator, for example. for what the Minister of Finance drew up in the previous round?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1310	On the part of the Christian People's Party, we must say it has been a very constructive debate. Maybe I was a little surprised now at the angle Heikki Holmås took, because then we got this old skim-debate about who would agree well, and who would just care for the individual, so I might have to allow myself to recapitulate something in relation to that particular post. Firstly, it is clear that with Minister of Finance Halvorsen we have the highest consumption level we have ever had in this country, I believe. It avoided the representative Holmås mentioning. In addition, it is also likely that value creation that takes place outside the public can also be positive in human life. It is not the case that every krone must be channelled through public budgets in order for it to operate for the benefit of the Community. I am very aware that SV wants to share the goods, but it also requires that someone creates the goods. A policy that does not have that in itself cannot – at the extreme – become a policy of solidarity, in our opinion. What I'm interested in is discussing further, is how to operationalise indicators that are not as simple to mark, as the Minister of Finance actually was involved in his statement. If you ask yourself or your closest friends about what matters in their lives, what matters most, I think many people are concerned about – as many people have been about – that first of all you have to have your basic needs covered. But when it's done, I think a lot of people will answer: it's their health, that's how I feel about my family, how my friends feel, and how the community where I live works. So you can ask the question, what is it in our economic sense that promotes those very values, in addition to the economic indicators? These include: the interpellant has taken up its interpellant, and which I think the Minister of Finance has responded very positively to. I have to sort of distance myself from what the representative Holmås says, that this is primarily a part of a left–right policy, which I got the impression that Holmås wanted it in his post. For us, this is a question, regardless of the political point of view, of how we can measure a society that has qualities in it as well as material things.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1326	The centre party is very pleased with the interpellation and the clearly expressed point that we need to shift the focus from wealth development to quality of life. We're in a situation where few countries have a better chance of doing this than today's government. The government’s long-term programme should then be called in the future: another country that is not maritime enough – that is, the other country that places emphasis on quality of life, but also has the international perspective on the course we set. I think there is a reasonable consensus about the bottom plan that must be in place for the changed focus, namely that the allocation of material goods and welfare services must be in place. In this respect, I think the inter-pellant is quite satisfied with the priority that the current government is making. When it's said that maybe setting up a quality of life selection could be an instrument, we in the Center Party are sceptical about it. We did not get the necessary debate and change in connection with the reduction and result of the Value Commission, so I believe that the need is a stronger public change of words with clearer opinions. We need to be aware that there are strong counterpowers to shift the focus. Today's organisational communities represent to a large extent the economic growth forces, so there are very strong forces that want to continue what we are inside. We know that with economic growth as an indicator, there is an increasing amount of money per person. builds up, it means that new needs are being created, i.e. more economic markets and an overall increase in material consumption, all the time stressed that private consumption should increase more strongly than public consumption. In terms of quality of life indicators, I think it is a demanding point to outline it. However, we know that another focus involves new role models. It involves a new leadership. The question is what and how to do this. However, it is clear that the longer term one has a perspective, the greater the emphasis being placed on quality in relation to wealth development. So the premise of long-termity is a good entry point. We are now in the midst of an emerging environmental debate, which will eventually mean that we will focus on reducing the consumption of storage energy, and we will have an increased commitment to renewable energy, whether it be water, wind or bio. It reminds me of the corresponding debate in the 1970s. It was then a slogan that the resource economy should replace the market economy. We got the deep-ecological movement with, among other things. Sigmund Kvaøy Setereng, and for my part, I got to know Professor Sigmund Borgan, who was very focused on resource economy. At the time, it was a strong objective that the Ministry of the Environment should have an overall role in relation to the Ministry of Finance. I don't think it's a bad idea to go further along the understanding that the Ministry of Environment, which is much more caring for the long-term biological resources, has a greater role and that it can be part of the sharper political change of words that is needed. Then for role models from everyday life. For example, quite centrally, the travel distance to work, and that we could get into the political debate that one should shorten the travel distance to work. There are many people who today have short nominal working hours, to use that expression, but the absence from home today is much greater than that in the 1950s, because the distance to work is so great. Political leadership is very central in this shift of focus. For the Center Party, there might be reason to develop our old slogan that growth is not to consume more, but to manage better. I think it's a good slogan when it comes to shifting focus. This should also be the central focus of the Government's long-term programme, where one also takes the environmental challenge seriously, because the environmental challenge and quality of life are to a large extent two aspects of the same issue when we see it in a long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1349	It's the day of the great reflections in the Storting, and such days we definitely need. Whether it's a day to philosophize or to say that this is a real economy, the different statements have the hallmark of having different opinions about. I want to contribute to the debate by drawing attention to a work that was done in the last year by a group of researchers at BI who were given a mission – by everyone from the NHO – to look a little bit at a 2030 perspective based on the globalised economy. The reality is that they ended up where the interpellant Høybråten is, and maybe not where the NHO wanted or thought they would end up. I'll make a few short quotes. They describe, for example: first happiness and quality of life in today's society, in 2007. They ask the question, ‘Can we buy happiness?’ – or quality of life, then. They say, ‘The short answer is yes. Rich people are on average happier than poor people. And rich countries have, on average, clearly more happy inhabitants than poor countries. But the relationship is not simple and linear. Money does not buy you ever more happiness. Studies of people's happiness confirm the assumption that as soon as you have enough clothes, houses and food, every extra penny you get will start to mean less and less." And then they also say, and that's interesting. "Can we then buy happiness? The figures say, yes, the money creates more mental well-being until the level of rich countries reached in 1950-60 years. But no, too. Further increases in income above this level do not give rise to any more happiness or satisfaction.» This is based on empirical and human studies as researchers do. So they make a jump until 2030 and try to draw a picture of the society we want then, and that's pretty interesting in this debate. They say, ‘As of 2030, the content of the policy has been substantially distorted. The typical themes of the 1900s, such as security, income balancing and distribution, have been left behind for the benefit of the theme of human development and objective happiness – which is now among the striking issues of tabooism. One of the insights that contributed to the transition from GDP to GDP to GDP as the main social indicator was the number of figures from the 25-year period 1985-2010.’ [[Gross domestic product]] [[Gross National Happiness]] At the end of the day, what is interesting is the policy – it is still in 2030: ‘In competition between the parties it became clear that lower tax commitments’ – see. the debate before today – «or income equality» – see. also Right and SV, I had almost said, in the debate so far – ‘was little suitable for meeting this new policy topic. Happiness levels have been more evenly distributed than income throughout the period 1985-2030.» This challenges the right-left and the traditional right-left conflict of policy. In this way, I think it is important to bring into the debate that the theme that the representative Højbräten, leader of the Christian People's Party, has addressed today, at my discretion, is a bit of the explosive of the centre values in front of a debate that follows only the right-left-axis of politics. I think this is an important debate. It's an exciting debate. I think we're going to see a development that will primarily be driven from below. I think the Minister of Finance is right that people are going to be concerned that today's wealth is not sustainable, and that people also experience that the increased values they acquire in different ways are not used for environmentally harmful consumption, but for something that is more important when you get at a certain level of consumption. It's about services, experiences and time to be together. Just one such thing as spending money on good restaurant visits, there's nothing environmentally damaging about it. If you stay away from too much alcohol – via the President of the representative Højbräten – everyone can say that it must be good if our wealth is going in the direction that we are experiencing more, and if there is also a food minister present who should be happy that people are willing to pay more for food if there is an experience framework around it, it might be an example of the way that wealth development can go. I think that in many ways this is going to be the case. Then I hope that the debate in the future will not be as I had a little bit of the impression of representatives of the government parties, both Holmås, Sandal and Lundtegen: happiness is a bit red-green, now we have a red-green society, and then we are happy. This debate requires a higher level than that. In the end, I want to mention that the Low Emissions Committee, which was appointed by the previous government and is now taken over by the new government, and which is common good, pointed in many ways in a different direction to social development: how to get a renewable society that is going to have a completely different framework and demands for material development than what our very fossil-based society is built on. I think the way about the strong environmental exposure is also the way that goes in the direction that interpellant wants to be priced.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1386	I am very pleased that the representative Høybråten has raised this interpellation, because it is an incredibly important topic. There are no simple answers or solutions to the question. I think that too many people are showing up in the political debate as a race to give the most in crowns and ears. That's right. There are differences in how the different parts will use the heads and ears. But what all parties have in common is that they have the goal and the wish that people get better. Quality of life and happiness are not just goods and gold. It shows both research and surveys. That is why, in the Workers' Party, we agree with the representative, Højbräten, that emphasising quality of life and good social development is important in the societal debate. In our political platform, we say that there should be a policy that is rooted in a living democracy, sustainable development and social and societal commitment. We say that freedom, community and sustainability should be fundamental elements of good social development and improve the quality of life of individuals. As the representative Sandal said, we – every human being – are born free, unique and inviolable. We're different, and we're going to be different. For me personally, it's important that my family, my kids and my sister are doing well. That I have friends who appreciate me, that I can appreciate someone, that I can walk barefoot in the grass, and that the birds chirping, makes me feel good. But nevertheless, the development of the community is important, not just to me, but to more people, so that every human being is given security in everyday life, and know that one has the same opportunity as all the others, regardless of the size of the wallet, regardless of who is the mother or your father. Being sure that you have a job to do is perhaps the most important thing, because you do something that is meaningful, which gives content to life. You feel useful and kind of used, you feel that you're needed, just to be honest. You get money on the account, which gives you food on the table. It gives freedom and independence. Knowing that you get a nursery place at a price you can afford to pay, where you can deliver the girlfriend and the best you have, and knowing that the kids are being cared for, and knowing that the kids can go to the SFO and not have a key around the neck and go home alone to empty houses, also gives some people the quality of life. It's important to know that when the class is going on a trip, you can be there, because it's free to go on a school trip. You're not the one who's left and can't be there because you can't afford it. Knowing that mom, dad, grandma and grandpa get the help they need when they need it is important to have good quality of life. Focusing on social cohesion and balancing the differences becomes important. We have to give everyone the opportunity – there is security in everyday life. Research has shown that the degree of economic inequality in a society has an impact on health in all walks of life. Greater bias will result in lower public health than in communities with the same average wealth level, but with a more even distribution of income. This hypothesis was formulated in the early 1990s when the British Richard Wilkinson showed a positive correlation between income distribution and life expectancy in nine industrialized countries. These findings on the health-enhancing effect of social equality have echoed policy in many countries around the world and through reports, investigations, etc. These findings are also discussed in the recent action plan on social inequalities in health of the Directorate for Social and Health. But the most important thing and what I am most pleased about is that the representative Højbråten focuses on in his interpellation, is the need for increased understanding in the population of the measures that you will have to take here to land to help us get the global sustainable development that we want. We cannot sit here on the mountain and dig more goods and gold at the expense of the world's poor. Knowing that if we want to, we can change our lifestyle and take action to make it a fairer distribution in the world, giving good quality of life in itself. That the government is now updating Norway’s strategy for sustainable development and updating the indicators, that this should take place on a wide-ranging consultation, and that everyone should be included, I think it is incredibly good. We cannot decide here that people should be happy, but here we can adopt measures and provisions that provide people with security. I think when people have security in everyday life, it gives happiness and quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1412	It is thought-provoking – perhaps even something similar to a paradox – that when the Storting invites the Government to discuss how to dampen the interest in material values, it is the Minister of Finance, of all those who respond on behalf of the Government. But it is well, if it is a paradox, quite striking for what is the challenge in today's Norway, and on which the interpellant has wanted to raise a debate. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world, we say many times a day, both in this room and in most other rooms in this country. Alternatively, we say that Norway is the richest country in the world. That's statistically correct. What either you count national wealth per. head, or national income is calculated per head. head, then Norway comes to the top of any conceivable statistics. But what we almost never comment on or discuss is the much more interesting fact that among all the rich countries in today's world, Norway is by no means the most recent – that is, the country that has spent the shortest time relocating the distance from a society of scarcity of material goods to a society of abundance of material goods. Now it's an old experience that new rich people are rarely to be in the house with, simply because success has an adventurous urge to go to the head of people, and in the head it takes away the gait: the ability to see the difference in large and small, important and irrelevant. What really is the curse of abundance – if you're going to use such a strong word – is that it has a strange pull effect in the direction of making our concepts one-dimensional. We've had the experience, maybe like the first generations in Norway's history, that it's incredibly fascinating how much you can buy for money when you just have enough of them. Then we fall for the temptation to believe that then everything in this world must be available for money. Then all the values have to be quantifiable in heads and ears. The problem with it is that man himself is not one-dimensional, and never is going to be one-dimensional – fortunately. All people reap before or since the experience that there are fundamental values in this world that cannot be bought, either through public budgets or through the individual wallet, whether they are never so full – simply because the basic human experience values cannot be purchased. Already Garborg knew quite a lot about it and wrote a very impressive poem, where he among other things. reminds me that you can slowly buy yourself a beautiful new bed with associated new bed linen, but no one can buy themselves a night sleep. The problem is that the unmeasureable values, the unquantifiable values, those that can't be bought for money, we often imagine maintaining ourselves. Nobody in today's Norway thinks that our houses or our cars are self-sustaining. We are willing to do anything to take care of the material values and prevent them from being degraded. But we think funny enough that the intangible values maintain themselves. They don't. There was a rather thoughtful feature on the Day Revy last night from Israel, where pictures of a motorcyclist were shown hugging between two large vehicles in the middle of a crossroads and became lying dead. The cars continued for a quarter of an hour afterwards to drive by without anyone stopping, and without anyone at all thinking that there might be a need for an effort from someone. It's a reminder of a classic old story, just that at the time it was about pedestrians and not about vehicles – about the man who came out to robbers and was lying down suggested and bloody in the fender, and then you passed by. That is the real challenge of the quality of life problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1437	Let me start by saying that I am happily married, and that I have been there for 25 years – perhaps except when I am home this weekend! When I hear the opposition here today, I really enjoy the election campaign. Right-wing upholds the Government's tax policy. So what are we going to do with a right? The Progress Party is concerned about the increase in equity. Then they must also be very happy that we now have a government that does not depend on the support of the Progress Party so that we get the increase that we got in the last growing period. The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen had a post that he could hold four and a half minutes off at the National Labour Party meeting. He could be embraced by the AUF. And then he spent the last half minute in his post to tear down everything he had said. It's like building the welfare community in the same way as building a tower by putting dominoes on top of each other: it takes a long time, but it's overturned in a hand turn. Had someone measured my quality of life now, the account had contained more than my wealth account. But it's pay tomorrow, too. This is an affordable interpellation, because quality of life is the most important thing for any human being. A good quality of life is something as simple as being comfortable with yourself and others. A minimum pensioner can have a much better quality of life than a multimillionaire, and a municipal employee can have a much better quality of life than a growth representative. That's what they said. But one thing that is crucial for a good quality of life is safety – health security, for your own economy and for homes and food. The framework of the welfare state is, in the view of the Workers' Party, the best tool we have for a good quality of life. That is the political outcome of political decisions that we, as big-scale representatives, can do something about. I think, for example, that the deterioration in the quality of life for those in need of security was greater in the cut of the previous government than the improvement in the quality of life achieved by the tax havens. The richest have, as the Minister of Finance pointed out quite correctly, an economy so they can manage, and well so. That being said, I believe that the focus of the social debate is actually different now from that of the previous government. Today we do not see a rapporteur's uprising, because the municipalities have increased their framework. That means that more people get care, more people get help with what they need. Today, there is no general demand for a more active industrial policy, because we have a government that pursues an active industrial policy. Today, there is a focus on environmental policy, because we have a government that has high demands and is willing to follow up. Today, people don't need fear of being thrown out of work for no reason, because they have a work environment law that guarantees them rights. Soon young children's parents don't have to be afraid of not getting their children into kindergarten, because it's full kindergarten coverage. Those in need of care have far more opportunity to get it today than with the previous government. Those who want work will get it. Many, many more examples exist, but ultimately there is security, self-confidence and self-recognition that determine whether you have a good quality of life. To what the representative Syversen of the Christian People's Party said, I would say that those who experienced the removal of the infant supplement, those who experienced the need to pay more on the SFO, and those who experienced the reintroduction of prowess on drugs on the blue prescription for the elderly and the disabled, actually got a deterioration in the quality of life under the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1454	I could have put up my interpellation and the post here today. I could make myself amused on behalf of the Government and the Minister of Finance, on the growth of private consumption. I could talk about the municipal growth that comes from increased tax revenue that no one has planned or expected, but which is of course part of the situation of municipalities. But I have not chosen such a polemic approach, because I wanted a debate on something much more fundamental than the usual political pingpong game that we have unfortunately seen a lot more in the debate here. I think it has been consistently very good feedback from the government. I think there's a consensus that we're measuring what's easiest to measure. We don't measure what people think is most important. But we have a finance minister who wants to do something about it, and who will bring the issue raised in this interpellation into the consultation on sustainable development indicators and the work to follow up on it, towards future national budgets. I look forward to that with anticipation, because today we have a development that is not sustainable in relation to the environment, which is not sustainable in relation to international distribution, nor sustainable in relation to what people place on as the most important thing when social protection is at the bottom – as I have said in my speech, and which I therefore do not repeat. The representative's salary was in at a point from my associate Arne Garborg, and I'm going to end the debate with the whole poem: "For money, a few things can be called. - No, one can't. One can buy food, but not food, drops, but not health, soft beds, but not sleep, learning, but not white, stew, but not kindness, shine, but not pleasant, fun, but not joy, comrades, but not friendship, servers, but not trust, gray hair, but not honor, quiet days, but not peace. The scale of all things can be a few for money. But not the core; it's not for money." I think we have had a debate that has been at the heart of politics, the core of human life. It has had its political and ideological overtones. That's fine, because my point was not to create some sort of idyllic consensus across ideological differences, but to get us tools in the political debate that can tell us something about how our society evolves – other indicators than the traditional ones. The government is doing well. I give tribute to the Minister of Finance to address this in as offensive a way as she has done, and I look forward to being presented with proposals for indicators also in terms of quality of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1468	I think this has been a debate that has value in itself, because I think a discussion about value issues is also an important part of the attention we have around it. It is true that more people have been involved in the discussion: we have a consumption growth and a private consumption – and to the extent that a public consumption – that is beyond what it did just a few years ago. So the question is, what does that do to us? Is that something you measure in happiness? If I start from my own self-experienced post, the Ministry of Finance, which is a place where we sometimes just get degrees by mouth, then it's very strange to see that almost all the enquiries come from people who have no particular sin from a material point of view, or who have committed some great injustice against. A few enquiries come from people who are in a desperate situation. To a very large extent, I think that a discussion about values and what kind of societies we live in can also make us more aware that we are among the luckiest in the world, and that the most important thing we can fill our lives with must be something constructive, and not sitting and irritating over the little things that still don't work. I think that's actually part of that discussion as well. Then there is a lot of cross-thinking in the debate. If you, for example, ask a kid at the end of the summer vacation: what's the funniest thing you've ever seen? – Say that it is a young person who has been to Disneyland – yet you can get the answer: It was the day Dad and I found a toad. There's something about all the experiences that we don't measure or capture in any way, but that we should try to figure out how we can manage to focus on. But this must not lead to a depoliticized debate. Obviously, we have to make some important choices here. If we take the environment and sustainable development seriously, well, we have to make some important choices. If we take some of these questions seriously, we also have to make some choices. But I see that the goal of putting this on the agenda is not just to act like some consumer monsters and think that it's the happiness of life. And then, of course, we want a right-hand axis and a left-hand axis, but we also want an axis with more materialism and less materialism. I think this is very exciting. I don't think we're going to get completely into the goal of the 2008 National Budget in relation to how we're going to do it, but I think we can take this with us to a further discussion on how we can have more approaches when we're discussing economic policy than what's easiest to measure and count.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1479	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1493	As case spokespersons, it is a pleasure for me to be able to present an opinion to the entire committee. The Economic and Social Committee endorses the Government's proposal that Norway participate in its Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme (CIP). Participation in the CIP involves large financial obligations for Norway over several years. The total quota is approximately 625 million. kr, or an average of 89 million. kr per. year of the programming period until 2013, i.e. for seven years. But even if it obliges us financially for many years, the Committee agrees with the Government that this is a commitment we will give priority to. Inclusion in the CIP programme will be an important part of the Government's commitment to an offensive innovation policy, which is central to our continuing growth and value creation in business and in the country, and not least to facilitating the business and employment of tomorrow. The CIP programme has a particular focus on small and medium-sized enterprises, including on a European scale. This means that it is relevant for many parts of Norwegian business, including those relatively large under Norwegian conditions. The programme will also be part of the Government's initiative to renew the public sector. The CIP aims at strengthening innovation and competitiveness in European businesses, creating an innovative and inclusive information society and promoting energy efficiency and increasing renewable energy use across Europe. The programme is one of the EU's main tools for increasing employment and economic growth. The objectives shall be achieved through efforts in three sub-programmes — an ICT policy programme, an energy programme and an innovation and entrepreneurship programme. Eco-innovation and eco-innovation are a comprehensive theme of the programme, which makes it particularly interesting and important. The government has seen a lot of ambition when it comes to the environment. Norway shall be a transitory country on the environment. And we have good intentions that Norway should also be able to become a transitory country in environmentally friendly technology. Some think that the government's high level of ambition, Norway as an environmental nation, is a problem and a negative factor for business. It's too defensive. Rather, we have to look at it as a challenge that we can address and that can give our businesses a competitive advantage in the next round. We have a high level of knowledge in this country, and we have a resilient and competitive business. It – combined with a government that will invest in business development – is a good tool for happiness. Through an active industrial development, we shall focus on developing Norwegian environmental technologies. In the future, it could be an important export product. Through the CIP programme, Norwegian enterprises will have better access to markets and cooperation projects in Europe. By linking Norway to this programme, the Government also facilitates access for Norwegian actors to both financial instruments in the EU and important meeting places. Norwegian and European enterprises can thus cooperate across borders. I see great potential for Norwegian participation in the CIP, and in the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government has underlined the importance of international cooperation. It is also important that we are already on the program in the start-up phase, in order to influence the devices themselves on the program. I am pleased to be able to present a complete set-up and the Stortinget to decide that Norway should participate in this important programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1519	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2857]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1535	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1544	The case concerns Document No. the 8th proposal from the Right to remove housing and price regulation for agricultural property. In concrete terms, the proposal: ‘The Government is asking the Government to promote legislative amendments to remove the obligation to live and to regulate the prices of agricultural property.’ The proposal would remove the obligation to live in both the law of no part and the law of concession. The removal of price regulation of agricultural property will also have consequences for both the law of nobility and the law of concession, since proposals and comments do not distinguish between the different price adjustments in these laws. The progress party suggests in the setting: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose the repeal of the law on concession by acquisition of real estate [[Concession Act]] In the Committee's comments, the Advance Party also goes in to abolish the whole law of no part. The members of the Committee of the Left do not have any substantive comments on the proposal by the Right. Reference is made to a number of relaxations in living conditions and price regulation during the previous government. At the same time, it is said that ‘the decisions of the European Court of Justice’ show that the Norwegian residence obligation can no longer be personal. The members of the Committee of the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) state that compulsory housing is a central instrument of district and agricultural policy, but does not comment on the provisions of the concession law on socially sound price levels. The party has a special remark where one says that one will consider further proposals from the Government on the practice of the residence obligation and exemptions from it if the Government actually makes such proposals. The Government Parties – Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre Party – reject the proposals of the Right and Advance Party, and insist on the principle of compulsory residence and compulsory employment, which was enshrined in the Convention Act in 1974, and the objective of maintaining a socially sound price level for the marketing of agricultural property. For government parties, it is important to ensure the recruitment of active professionals to the industry and to facilitate ownership of agricultural property, which provides a basis for long-term, good resource management. In order to achieve this, the parties to the Government consider that it is necessary that the price level of agricultural property is not higher than that reflecting the value of the property's operating base and the value of the property as a residence, while not requiring unreasonable equity. The Committee setting rarely shows large principal ideological dividing lines. The progress party shows its true liberal face, and will repeal the entire concession law. This is a historically well-known position from the early 1900s, where, through majority decisions, we were introduced concession laws by the Norwegian metropolitan community. Then, as now, those who represented faceless capital fought against any law that imposes social obligations on ownership. At present, the right is increasingly moving in the liberalist direction and is now proposing to remove the principle of accommodation and price regulation. In 1974, when we got the housing obligation in the concession law, the right was for impersonal living, i.e. the owners of the farm were to ensure that the farm was inhabited. For the Centre Party, the issue of legal obligations relating to ownership is an important part of the basic views of the Party. Agricultural land requires smooth care and long-term management to produce renewable resources and provide rich natural and cultural experiences for people. International and national experience in generations demonstrates the importance of ownership policy in implementing this. Norwegian property policy has provided both better distribution of power, more living settlements and more long-term resource management than has been the case in countries with which it is natural to compare us. The centre party is a hot defender of the meridian peasantry that actively operates the agricultural property. This is a principle which, irrespective of party political membership, has fundamental security of settlements. Builders know that the combination of laws with associated obligations and good income opportunities of full-time or part-time work from agricultural property is necessary to realise this social vision. The major problem for personal living today is that authorities have deliberately removed or not prioritised income opportunities for young people either on or off the farm when they live on a farm. As a result, the settlement of the personal housing obligation crumbles up, while systematically attacking and undermining the personal housing obligation from right-wing forces in Norwegian policy, whether represented by the Progress Party, the Right Party or the Left of the Day. With today's communication technology, such as broadband fiber for each household, many distance disadvantages for people living on and working from farm use are completely gone. This is not least the case in the service industries. Combined with this fact, there are at the same time very many young families who view residence on a farm as a good and safe life. These people's hopes and longings must be safeguarded, and the Central Party has their guard here. There is therefore a need for a very different focus from the Government on the organisation of good income-bearing work within or outside agriculture for interested farm young people. Thus, this housing obligation becomes a selection criterion for the benefit of young people who will both own, live and manage agricultural property. We have many young people who want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1582	The majority today have to deal with the setting of a private proposal from the Right to remove the burden and regulate the prices of agricultural property, and we in the Labour Party believe that the proposers propose a far too easily dealing with an important matter. With a pen stroke, the Right will remove both the price regulation and the burden of agricultural property. This is not the working mode of the Labour Party. As the majority set out in the resolution, legal obligations are a central instrument of rural and agricultural policy. The working party will be actively involved in bringing agricultural leaders into a challenging future. But to disentangle such an essential element that the obligation is, without seeing things in context, doesn't want the Labour Party to be on. The proposal to the Right is probably more concerned with the takeovers of property under obligation and their ability to have ownership as a recreational home or sale on the open market than with the Building Norway. The fact that a person wants to have light in the houses has to be set up against the fact that today's market can give large sums of money at the hall, where it's up to date. In many situations where the obligation is not practiced, one sees what happens. The development of holiday homes has stuck in new areas. Cabins are no longer just in the mountains or by the spring. No, cabins are going to be everywhere, and people want bigger and bigger plots, something depreciated can do. But are they biting it to living settlements? Both the government and the plurality in this room want to exploit the gardening in the context of nutrition and housing, so that we can still have living settlements. In connection with St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000, which was the last time the Storting had a holistic approach to agricultural policy, the issue of ownership and the operation of agricultural property was also discussed. The size then gave rise to a desire to keep up the main features of the conjugation pattern. The last concession law was under consideration, under the Bondevik II regime, in 2004, i.e. with active participation from the Right. At that time, one thought that a release of the price regulation on agricultural property would help fewer professionals to see themselves able to take over. The ignition will often not return the investments. The result will, of course, be less use in operation. Today, there are considerable differences in the practice of the legislation in the municipality of Norway, and studies show that the possibilities of exemption from the obligation to pay are dependent on where you live. It's unfortunate. But in my view, this is not a good enough reason to remove the burden. It is important that we have legislation that builds up under the agricultural policy objectives we have seen. From the government's side, work is now in progress to adapt the legislation to the government's policy. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food includes: to assess whether the rules on contingencies are sufficiently targeted. In this context, an assessment is made of how different tools in ownership policy can be used to strengthen and sustain the construction process. As we have pointed out in the remarks in the setting, the Labour Party will now await the thorough process that the Ministry is conducting, which will look at both the legal, practical and political assessments of the rules we now have. The working party therefore supports the inclusion of the proposal in the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1603	The representative proposal we are now considering gives the Storting the opportunity to discuss some fundamental issues about the Government's industrial policy. In this case, maybe the most important question is: does ownership mean anything to the red-green parties? Looking at the development of argumentation since living and working conditions became part of the concession law in 1974, the intention of an active and self-owning peasantry to use grounds such as housing and cultural landscapes has been disregarded. Thus, the interests of the individual are of less importance to the parties of government than to the interests of the big society and individual political parties. Together with all the other regulations underpinning the red-green agricultural policy and rural policy, we want a politically guided settlement in the country, not a settlement governed by the inhabitants. The population has become a gambler in a political game where coercive regulation is used to give citizens political visions, which the same politicians do not have the power to achieve using other policy incentives. The fact that these are methods used in 2007 is disappointing. It does not improve when it is known that over the last fifteen years, the number of Norwegian farms has halved. In other words, government parties will continue to pursue policies that do not work and that may conflict with international legislation that Norway is obliged to follow. It's at the limit of the naïve when the red-greens think that under such a regime you're going to get new residents to the districts. People don't move to the districts just because some political parties want it, and at least not if moving there makes it almost impossible to change their mind. It may appear that local politicians have a more ground-based approach to this challenge, as studies show that 9 out of 10 applicants are being exempted from living. But the obligation to live is just one of the elements that the red-greens look blind at. Price regulation on agricultural properties is one of the other. Why politicians and bureaucrats must determine the price of your own property, is incomprehensible to most. Thus, investments and work through generations are to be priced by those who have not done a single type of work on the property and who have no objective of protecting the rights and interests of the landowners. Government parties have an inherent belief that landowners themselves are not best placed to achieve the rational disposal of their own property. Unfortunately, the price adjustment that has so far been practised has led to the decay of many properties. We see an increasing decline in operating buildings as well as a decline in production areas. Many have simply given up and are no longer producing their own property. The Progress Party wants a drastic change in the policy of regulation, where the landowners themselves are to determine the ownership, operation and purpose of the property. Using justifications such as that agriculture has a special financing scheme only increases the impression that state agricultural aid is actually blood money. In all other sectors and forms of ownership, it is the private initiative and innovation capacity that is being developed. It is therefore disappointing that the red-greens do not attribute the same abilities and potential to basic owners in the agricultural industry. In addition, recent attacks on the agricultural industry have taken place. The ability of local authorities to impose property taxes, as well as the ability of the state to charge profit taxes on sales, are just a few of several measures used by red-green farmers to bind landowners to the farm. Landowners subject to today's concession law miss millions of dollars in potential revenues built up through the hard work of generations. At the same time, today's legal and regulatory structure means that industry will never be able to develop the efficiency potential that lies there. Together with the other regulations, the concession law is a major obstacle to the development of robust agriculture that can meet future challenges. The Progress Party wants an industry of flexibility and innovation, where landowners are respected as individuals and not used as political pieces. Finally, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1635	The representative Kåre Fostervold has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1638	Strong ownership is a prerequisite for growth and development. Right is a strong defender of private property. Lodging obligations and price regulation are strong interference with the ownership Right is committed to strengthening. Under the previous government, the legislation related to housing and price regulation of agricultural property was softened and improved. In 2003, properties below 100 measures in total, with a maximum of 20 measures of land grown, were made concessionally free. 25 000 properties thus became concession-free. Property of this size is difficult if not impossible to obtain an annual income from. On 16 June 2004, the current Minister of Agriculture Lars Sponheim also introduced a free amount of DKK 750 000 before price controls were applied to built-up agricultural properties, and the capitalisation rate for calculating the price of agricultural land was set at 4 pst. The individual farmer was given greater freedom of action and responsibility for the price of agricultural land and property. That's good. Type of dwelling reduces the value of property, and it may force an owner to sell against his will. Price adjustment on agricultural property results in the holder losing the difference between the regulated price and any higher market price. Such heavy interventions against individuals require strong societal justification, high levels of predictability, non-discrimination and legal certainty. None of these conditions are met in respect of housing and price regulation for agricultural property. The rationale for housing is that it is a central instrument of rural and agricultural policy, but there is no professional basis to claim that housing has a positive function in terms of ensuring a spread of housing or activity in agriculture. Research indicates that housing does not have a positive effect on the objectives it intends to pursue. On the other hand, the research documents experience from many individual cases and, in part, the local authorities' practice of legislation that this has major weaknesses and negative effects. Surveys carried out in 2002 at Norway’s agricultural high school, now UMB, show that municipal housing does not appear to have a positive impact on the population. On the other hand, the analyses show – and this is a paradox in relation to the statements made by the representative Eng – that the housing obligation leads to the proportion of all-year-old dwellings transferred to recreational dwellings increasing, the turnover of property falls, the level of investment and maintenance falling, and the risk of buying a dwelling increases. It seems paralysing to activity. The control of housing varies greatly from municipality to municipality, and much indicates that the legislation is being broken to a large extent. Time-limited or permanent exemptions are granted to a large extent. The nation writes on March 16, 2007 that only 9 pst. of those who applied for exemption from the obligation to live in agricultural properties in 2006 were rejected and the municipality in which the owner lives may be decisive for their refusal or yes. It is also worth noting that price regulation on agricultural property also has no proven positive effect on the settlement or development of agriculture. The only certainty is that the landowner loses financially when the price is regulated below market value. Lower values reduce the motivation for investments and maintenance on the farm. Regulations involving strong interventions and major negative consequences for individuals must have sound professional justification. I notice that the Government will carry out a review of how the housing regulations are enforced. I think that makes sense. In any case, it would be of greater interest to evaluate the regulation against the stated objective. Housing obligations and price regulation are serious interference with private ownership, and there is a lack of respect for the values that landowners may have built up through generations. The community loses when it comes to the judgment of the landowner over its own property. The best person who is fit to take care of, develop and create added value of his own property is the landowner himself – and it serves society. On behalf of the Right, I would like to raise the proposals that have been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1661	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1664	SV believes that housing is essential for maintaining residence and employment on agricultural properties throughout the country. For many years and for various reasons, there has been a significant decline in the number of agricultural holdings. There have been fewer active farmers, but fortunately we have almost the same area and animal numbers in production now as 20 years ago. We see that the agricultural property is driven and also occupied after self-employment ceases, because of a sensible law. I'm glad. As long as the houses on the farms are kept and can function as a good place to live, it is a strength that the law provides leadership for the houses, even on properties without independent operation, to be maintained and inhabited. And then I haven't mentioned travel and experience activities in one word. In small rural communities in particular, each and every one of them is important. People depend on each other. I, and SV, believe that it is important to strengthen, not weaken, the provision of care services, kindergartens, schools, communications, goods and service industries. But both public and private businesses need to have some critical mass in order to offer their services to everyone. When we also know that there are great opportunities to obtain a temporary or permanent exemption from the obligation of living where it is clearly unreasonable to impose the obligation to live, I think it is wise to allow the Government to implement the notified review of how the provisions of the housing obligation are enforced, before we start any work on changes in the law. As regards the price of agricultural properties, it is regulated. And I'm happy about that. I have to say that I am a little surprised that the Right, which is otherwise so good with calculators, has not been able to figure out that there has to be a correlation between the level of basic investment in a production apparatus and the expected revenues from the market on the products to be produced, in order to be wise to invest. Could it not be that this is exactly what the Right Party and the Advance Party have done – calculated and calculated and perhaps found out that it would be much more reasonable to pick up food from other countries with different cultivation conditions and other wages? Is it the case that they are now just going to continue to promote one proposal after another, which only aims at weakening Norwegian agriculture and opening up larger imports? Is this right hand side contribution to tackle e.g. the environmental challenges? Because if the proposal from the Right had been approved, the prices of agricultural property would have increased dramatically. The consequences would become an acceleration in the take-off of cultivated land for other purposes. It would be cabin construction, housing construction, shopping malls, golf courses and a lot more than agricultural operations. Economically, individual landowners might benefit from it, but socio-economically this would be a significant loss project. SV wants active agriculture throughout the country. We want agricultural land to be used for agricultural purposes and cultivated land to be used for food production. Everything else will be a bad solution for the country, a bad solution for the environment and a bad solution for the future. I believe that we also have a moral responsibility to ensure that agricultural land is used as much as possible to produce food. The world's population is growing. I also hope that the right-hand side has got with it. We have to grow food, because that's the food we live on. If there is any country in the world that has a population that has the economy to refrain from short-term economic thinking, and that has the economy to facilitate the long-term development of agriculture and independent food production, yes, it is Norway. Finally, I have to say that after the recording from the Right and the Advance Party, I have again been told that there is a light year between the agricultural policy on the right and the agricultural policy on the right. And it feels very good and right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1690	Obesity is an important means of sustaining bushiness, life, well-being and activity all around the country. I stress that the obligation to provide services should contribute to this. But it's not the only tool. Agricultural policy, which is implemented in these days, is another central measure designed to contribute to such a goal. Through income development in line with other occupational groups and by securing good welfare arrangements for farmers, etc. may contribute to the optimism and recruitment of the State in this important industry. The design of reforms and regulations is a third instrument. The much-discussed case of the impact of new sheep-fowl fires on rural agriculture and cultural landscapes is an example of this. So we need a positive remedy, and the obligation is to go in this direction: helped to keep up the bust, life, well-being and activity all around the country. Now I record that there are different views in the Committee on whether this is the case or not. The principle of resistance to regulation and interference in the right to free purchase and sale of property is probably the starting point of the proposal from the Right. Some farmers who want to get rid of the gardening and sell the agricultural property probably see that the obligation was abolished. Without any obligation to own more than 100 targets, a market opens up for agricultural property to become large leisure properties for capital-intensive investors. For the Christian People's Party, this is not a desirable development. Farm property that is propitious should be priced precisely on the basis of its propitiousness and should be in active operation. There is no doubt that the obligation actually works as a counter-price. Had it not been the case, there would not have been any political noise on these matters. The Christian People's Party agrees on the principle of compulsory agricultural property. We therefore do not support the proposal from the Right. At the same time, I would like to stress that we have not changed our position in relation to the changes that the Bondevik II government has made with the consequence that less property comes below the obligation limit. The bounds for the obligation of professional secrecy are today 100 targets. Of course, this limit is not cut into stone forever. It must be assessed by reference to the type of ownership it is important to have a price-absorbing effect through active operating requirements. Societal development and industrial development may make it possible to look at this from time to time. But a winding-up of the entire mandatory arrangement, or of the concession arrangement, for which the Progress Party makes itself the spokesperson, is not relevant for the Christian People's Party to go in for. The Christian People's Party believes that the intention of the paperwork is good. The unfortunate thing is that practices vary greatly from municipality to municipality. If the obligation arrangement is to have a future – and it should – it must be practiced fairly equally, and it must be practiced with whiteness and discretion. Here, the Minister of Agriculture has a challenge, so that the obligation can also contribute to the achievement of what was intended, simply to sustain the bust and create life, well-being and activity throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1707	A debate on housing and price regulation of agricultural properties is by no means a new debate. It will definitely show up again later, too, and that's good. As time changes, legal acts also need to be amended or, at least, assessed on an ongoing basis in line with developments in the law. The left considers, on a general basis, that there needs to be more diversity in agriculture. We believe that local authorities need to be given greater opportunities for local adjustment and to see agricultural policy in the context of other business. The complexity of the legislation and many of the laws of agriculture hinder the development of more flexible agriculture, enabling those who want to invest in the industry to do so. That is why the Left wants a full review of all legislation and regulations with a view to modernising them. The left has in the setting we're dealing with today, in some kind of intermediate position, or center position, we can call it. We do not support the proposal to abolish the requirement to house and regulate the prices of agricultural property at this time, but at the same time we warn that it is not appropriate for the Left to go in for further tightening of current legislation, as the Council of State has warned. Rather, we see a gradual embellishment and a flexible practice of legislation adapted to local circumstances and needs. Our reason for not supporting the proposal is primarily due to the fact that a number of decorations were made to the housing and price regulation legislation during the previous government, which we have still not fully seen the effects of. Property under 100 measures was made concession-free, provided that no more than 20 measures were cultivated. A free amount of NOK 750000 was introduced before price controls were applied to built-up agricultural properties and the capitalisation rate for calculating the price of agricultural land was set at 4 pst. Overall, this policy has given each farmer greater freedom of action and responsibility for the price to be paid for agricultural land and property. In most cases, these changes did not result in real price regulation but in the free movement of very many agricultural properties, not least many of the smallest or medium-sized properties, such as many demand today. Let me stress that the Left supports that the municipalities, as an important part of the implementation of local democracy, should continue to have the right to lay down municipal regulations on reduced concession limits, or housing obligations. However, the left considers that the decisions taken by the European Court of Justice over the last few years relating to housing obligations in Denmark and Austria show that the Norwegian housing obligation cannot be based on the fact that the housing obligation is personal, but on the fact that people live on the various properties, regardless of whether it is the same as operating and maintaining any agricultural land associated with the property. For the left, after all, all living is more important than living. In my opinion, this government is providing the wrong medicine – perhaps based on incorrect diagnosis – in order to increase housing in the districts. It may seem that the Government assumes that if there is a land with an associated operational building, the basis for continuing agricultural activity is laid. This is wrong. No one can be forced to live on a farm and operate a farm with enthusiasm, governed by rigid regulation and coercion. The agriculture of the future depends on the people who are allowed to live on the farm and their initiative. Therefore, it is so important to be open and flexible in order to find solutions that allow the active, creative and initiative-rich to settle and develop farm use in the light of the opportunities they see. This is not done through regulatory restrictions, by refusing to build hospitals, for example. on a farm where there is no livestock, that is to say, where the man or herring does not enter the poultry. These are old-fashioned agricultural and rural policies that lead to depopulation rather than population. Unfortunately, a letter from the department shows that the housing, creativity and the modern and forward-looking people that the policy of the previous government was allowed to escape, now not only is being stopped, but also reversed. This creates frustration both among practitioners and local politicians who are overrun by bureaucrats at county level with regulations and guidelines from the Ministry as a basis. What Norwegian agriculture needs are armpits and homesickness, not detailed regulation and overrides. Then the best people find themselves doing other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1727	I believe the representative Kongshaug and I have a somewhat different view of what is in the word «modern». Of course, I very much agree that it is important to facilitate that those who want to live in the countryside should do so. That is precisely why this debate on housing that we now have is important in order to make it possible for the creative, enthusiastic young people we need to develop. I am pleased that the majority of the Stortinget today concludes that neither housing nor price control should be lifted, as proposed by representatives of the Right in their proposal, and as proposed by the Progress Party in the vote. I believe that both housing and price control are instruments that are important to ensure the values that the majority of this House wants to maintain, both in the field of agricultural policy and in the context of district policy. So I see, when I hear the debate here today, that the right hand primarily sees the value of a property as something that is a consequence of the price in the market. I believe that there is a question that requires a somewhat more general approach to what is really the value of a property. I believe that it is not only the price that you can take out at a given time in a market. I also note, after hearing Mr. Gundersen's statements on the obligation of living here, that today's exposure is greatest for those on the way out of the industry. I believe that an engagement that is liquidation-oriented, like what the representative Gundersen is presenting today, focusing on those who are liquidating and on their way out, is a very demanding line of development in the countryside. What Norwegian farmers need is development-oriented thinking in relation to the many farms we have, and not a liquidation-oriented thinking in terms of concern about not being able to get a given price on a property while on the way out of the industry. I also note that the representative Foster Violence from the Progress Party in his speech makes a comment that we are talking about forcing people to move, about forced political settlement. It's as far away from what's the idea of living as it's possible to get there. The whole point is to attach prerequisites to taking over an agricultural property that makes it possible to develop on the farms it's about. In terms of price, I would like to draw some reasoning about it. There is no doubt that we need to ensure socially sound price developments, especially in the densely populated areas. In those areas, the level of prices without any regulation could reflect far different interests than agricultural ones. It is in these densely populated areas that we have a lot of the best soil, and how strong price developments will be a negative factor in the ability to maintain active agriculture in those areas. Then, too, price controls help to favour those who own an agricultural property and who have an interest in long-term and good resource management over those who have other interests in the property, such as: to use it as a purely monetary position. Then we have conducted an investigation into the practice of price control, and the study shows that in many areas a practice has been developed that is not desirable. It also shows that price controls are very different in different parts of the country. I believe that something has to be done about this. I now have different approaches to ensure that municipalities protect the interests of society through sound price development of agricultural property. I also perceive that there was concern about this in Stortinget here today. So some words about housing. The provision of housing is related to both agricultural and rural policies. It can't be seen in isolation. We have had a situation in the spring where we have discussed a lot of what is the new situation related to housing obligations as a result of the so-called Festersen judgment in Denmark, and what consequences it could have for both Danish and Norwegian rules. I would like to take the opportunity to inform Stortinget that the Danes have now had an amendment for consultation. The hearing period was one week, until 1 May. The proposal is to maintain housing obligations for all agricultural properties. For properties less than 30 hectares, the dwelling may be filled by others, and for properties with a better resource base than this, the dwelling is personalised. The aim is to adopt the proposal quickly and to enter into force from July this year. Following the investigations carried out on the legal aspects of the case, it is clear that, even after the Festersen case was decided, it is possible to provide for a residence requirement in Norway, contrary to what some in this Chamber have claimed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1744	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1747	The state councils have warned, through the media at least, of a tightening of the obligation to live since nine out of ten do not have to live. I would just like to refer to a notice in Telemarksavia on 21 April this year, where the Council of State is made aware of a decision taken in the Green Selection in the municipality of Vinje: «Vinje Municipality deals with the powers of the government: to get the issue of imposing a permanent obligation and to get the issue of a stronger legal secret to intervene when use is long-term empty [[for example, a «homefall» after five years]] The Council of State comment on the decision is that this is relatively tense. Therefore, I wonder whether the Council of State will take a positive step towards repatriation of empty farms, so that the state or the municipality can claim the property transferred if these have been empty over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1759	My answer to that is as the representative Fostervold just referred to, that I think it was an exciting proposal that came from the municipality of Vinje. It is a proposal that has not been considered in the Norwegian debate on housing. I think it's very gratifying that there's an engagement out in Norwegian townships in relation to what changes it's possible, imaginable, desirable to do in order to secure housing out in the countryside. I don't think there's any point in rejecting proposals that are coming, until they've been thoroughly evaluated to look at the consequences of them. To this is the question of housing and making people live and develop nutrition in the countryside too important. So those who have good input related to this, who have their daily effect in the countryside, who see what the challenges are, and possibly what the possibilities are, I want more than welcome to make representations in the debate and the process we now have of improving living conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1764	It seems to me that the Minister of Agriculture thinks that there are toy money being invested around the district of Norway. It's actually about most of the savings in capital and much of the life of many of the people involved. It could be nice if people who invest in small farms, and who run them their whole lives, could realize buying an apartment centrally when you get old and want a different life. I can give the superintendent an input: it's a local usage right next to where I live, which is one of the smallest operating actively. They have invested in a lot of alternative production, including: Farm sister. Now he wants to sell – he probably wanted to have a different life. They find a price that is relatively high in relation to what could be accepted. Does the Minister of Agriculture not see that when you go in there and regulate the price of that kind of investment, it is to scare people away from wanting to do the same? Risks are increased, and investment in agriculture is reduced. That's what you're struggling with today first and foremost.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1771	As I have commented and mentioned in this room relatively many times during the winter, my main point in this context is that one has to see the use of instruments in agriculture and agriculture in the context. Those who take over a farm and want to run a business, agriculture, are moving into a political regime where we have subsidy schemes over the state budget, we have import protection, and we have target prices in Norway that are politically determined. It will be a very special situation if, at the moment, one chooses to step out of a political regime, is suddenly to be able to participate in a free pricing and a desire to make use of market prices beyond what is possible in order to reap a return on the investment involved in taking over a farm. So I think it's a shortcoming to want to have – to the extent that one wants – a political regime linked to agricultural properties and then free yourself from the same regime as one comes out of the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1776	One of the problems with obligations is that people experience that practices vary greatly from municipality to municipality. The Minister of Agriculture has now announced a re-examination of the conscript destinations. Among other things, municipalities should be given greater responsibility for practice. My question will then be: will the Minister of Agriculture take a firm stand here to bring about this difficult but necessary balance between a uniform practice and a rich use of discretion and reason, so that then logic, and that what happens, becomes logical?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1783	Now I heard, and certainly also the representative Sørfonn, exactly the representative of Kongshaugs hails the variation between the municipalities in the design of agricultural policy based on the fact that the situation is different in the individual municipalities. I believe that there is a balance between these considerations. In Norway, we will have one national agricultural policy, and we will have the opportunity to exercise local discretion in national agricultural policy where that makes sense. The ability of municipalities to be involved in the issue of housing obligations makes sense on the one hand, because one has local knowledge of matters. At the same time, it is also important to look at this in the light of whether a concrete policy is put in place that is proportionate to the national objectives. That's exactly what we're now looking at in relation to the proposals we're making to Stortinget on improving living conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1790	The scheduled time for the morning meeting is soon to come. The President will propose that we finish the line change. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1793	In Norwegian agriculture, it has been a tradition that one has been brought up to live on agricultural properties, in view of the fact that new generations will be involved in the operation and after a time take over the operation. Now the Minister of Agriculture has reinforced this by sending a letter that: ‘Consents to enter the union dwelling should only be given where there is no doubt that the union dwelling is necessary for the operation of the property’. This applies even if the property is of a size which requires it to be treated under the concession law. Does the Council of State see the contrast here — on the one hand, that there is an agricultural property to be treated under the law of the concession of sale and, on the other hand, that one is not allowed to enter the union dwelling on the property? Does the Minister of Agriculture think that not being able to build housing on agricultural properties contributes to increased settlement in Building Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1805	As the representative of Kongshaug correctly referred to, the starting point and the tradition of Norway relating to the housing of the union have been, as it was said, to give new generations the opportunity to participate in the operation. That's also my intention. In this context, I have sent out a circular stating that the place of residence on farms in Norway is an opportunity to give the next generation of entrances to participate in the operation. Then we see that on many farms, the operation is of a scale that either does not provide the basis for more families in daily operations or has a level that makes the probability relatively small that the next generation will have any significant income from that operation. Then I think it makes sense that one has a restrictive policy on the setting up of new dwellings, a policy that is in practice only housing-oriented, and not operationally oriented, on the individual farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1813	I understand that the Minister of Agriculture will continue his misguided agricultural policy. The majority type in a comment in the setting: ‘The majority refers to the entry into the concession law in 1974 and the time when the primary objective was that ownership and use of agricultural property should be based as much as possible on a self-owned farmland that actively operates its properties. In recent years, especially after the amendment of the law in 2001, consideration for housing and cultural landscapes has been more prominent as a reason for living obligations.’ It might be interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks is the main purpose of the dwelling, whether it is for the owner to own the property, or whether it is for the property to be housed in such a way that there is light in the windows and the property is maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1823	The purpose of the dwelling obligation is to have activity in the countryside. It's getting nutrient development. It's to get people to live on the farms that have ambition: we're going to be feeding on that farm. What's wrong with the argument and rhetoric of the Party of Advancement and the Right here in the Chamber today, is that they give the impression that only one slips things loose, releases things freely, then we get the right people to take over the farms to feed. It's actually very often that the young people who really want to have a long-term development perspective for the individual farm are not the people who have the most capital, are not the people who have the opportunity to hold the equity needed to be attractive enough in an open bidding round. If we are to get the people who are actually going to contribute to the fact that there is activity in the countryside, to buy a farm, the earnings on the individual farm, on the use that is for sale, must be the basis of the property transfer and of the price. If not, those people will never end up where they should end up: on a farm with the possibility of feeding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-08.ana.ud1040e1832	The cord shift is over. The scheduled time for the morning meeting is late. New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18 and Stortinget will continue to deal with case No. Eight.
