ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e62	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that 3 replies be given to comments from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e71	Doctors have traditionally had a strong position in the Norwegian judicial system. The proposed amendments to the Law of the Court of Justice aim to preserve and further develop the principles of the layman, to ensure recruitment and to ensure that laymen are able to fulfil their functions. The Committee agrees with the Ministry that the law requires modernisation with regard to the selection of law-enforcement members and co-judgments, and that it makes sense to make a distinction so that appointment does not coincide with the ordinary constitution following municipal and county elections. Law on changes to the Court Act is based on the work of the Lekdom Committee. The Committee has noted that the Ministry has chosen on several points to maintain current practice rather than follow the recommendations of the Lekdom Committee. The bill continues the principle of a layman, so that in the future there will also be a selection of laymen in each municipality who will be able to participate in functions of the law as co- magistrates and law-enforcement officers in criminal matters, as well as judges and judges in civil matters. In the courts, co-judges participate in criminal and civil cases, and as benefactors. The Conciliation Boards shall consist of three members who carry out the job without the involvement of legal judges. Playwrights also serve as legal witnesses. The Committee supports the Ministry's proposal to continue today's method of appointment for laymen and laymen through the municipality. It will ensure close contact with citizens and good assessments of candidates’ suitability. The Committee also agrees to the postponement of the term of office, so that the time limit for the election to the selection of members of the team and co-judgments is set at 15 October of the year following the municipal election. The functional period is four years from the next New Year. This change will give municipalities better time to recruit and assemble a most representative sample of people for these tasks. The Committee considers that the law can be favourably simplified and supported by the repeal of the system of special selections under the Law of the Court of Justice. From 1 January 2006, the State assumed administrative responsibility for the settlement councils. Elections to the Conciliation Council shall be made at the same time as the election of other doctors. In addition, a number of state-owned judges shall be appointed. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the SV, agree that the county should make the election. A minority in the Committee, consisting of the Right and the Advance Party, propose that the municipality appoint judges. The principle of playfulness rests on the legitimacy of the system and the Committee agrees with the Ministry that diversity, with regard to age, gender, background and culture, must be respected. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the SV and the Right, support the Ministry's proposal to legislate on a rule that the selections should have a comprehensive composition. Another majority, the Workers' Party and SV, support the Ministry's proposal that municipalities be required to encourage the public to propose candidates. The minority, the Right Party and the Advance Party, believe that it must be up to each municipality to decide how proposals are made, and propose in the light of § 67 repealed. The trust in the educational system rests on the trust of the persons in the sample. A Joint Committee supports the Ministry’s proposal that personal suitability combined with adequate Norwegian skills be set as criteria for becoming a layman, and that a specific qualification requirement be laid down for members of the Conciliation Councils. The administration of the Court of Justice shall then carry out half-yearly audits of good repute, as an additional quality assurance. The Committee agrees that it is appropriate for experts to be appointed by the courts for each case. The Ministry has proposed a number of new age limits for laymen. The majority of the Committee, the Labour Party and the SV, support the Government's proposal for a new Section 70. The minority, the Right Party and the Advance Party, propose a lower age limit of 18 years, which is the age of authority, and that the upper age limit falls. It is the view of the minority that the requirement of personal fitness is sufficient to relieve persons who are not suitable for any age group. The minority believe it is immature senior policy to disqualify someone from the Lekdom Committee because of old age alone. An overall committee supports a 25-year age limit for members of the Conciliation Council. The proposal also provides an overview of occupational groups excluded from the selection to the Toy Committees in order to ensure that the courts are independent. The Committee has no comments to that effect. Thousands of laymen contribute to ensuring the legitimacy of the system, and many are now responding to the fact that the remuneration is relatively modest. This is the background to the fact that the minority in the Committee, the Right and the Progressive Party are promoting proposals in which the Government is asked to consider increasing the remuneration in the context of the 2008 budget. The Committee has been made aware of an incurrency since its release. That is to say, Paragraphs 66(a) and 86(a) shall be included in the listing of the provisions of the Law of the Court of Justice to be repealed. On behalf of the Committee, I must promote that proposal now that the two paragraphs in question are actually repealed. Furthermore, the Committee has no comments on the proposed amendments to the Law of the Court of Justice. I then also deal with these proposals on behalf of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e109	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e112	Leakers have always had a central place in the Norwegian judicial system and are important to ensure democratic control of justice. The Courts are one of the most important bodies for resolving conflicts in society and are required to meet the individual's requirements for a safe and impartial procedure. The Courts therefore rely on trust, not only in the case of professional actors in the courts, but also in the case of laymen, experts, individuals and businesses that are being tried in the courts and in the general population. The background to the proposals under consideration today is that the current rules for the selection and withdrawal of laypeople make this a very inconspicuous procedure and that several of the provisions are substantively obsolete. The most important thing, however, is that the new proposals make the selection of team members and co-judges more representative. SV and the other government parties are concerned that we need laypeople from all parts of the population, and are satisfied that the new rules provide for a more versatile composition of laymen in terms of age, background and culture. The Leakdom scheme involves a division of formal influence, which, according to democratic ideals, should be widely fanned. Leakers can in many cases act as a link between different population groups on the one hand and the courts and other public authorities on the other. SV believes that it is important for legal certainty and equality policy to continue the system of selecting a sample for each sex, in order to ensure gender balance. Municipalities shall continue to elect members for the selection of jury members and co-judges. This ensures that the appointment is made by those who are sufficiently close to the population to carry out the necessary assessments of suitability. SV also believes that it is right to move the term of office of the laymen in relation to the local government elections, so that it is clear that there should be no party political preference to govern the choice of the laymen and the laymen. SV and the other government parties consider it appropriate to impose an obligation on municipalities to encourage the public to propose candidates in order to ensure the versatility and diversity of the samples. In addition to being representative of the population as a whole, it is also of great importance to choose people with good personal prerequisites for the task. Judging other people in court is and shall be a responsible act. The proposal envisages that those chosen as laypersons should have adequate Norwegian knowledge and otherwise be personally suitable for the task. Of course, it is important that those who are going to take part in judging a case actually perceive what is being done in the courtroom. We also believe it is right that the members of the Conciliation Board stand in a special position, taking into account that they have to hold mediation meetings and decisions through a relatively large number of dossiers, and that it is therefore natural that the choice of Norwegians should be governed, both in writing and orally. The SV and the other government parties believe that an upper age limit should be introduced for team members, general co-judges and members of the Conciliation Board of 70 at the start of the term, so that the upper age limit is 74 years. The reason for this is that we believe that many people will be able to carry out this type of work even at retirement age, and that continued choice up to 70 years of age and service time up to four years of age would allow this to happen. However, the alternative to a collective upper age will be an individual assessment of the individual’s suitability based on age changes, which, in our view, could be seen as far more stigmatizing for the individual who is no longer considered suitable than a general age limit. The absence of an upper age limit for expert co-judges and referees can be perceived as discriminatory. However, the significant difference here is that since experts are not appointed for a period of time, but explicitly for each case, one will be able to assess the individual’s suitability on an ongoing basis. For this reason, the need for an upper age limit will not be the same as for team members, general co-judges and Conciliation Council members.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e133	The Lekmann principle is one of the pillars of the Norwegian legal system and was introduced in its time to create a counterweight to the field of civil servants. Although more than 100 years have passed since this principle was introduced, the principle of a layman is strong in the Norwegian tradition and is perhaps more important today than ever. We live at a time when terrorist threats and criminal policy challenges such as organised crime lead to police and prosecution authorities having access to methods that are challenging in terms of transparency and transparency and are therefore subject to judicial control. That is why the Institute of Laying Persons is important in order to maintain confidence in the police, prosecution authorities and the judiciary, and that is why we need to consider at all times how best to ensure and be willing to make the necessary changes, so that this principle remains strong in the Norwegian legal tradition, to which Odelstinget is invited today. The representative Saxi has well explained the majority's position, but I would like to underline some points. The Courts shall be the representatives of the people in the judiciary. However, we have seen a development in which there has not been a good enough diversity among the children. It has, among other things, there have been too few representatives from the immigrant population among the co-judgments, and there has also been a biased age distribution. I am therefore pleased that the Storting will legislate a rule that the samples should have a comprehensive composition, so that they best represent all parts of the population. I myself have experience as a local politician and therefore know the demanding process of selecting people for the co-judgment, and that it is often easily solved by choosing people you know. This, of course, does not ensure a good enough representation, and therefore it is a right step both to legislate that municipalities have a duty to provide for diversity and to change the timing of the appointment of fellow judges. Experience also shows that it is right to impose an obligation on municipalities to encourage the public to propose candidates. I record that the opposition, although expressing their desire for diversity, will not legislate for the Progress Party, while the Right will not impose an obligation on the municipalities to encourage the public to propose candidates. Loans that are not followed up by measures rarely have any effect. I am therefore pleased that the majority is making sure that there are now legislative changes that ensure that we get the diversity of fellow judges that is a prerequisite for the principle of representativeness. It is important that those chosen to be co-judges are personally suitable for that. This is the new rule as to who is to be chosen, as well as the requirement for good Norwegian knowledge. The co-judgments manage a high level of responsibility both in relation to high-quality decisions, in relation to democratic control of the judiciary, in relation to the public and the transparency of the courts, and in relation to people’s confidence in the courts. Therefore, I would like to stress that municipalities should continue to have a great responsibility for controlling their conduct, in addition to the Court of Justice controls. We also support the tightening of the standard of good practice. The Workers' Party supports the Government's view of both the upper and lower age limits. With the new arrangement, team members, general co-judges and Conciliation Council members will be able to function until they are 74 years old. In this way, we ensure that many people who are fit to carry out this type of work will be able to do so even after retirement. At the same time, the introduction of an upper age limit will prevent individual assessment of the suitability of each individual, based on age changes. This is how we ensure that we get a balanced and representative composition of playwrights.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e156	It is an important matter that we are dealing with today. Some of us have either been co-judges in one case, or we have been in a local government to find the important people who are going to be co-judges in our court. I am pleased that we have got this matter today, with such an important debate. Whatever we adopt today, it's important to get this information out to the municipalities. We, as big-time politicians, also have a task for our politicians in the local government as to how important it is to find the right people to reflect diversity, in terms of age, gender, background and culture. However, the Progress Party believes that neither our elected people nor the elected majority parties in the municipalities need any law enforcement to get this done. It must be up to each municipality to ensure that this is followed up, so that co-judges in court represent all parts of the population. In general, as I said, this is a good thing, but there are a few things that the minority have pointed out, especially with regard to the stately discretionary selections. Several municipalities and several courts have called for this task to be transferred to the municipalities. The Progress Party believes that it is not necessary to wait until we have had a regional debate here until we take this step. The municipalities can do that now. As a solution, municipalities can report these names to the courts, and they will then be drawn out in relation to the population of the individual municipalities. There has also been a lot of talk about age in this case. We also know that in connection with the senior rebellion that has been. For the Progress Party, it has been important that we have a cross-section of the population, and therefore we do not want to have a lower or an upper age limit. Therefore, the party of progress will not be able to increase the age limit from 18 to 21. Is an old enough to be in this room and to make laws, one must also be able to agree to pass a judgment in one case. And 18 years is the age of authority in this country. So to the upper age limit: A 70-year-old today is not the same as a 70-year-old was ten years ago. There may also be 50-year-olds who do a worse job than a 70-year-old. People are getting younger and younger, and therefore the Progress Party will not have an upper age limit. It is some of the developments, and I believe that it must be up to each local government group to identify those who are suitable. With regard to the financial side of this case, it is remarkable that a fellow judge today receives NOK 250 per person. day in compensation. This remuneration has not been increased since 1981, and I must say that it is strange that the majority does not see that it is now time for this important work to be valued, by giving an increase in remuneration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e171	The selection of team members and co-judges needs to be more representative. In order to ensure the trust and legitimacy of the justice system, it is necessary to recruit more people with a minority background to the educational selections. We must also work for increased minority representation among professionals and in other professional groups in the courts. I have registered with great pleasure that Norway has received its first case-law judge with a minority background, and I hope that if not for long, she will be followed by more. We in the Christian People's Party understand that the Government does not want members of the Boards of Education to be recruited randomly by drawing from the People's Register. It is important that we continue to have quality assurance procedures to ensure that the members of these committees are fit to participate in judicial activities. We also think it makes sense to shift the timing of elections to the doctoral committees, so that it becomes clearer that these are not political choices, but elections on citizens with different backgrounds and different political positions, and that they are confident that they will be able to carry out the task of toys in a good way. The Christian People's Party also believes it is appropriate to legislate that the educational selections should have a comprehensive composition, so that they best represent all parts of the population. But we believe that the government's proposal that municipalities should encourage the public to propose candidates for the election does not go far enough. In addition, in our view, municipalities should be required to invite different organisations, associations and teams to propose candidates that they consider appropriate as co-judgments. Such a system was used when appointing members to the Foreign Study, and it ensured a good representation of persons with a minority background among the members of the denominator. In addition, it ensured many well-suited members. Today, the Christian People's Party has made proposals to amend Section 67 of the Law of the Court of Justice in line with this, and we hope for broad support for the proposal. The Labour and Social Committee is currently examining a communication on senior policy. There the government proposes to investigate raising retirement age from 70 to 72 years. The proposal is supported by the Christian People's Party. We take seriously that the seniors have an ever better health and that they can and should therefore contribute to society longer than before. In the view of the Christian People's Party, the natural consequence of what is likely to be a future rise in retirement age is to raise the age limit in Section 70 of the Law of the Court of Justice. We believe that people should be able to be elected to members of the jury until they are 72 years old, and today we are promoting proposals in line with this. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Advance Party and the Right that the appointment of the county discretionary committees should be transferred to the municipalities and supports the proposal that the distribution of the sample members should be based on the population of the municipalities. We also support their proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox So I'm going to take up our own proposals, which are distributed in the hall. Moreover, we are joining the legislative amendments proposed by the government parties and hope that the changes adopted today will prove to be sufficient to ensure a wide variety of and representative body of play.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e194	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has drawn up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e197	The principle of children's playwrights is important. They've always had a central place in the Norwegian judicial system. This tradition wants the Center Party to continue. Changes in the laws, such as: Make selections of team members and judges more representative. In addition, there are more transparent rules for selection and extraction. The idea that one should be judged by equals is an important principle in our law. The selection of team members and co- magistrates should therefore represent a certain diversity of age, gender, professional background, culture and ethnic background. A statutory rule that selections should have a comprehensive composition, so that they best represent all parts of the population, is an important measure. Therefore, a change is now proposed by the local authorities, who are responsible for education, who are required to encourage them to propose candidates. In addition, the election period is postponed to avoid party political links, and it will not be up to the political parties to propose their own to these parties. The Conciliation Board is in a special position. There must be greater requirements in this respect, among others. to age. The minimum age should still apply here, since they are to carry out the work without cooperation with legal judges. In addition, it is an advantage to have some life experience in the role that this plays. There are still proposals to the Conciliation Board to choose from people who are ‘responsible’ – or trustworthy – in the public language. In addition, they must be solvents, as there are often disputes about the claims on the money they are owed here. This is the Center Party merged in. It is also proposed to have an upper age limit for horizontal members, general practitioners and Conciliation Council members of 70 years at the beginning of the electoral term. This will lead to an upper age limit of 74 years at the end of the electoral period. The center party thinks it's important to keep the resources that the older ones represent. Many will be well-appointed for the task even at retirement age. We have more and more healthy older people, as well as in other areas they are encouraged to be able to continue their careers. Now there's a wise boundary rise in relation to habits and in relation to what will disqualify from selection to be a layman. However, it is clear that the new system does not exempt municipalities from the control of vices in connection with the choice. Following the legislative proposal, team members and co- magistrates shall be drawn out electronically in each case, with a maximum limit up to the number of days of the year. Here, too, comprehensive and straightforward rules have been proposed, including valid absences. The central party is behind the government's proposed changes to the laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e218	There is a positive and necessary clean-up in the layman's institute that is being dealt with here today. I'm still going to use the chance to make an article about something that I haven't heard from anyone, namely the jury. It's kind of a strange phenomenon that the more professional lawyers gather, the more sceptical they become to the jury. At the same time, I would like to inform Stortinget that in September last year I was at an unusual special meeting, a meeting held under the direction of the Legal and Medical Faculty at the University of Oslo. The meeting was about experts in Norwegian courts. The media covered this primarily because there was someone there who had views on specific individual matters, but the seminar was basically about experts. Historical examples, both domestic and foreign, later showed that those with the greatest critical ability to experts were juries and not tradesmen. Bit by bit, this came out. And those who have wondered about the phenomenon, can only read Trygve Lange-Nielsen's long journey with himself, which led him to work to get the judge that he thought was crazy. He's just saying the same thing. I need to underline this, because there are some people who believe that when a left-hand man takes this up, it is to mutter over Johan Sverdrup for approx. 120 years back. No, it's simply because we live in a time when there are now specialists in so many different areas, that being generalized in the sense that you carry a tradition that is broader than your own trades tradition, in itself is a healthy trait. In fact, that's what actually makes us citizens choose people who gain trust both in big business and in government. I just want to mark with these words on behalf of the Left that we still believe this about the jury's place in the Norwegian legal system. It does not weaken the argument for other members of the legal system. I think it's important to say that. I think it is very important to say that, precisely because we are in a country where the legal field suffers from a lack of tradition for research about itself. A lot has happened to do something about it, but that tradition should lead to reflection. A jury that meets just because they're not supposed to be there with the experience that they've been there all along, and what can prevent all kinds of system blindness, is important. This does not stand in itself in this case, but I think it was very important to have it said. One may perceive it as a call to the Council of State in his work on the matter. So to the matter that exists. The left will follow the setting, with two exceptions. We will support the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party on age limits, and I will be in principle. It's been 15 years since I was stopped by some former retired county doctors, who looked seriously at me and said, "Dørum, it's age apartheid in Norway!" Then I feel that people over a certain age are almost described as the wave of old age. You have the feeling that there's going to be some kind of tsunami rolling across the country. It must be that a citizen is a citizen, and an individual is an individual, once the age of authority has occurred. So for me, it's quite natural to vote for the proposal that you can do the jobs that are mentioned when you're 18, and then the age limit up is like all other conditions in life, be characterized by fitness assessments. Then, as you know, a little bit independent of the age you have can have a little different fitness in different ways. Individuals are considered that way. Is there something I really react strongly to, among other things. Because I've been in politics for so long, it's this collective name of people who have passed 60+, and there's some of us. It's almost like when we're at that time point, we're promoted to children again, and when we're real adults, we get honeymoon discounts. So I'm taking an ideological settlement with this crooked way of approaching the older part of the population. You can't talk about anyone, including me, like a kind of tsunami coming rolling. So when you get that far, our wits get to be judged by skilled people. So to proposal No. 4th@item: inlistbox It's gonna be a heart attack. I have sighed that that proposal has not been there before in another situation, so I get to take out my laying and participate in the sigh by voting for something that is the closest a deposit representative can vote for without being irresponsible with money, namely asking someone to consider anything. I will also vote in favour of proposal No. 4, because I think that's a real point in that. But I would never have voted for it if there had been a proposal for allocation, because it would have been totally unprofessional. But the closest thing we in the Biggest are going to get a kind of sympathy resolution, I can't help but vote for it in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e238	It is an interesting discussion and an interesting case of law Odelstinget has been presented – in many aspects. I believe that the case rapporteur and other speakers have been concerned with very important elements in relation to how we should make the selection of laypeople in the most sensible way possible, ensuring the best possible decisions in the courts. But let it also be said from here that the Government and I believe it is certainly important that we still ensure a very strong feature of the playwrights, perhaps more than ever. The representative Dørum has addressed the question of expertise. I think he's absolutely right. I would also like to point out the need to create legitimacy and trust in – I kept saying – a range of decisions that are coming, where we are constantly giving the courts a greater role in taking important decisions on choices in life, whether criminal law or civil law, called judicial action, and in this way the treatment today of the revision of the rule of choice and withdrawal of playwrights is important. We've seen new eyes on questions about the assumptions that laypeople have to have, and on what principles they should be recruited. Local authorities and courts have more transparent rules to deal with, and it becomes clearer that the recruitment basis for laypeople is not limited to the party political environments. I think that's important. In order to maintain confidence in the independence and impartiality of the courts, more and more State professional groups are being excluded and stricter requirements are being imposed on the behaviour of the laity. I am pleased that the Judicial Committee has substantially joined the proposals contained in the proposal. In particular, I appreciate the Committee's support for the proposal that the selection of team members and co-judges should continue to be chosen by the municipalities through personal choice. I note that the members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right believe that the task of appointing members of the county councils should be transferred from the county councils to the municipalities. Such a solution was also assessed as far back as 1971/1972. At the time it was rejected, for example: because the appointment could be so spread that it was uncertain whether the selection as a whole would have a sufficiently comprehensive composition. These arguments are still relevant. Furthermore, the proposal by the members of the Progressive Party and the Right does not take into account the fact that there are more factors than the population that may be relevant to the ability of municipalities to appoint good candidates, such as population composition and employment patterns. Following the proposal for a new Section 67 of the Law of the Court of Justice, municipalities are required to ensure that the selection of team members and co-judgments has a comprehensive composition, so that the samples represent as much as possible all parts of the population. This provision is fully central to meeting the objective of increasing the representativeness of the selection of team members and co-judges. It has to do with the trust question. We see it, among other things. The importance of ensuring that those inside the criminal justice area in some way have such a representative background throughout the criminal justice area. It's all about everything from admission to the Police College to, let me say, who we're dealing with the criminal code. The Lekdom Committee suggested that the selection of the district court should be recruited on the basis of direct migration from the population register, and also discussed the possibility of legislating a specific distribution of the samples in terms of age and ethnic background. As you know, the Ministry has not continued any of this. However, if we are to achieve the objective of representative samples, the legal text should express that objective. Otherwise, it is difficult to see how the municipalities can perceive the goal. As far as I understand, there is no disagreement that the wording of Section 67 of the proposal is comprehensive for what we actually want to achieve. In order to ensure that the provision becomes more than a «paper provision», the proposal of Section 67 further states that municipalities should encourage the public to propose candidates for the election. However, there are still municipalities to choose members of the committees, so some limitation of their influence is not in this part of the proposal. The fact that municipalities should encourage the population to propose candidates also contributes to stressing another central point, that it is the personal characteristics and qualifications of the individual, not political affiliation, which should be central to the choice of the selection of the team members and co-judgments. Proposals for candidates must be further assessed in the municipalities. Older laymen — several of whom have been involved — add valuable experience and expertise to the courts. At the same time, it is a fact that some older people experience a gradual deterioration in vision, hearing or other qualities necessary to participate in judgmental activities. Such changes may be difficult to perceive. There's some background for us to think there's a need for an upper age limit, but I remember that there's the possibility of doing service until the age of 74.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e257	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e260	In a letter to the Department in 2004, the Judicial Association wrote about the importance of raising the remuneration to the co-judgments. The answer at the time was that you should see this in connection with the work of the Lekdom Committee and come back to it in this matter. As I see it, it hasn't been done. My question to the Council of State is: does not the Council of State not see that it is time to raise the compensation to the co-judgments when the last cancellation was made in 1981?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e267	I am aware that the level of remuneration for laymen has remained unchanged for many years. Many feel that it is too low. Firstly, there is a budgetary question, and there will be consequences to the extent to which it is raised, which many people have had, but when assessing the level of compensation for the children, I think it will also be taken into account that the workers who are now being hired for work as a layman can get the lost earnings covered. I took note of the question of the level of remuneration, but I have to be very careful today to say that it will find its clarification, if necessary, through the ordinary budgetary procedures. That's a question that we still have to consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e274	Driving in Norway does not have an upper age limit. You have an annual medical check-up, which I don't think anyone sees as offensive. It is simply a check to see if you are able to drive a car for the next year. I want to look into what I think is a little old-fashioned and negative approach to people over 70 years of age. So it's a reality that while we're going to have a selection of homeworkers with an age of 70 and down, we're actually going to have a larger age group in the population from 70 and up. I think it sends a very negative signal that you're going to start separating people, writing them off, even if they pass 70 years. Nordlys had just a front page on ‘crime for the elderly’, which showed that older people now actually also represent more in law enforcement statistics. I want the Council of State to justify why a Kåre Willoch cannot be a good lecturer in future justice in Norway as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e283	I feel that I could say a lot about this. The point is that after this arrangement you can serve as a judge until 74 years. It's actually a significant age. I fully agree with those who think it is important that we draw older people into many facets of society. This is a very important argument for being sluggish when it comes to regulation and restrictions in relation to the elderly. But when it comes to cases in the courts, we have a different reason, which must be general, and it is that we must ensure that all kinds of judges, whether older or younger, are competent at all times. That's why we have the minimum age limit, because there are some of these conditions, for example. impairment of vision, hearing and observation, which is not always so easy to detect, and at least not in a process of extracting laymen. There the government has come to realize that the age at which it has fallen is an intermediary to ensure a good framework that ensures the ability and good competence of the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e292	Training, i.e. the introduction to the job to be done by the children, has not been a major theme in the proposition. I've actually been talking to some laymen in connection with the project, and they would have liked some kind of introduction, some kind of preparation for the job they're going to do when they get into the courtroom. Will the Council of State consider whether, in the future, it will be possible to create some system for those who are being drawn out to actually get some kind of introduction, an introduction to the job to be done?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e299	This isn't in the proposition we're dealing with right now, but it's already doing work on how to meet the toys. The previous government initiated – as far as I recall – several very good actions. I know that several courts are working very seriously on how to meet the lessons that are going into the criminal cases and other kinds of cases. I think it's a discussion we're going to take forward as well, because it's becoming more and more demanding to be a layman, often it's also more difficult to understand the facts of the case, and not least it will create security in relation to the process that is. This applies both to information given in advance, in writing when called and at the time of the meeting. But, of course, it is also necessary to assess whether there are other measures that can be taken to improve court decisions in the best possible way. We're busy with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e306	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 434]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e324	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that three replies be given to comments from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative. The first speaker is Toril Ø. Hanssen, for the spokesman for Saka, Jan Arild Ellingsen, who currently has leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e335	This case contains some changes to the Consumer Purchases Act. The starting point was that a few years ago, Stortinget’s Justice Department asked that some questions be investigated. The Committee asked for a new provision on guarantees under the Consumer Purchases Act and for digital benefits to be covered by the Consumer Purchases Act. In addition, the case contains the relationship between the warranty provisions of some contract laws and the rules of the limitation law as well as the extended disclosure obligation for the marketing of credit. There are also some incubators in the law that are being corrected. The Committee agrees that there is a strong need for clear rules for purchases between professionals and consumers. The current consumer situation with an increasing market pressure, new sales channels, increased consumption and a number of technically-designed consumer goods is conducive to consumer protection. Guarantees granted to consumers must have legal substance. Today's legislation has led to a very large number of sellers and producers operating with more or less worthless guarantees. Guarantees are often given with less content than the rights already enjoyed by the consumer as a result of the Consumer Purchases Act and other laws. There is reason to believe that such guarantees are provided in order to mislead and to some extent conceal to the consumer the full set of rights already granted by law to the consumer. There are strong arguments for synchronising the rules on warranty periods and limitation periods. It appears that the Norwegian rules with different deadlines are an exception to the situation of such rules in other countries. The difference between the two deadlines is not just a theoretical issue. In a number of cases where consumers have complained within the 5-year period, they have lost the case because of their limitation. In the case of consumer rights for digital content, the Consumer Council, on account of the following week: ‘There is currently an established market for the purchase of digital content via download. And this market has a clear need for laws and regulations that protect consumers. It does not keep pushing these questions out in the future or across to the EU.’ If you buy a CD in the store and it is wrong, you are entitled to a new one under the Consumer Purchases Act. When purchasing the same music via download on the Internet, the Consumer Purchases Act does not provide protection. Content transmitted digitally is not significantly different from content supplied in other ways. Therefore, full consumer rights should also apply to digital content provided by means of transmission. Everything else is going to fall backwards into the future. I am also addressing the proposals that have been referred to in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e355	The representative of Toril Ø. Hanssen has drawn up the proposals she made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e358	It is good that the Government here comes with new measures to increase consumer protection by both new rules and by instigating and strengthening the current law. When the debt submitted for a new rule on guarantees, the government party believes that this would explain to the consumer and thus increase consumer protection. There are currently no guarantees that give the consumer more rights than he or she already has under the laws, i.e. guarantee contracts which reduce consumer protection are prohibited by law. The new proposal makes the seller free to grant certain rights to the consumer, such as: the price reduction, correction and return in case of defects that are not wrong according to the law. This gives the consumer greater rights than the statutory obligations of the seller. On the other hand, if the seller chooses to provide a general warranty without specifying the content, the consumer may consider it a defect according to the law in the event of a breach of the warranty. This will ensure that the seller clearly designs the warranty and prevent misunderstandings for the consumer. This new submission has been modified in relation to the hearing note. The proposal was disputed in the hearing. In Sweden there has also been a debate on guarantee rules, which indicates that they are not unilateral success. The majority agree with the Government that, as it now stands, it is targeted and balanced and ensures that the consumer can obtain a guarantee and thus corrects beyond the statutory provisions, in addition to that provided, it will justify the seller to design the guarantees in a clear manner. When it comes to the relationship between the limitation and the right to return, I would first say that the parenting itself is not immaterial. The user will always have a year to cancel giving birth to him or her. The seller is also given an explanation as to whether the guarantee claim is genuine, or whether it is an empty claim. The problem is usually that the consumer is not aware of the parental rules, and lack of knowledge of the code can cause the consumer to lose legitimate demands. Some consumers also believe that a claim is sufficient to interrupt the expiry date. It's not like that. Therefore, it is good that the government here proposes an informative rule on the limitation of the validity of the claims in some contract laws. We are grateful that we are expanding the information obligation on effective interest rates here, so that this should be disclosed in all the marketing of credit, and not, which is currently only provided if credit terms are disclosed. By now, consumers will be much easier able to compare different offers. Finally, I would like to refer to the No. 2007:2 Data Crime Bill. This is out of the question and will be followed up as part of the work on a new special part of criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e381	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough review of the substance of the matter. However, in our digital everyday life and the world there is something strange backwards about the setting we have for treatment here today. In fact, it is difficult to understand that neither the Ministry nor the government parties in the United Kingdom believe that the time has come to regulate digital services and purchasing methods that have been used for the most time by large groups of the population and where the youngest leaders are. Just the fact that the youngest age group is at the forefront should enable the Ministry to address this challenge and help to give young people the best possible consumer protection on their premises. A majority of the previous Judicial Committee asked in Innst. O. No 69 for 2001–2002 that digital purchases had to be covered by consumer purchasing laws, and demonstrated at the time that young people in particular were using digital purchases. There is nothing to suggest that young people are using less digital purchases now than then, on the contrary. What's also true is that they've gotten the growth with them to use the web almost to the fullest extent possible. This should further strengthen the arguments in order to establish legislation that protects both the younger and the slightly older consumers who use this mode of payment and this mode of purchase and who need good protection because they are often subject to very aggressive marketing. It didn't work that way. It may almost seem that the government parties and the government have been planning to go a little way into the future in terms of digital services. The government parties had the chance to contribute to the majority of the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party that regulate digital purchases and services, but did not avail themselves of that possibility. It's almost incomprehensible, and I'm tempted to ask when the government parties think the time is ripe to regulate digital services into consumer purchase law. Is it in two years' time, or is it in five years' time – what, if any, are the criteria to be met before this can be legally implemented? The legislative proposal takes the aim of cleaning up and clarifying the content of different deadlines in terms of limitation and guarantee, in order to avoid confusing consumers. Such simplification is important in order to enable consumers to best respect their rights. It is also a step forward when the requirements for the marketing of loans are reinforced by the introduction of a clear disclosure obligation to ensure that the borrower obtains the necessary insight into the loan product actually offered. I also refer to the minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e396	In this case, a unanimous Justice Department has stated in its position that the proposed legislative changes that we are dealing with here today are important to clarify consumers' rights. Consumers are currently subject to strong market pressure. We've got new sales channels, and our consumption is increasing. It is therefore of great importance that we have good consumer protection. The SV – and the Government – believe that the proposed changes mean stronger consumer protection, either by new rules or by the clarification of applicable rights. With regard to the proposal for new rules on guarantees, the parties to the Government believe that this would clarify for the consumer and thus provide better consumer protection. SV fully agrees with the Government in this proposal. Government parties will point out that consumer contract law generally provides for both warranty and limitation rules. We would also point out that several hearing bodies believe that a rule that claims subject to five years’ warranty are not to be allowed to lapse as long as the warranty period runs. We believe that it's not striking for what you want to achieve. We believe that it is important to have custody rules in addition to the warranty rules, because the limitation rules provide for an explanation as to whether the guarantee claim is only an empty claim. As you know, a guarantee period may be interrupted informally, while the limitation period may be interrupted by, for example: settlement complaint. If the claim is unfounded, the dispute will then only be able to obtain a final clearance on limitation. The reason for this is the desire to remedy the problem of the consumer being led to believe that the claim is sufficient to interrupt the limitation period. It has also been pointed out that the same problem in relation to the consumer's limitation period may apply to the cases where the period of protection is two years. This therefore means that any possible interconnection of the legislation in relation to the absolute five-year guarantee period will not be able to solve the problem. In other words, limitation will be for many types of claims for which a statutory period of five years does not apply. If a rule were to be given as proposed in the consultation note, the consumer would be at risk of being a bear service, because the consumer had to learn to distinguish between requirements relating to a limitation period and requirements which do not apply to such a period. We believe that this would be an unbridled system for the consumer, and could contribute to weakening consumer protection. We believe that the problem may consist in the fact that the consumer is not aware that, in addition to the complaint rules, there is a requirement for an interruption of the limitation period under the limitation law, and is therefore pleased that an information provision is now being proposed, so that the consumer's knowledge is strengthened. I also want to link some comments to digital performances. I would like to clarify that the purchase of physical goods via the web is covered by today's purchase laws. Also software stored as files in the computer's hard drive is covered by the applicable law. The proposal states that the transmission of files through the network should not be covered by the Consumer Purchases Act in this context. Today, the consumer may rely on unlawful contractual principles for such requirements. SV – and government parties – believe that consumer protection should also include digital benefits. However, since network services cross national borders, we believe that a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the law for the consumer should be to work internationally for common consumer rules. We believe that the inclusion of network services in the Consumer Purchases Act now may appear misleading to the consumer because the rights may appear arbitrary to the consumer depending on the country from which the product is sold. Finally, I would also like to highlight an important step by the Government to make it easier for borrowers to assess different loan and credit offers in relation to their own financial capacity. In the case of a requirement for clear information on effective interest rates, the borrower will know what it actually costs to raise a loan or trade on credit. The marketing of loans and credit, and in particular unsecured credit and consumption loans, has become more widespread.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e417	Let me start by thanking the case spokesperson for a good presentation of the matter we are dealing with here today. The centre party is similar to the parties represented in the committee, listing clear purchase rules for consumers. We share the goal of preparing the rights of consumers. We are therefore pleased with the strengthening of the Government now presents e.g. by strengthening and clarifying the guarantee legislation, extending the information obligation and clarifying the guarantee legislation. In other words, we support the comments of the other two government parties in the setting, which have been addressed here by representatives from the Labour Party and SV. The Central Party is behind the changes proposed by the Government in the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e431	On behalf of the Left, I should like to make a few comments on the comprehensive legislative proposal. The majority of the Committee considers that consumer protection should also cover digital benefits. It is not recommended to do anything about the rules now, but to work with this internationally. Here the view of the Left Right and the Advance Party shares that it is an advantage that Norway is in the forefront. I allow myself a little siding. It's e.g. so that good researchers in this country have developed the language that allows you to communicate through computers, Simula. It's e.g. also such that in this country GSM was invented as an industrial patent, although for many reasons we never managed to make it an industrially large product in Norway. In the case of digital services, there are many reasons why Norway should be in the forefront. What I have just mentioned is a backstop for those reasons, but the most important thing is that consumers are in the situation like this. The representative of Aspaker has described in an excellent manner. Therefore, the Left supports the proposals promoted by the Right and the Advance Party, which deal with digital performance in different paragraphs. We also agree with the two parties that it may be difficult to distinguish between downloading and streaming. We therefore support the proposal calling on the Government to assess border crossings in relation to the responsibility of the web-site editor and to lay down rules for this. This is a very central part of the bill. The intention is good. I think that the minority here fills the intention with concrete content. On two other points, the left will also follow the minority. It is important that guarantees given to consumers are provided with legal substance. The Right Party and the Advance Party promote a proposal for Section 18(a) which provides such legal content. Here the two parties support the Department's original proposals. The left agrees with the minority’s assessment at this point. We also support the minority in the desire to synchronise the different deadlines that are relevant to consumer issues, so that it is easier for customers to hang out with. This leads to a change in Section 30 new second paragraph. This means in clear language that the Left will vote for minority proposals on all points. So I just want to make a few comments about one of the last proposals promoted by the minority, that you look at the challenges associated with data crime. It is in the minority’s proposal that the government be asked to investigate and propose that it be made illegal to attack websites. Here we are in a comprehensive and complex area. I think it's important to highlight what's happened here. I am aware that we have had a data crisis selection in several rounds of work, that it is still at work, and that some questions are addressed in such a context. I am – a little spooky, since we've talked about special age limits in the past – amazed that the government is not more youthful, in the sense of modern, in its understanding of digital performances. I belong to a generation that has to learn this from people who almost playfully just splash around in it. But as a learner and a playful person, I have learned that you are learning completely regardless of your age. On that basis, I think it is positive that the minority has promoted amendments, especially in terms of digital benefits. I feel that the law is more in line with the time we live in, and also captures legal awareness in relation to new groups and new challenges. There's a lot of good in this law, but the left seems that the minority improves the law with its various amendments. We will vote in favour of them when we deal with the legal text later.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e450	In Ot.prp. No 23 amendments to the Consumer Purchases Act and some other laws are proposed. I am pleased that the Committee subscribes to the proposal for amendments to the Financial Contracts Act and the Credit Purchases Act, so that provision is made for the future disclosure of effective interest rates for all credit promotions, and not, as today, only if credit conditions are disclosed. An extended disclosure obligation could make it easier for the consumer to engage in different loan and credit offers and assess them in relation to his financial position. When we look at the scope of both marketing and offers, there is absolutely reason for that. I am also pleased that the Committee endorses the proposal for amendments to the Constitutional Law. In addition to strengthening consumer protection in the field of credit, the Government of the Proposition has submitted proposals for strengthening consumer protection in the proposal for a new provision on consumer purchase guarantees and information provisions on the limitation of certain contract laws. In Norway, we have consistently good consumer protection, not least in the light of the adoption of a new Consumer Purchases Act in 2002. The government's proposals in this proposition will further strengthen consumer protection. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the Government's proposal for a new guarantee clause in the Consumer Purchases Act. This is the law and the law that often confuses the consumer: what is the guarantee, what is the reason for the lack, and at all events to be able to distinguish from it. There is also a lot of sin in the market by using these concepts around each other. Sometimes you can almost believe that you use the terms to deprive consumers of the legal rights they actually have. Therefore, the Government believes that the provision we have now proposed will be discriminatory, so that guarantees for future design are clearly defined, that there is something more in the guarantee than what might already be in the law's requirements. The question of introducing a guarantee rule was highly controversial during the hearing. In my view, the government has succeeded in formulating a guarantee provision that balances the interests involved and provides good consumer protection. The majority of the Committee also supports the proposal to include in some contract laws an information provision on the limitation of the validity of the guarantee provisions. I'm glad. In my view, the need for a change in the law relates to the fact that the consumer may not know the rules on limitation. The proposed provisions strengthen the consumer’s information on the relationship between the rules on claims and the rules on limitation of limitation and, in my view, could prevent the consumer from losing his claims in future due to a lack of knowledge of the overall legislation. This is also not the easiest thing to understand when you start to address the question of warranty periods: absolute and relative — and then you stop against limitation periods. So it's going to be a little bit more for consumers to hang out with. The crucial point is that we ensure that limitation and warranty periods throughout the contract law are reasonably consistent. The limitation in itself is not unreasonable, because the consumer will always have one year to interrupt the limitation period. Furthermore, in order to clarify whether the consumer wishes to proceed with the claim, the rules on limitation are necessary. In terms of digital performance, I listen with interest to what is said about being modern or not modern. There are private considerations, and I listen with interest to other people's views on the extent to which they participate in this. This might be a basis for saying something about how ready and how prepared we are now to be able to adopt legal rules that actually work. Then it's a prerequisite for us to know this market. The government, as mentioned above, does not propose any legal regulation at this time. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee shares this view. As indicated in the proposal, the objective is to introduce consumer rules in the long term, but then after further development of the market. I see a danger in regulating a market that is relatively new and in clear development, both in terms of scale and technology. We could be left with legal provisions that are actually not suitable or practical to achieve what we actually want. Since downloading will often take place across borders, Norwegian legislation in this area could be of very small importance. It'll be of little value to be first, and the best boy in class, if not the other class. I would like to point out that in a Green Paper on consumer law, the European Commission has recently raised questions about digital performance regulation at EU level. We have good contacts, including: with the EU Justice Commissioner and has discussed issues such as: civil matters, and we will follow the work in the EU closely and do what we can to ensure that Norway too can play an active role in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e470	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 441]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e486	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State, and that no repetition be made. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e493	Luckily, nuclear accidents occur very rarely, thanks to the high priority given subsequently to the safety work of such nuclear installations. However, it is worrying that some plants have reached a very old age and have a technology that may be said to have expired. We can probably never guard against what's not going to happen anyway, that's the end of the accident. Then we know that the extent of even minor accidents can be dramatic – not to mention the great disaster in Chernobyl in 1986, which shocked an entire world. Today, we are still helpless witnesses to horrific aftermaths in the form of serious health damage to the population — among others. in the form of malformations in children and a cancer rate far from normal. This only confirms what we have known that radioactive pollution can have frightening consequences both for health and the environment. It is a fact that many people in the Chernobyl region have lost their livelihood and are treated as if they were lepers in the communities they have moved to. More than half a million hectares of contaminated soil have disappeared from agricultural production in Ukraine. Also in Norway, the accident had consequences because the reindeer on the Finnmark range acted as a magnet on the nuclear fallout, and the reindeer that had its pasturage there could not be used as human food for a long period of time. The Chernobyl accident taught us something about the damage potential of serious nuclear accidents. Similarly, the submarine accident involving ‘Cursk’ in the Norwegian Sea contributed to putting on the agenda the risk of nuclear pollution at sea and the consequences it could have of the pollution of the northern waters by a nuclear accident – and Norwegian fish by night. This knowledge and experience form part of the backbone of the present proposal on amendments to the Atomic Energy Act and on proposals for consent to the ratification of the Amending Protocols to the Paris Convention on Civil Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy and the Brussels Convention, which is an additional Convention. Furthermore, amendments to the Atomic Energy Act are proposed, mainly in the chapter on compensation and insurance. Nuclear power is a significant source of energy in many countries, and new large nuclear installations are being planned and built in several European countries, including one of our nearest neighbouring countries, Finland. Therefore, an overall committee considers that good replacement and insurance schemes are both important and necessary and recommends that Norway ratify the relevant conventions and addendum conventions. This means in concrete terms that the general limit of liability is increasing from 60 million. special drawing rights, SDR, to 700 million. the euro, which means an extended limitation period for liability for personal injury and loss of life, from 10 to 30 years. Liability for owners of nuclear installations in Norway is currently guaranteed by a State guarantee. The framework for this will now have to be increased to 700 million. euro. Increased limits of liability do not result in higher insurance premiums, except in the case of international transport services not covered by the State guarantee. However, it may be appropriate for Norway to contribute more funds than before in the case of possible nuclear accidents in other States of the Convention, as the amounts of additional State benefits are also increasing. The Committee notes with particular interest that the provisions of the Paris Convention on jurisdiction are amended in order to give Norway, as a coastal State, jurisdiction over nuclear accidents occurring in the Norwegian economic zone. The Committee considers this to be of particular importance to a country such as Norway, which has a significant part of its value creation related to marine industries and marine petroleum activities. The Committee also supports the Government’s proposal that Norway should make reservations to the revised Paris Convention, such as: Sweden, Finland and Germany have indicated that they will. The reality of this is that a principle of reciprocity is assessed in respect of amounts of compensation for countries not party to the Convention, with the exception of countries which do not have nuclear installations on their territory. The position of the Committee is unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e519	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 443]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e535	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e544	We nordics have – some say – a slightly naive tendency to believe very well about the public and the state in terms of the ways in which we are controlled and monitored. The attitude that monitoring is okay, since only those who have something to hide, who have something to be afraid of, work fine as long as you have reassuring control mechanisms, not least for storing surplus information. However, television surveillance may in addition be a false form of security, while at the same time being able to intervene in the protection of privacy in an improper manner. With the technology we have today, we should be happy that neither, for example. Hitler or Stasi had a similar opportunity, but the possibilities of violating the individual's desire to be at peace with others, of having control of personal data, and of avoiding a control society are no less so. The Committee considers that data protection considerations need to be balanced against, for example: the need to prevent crime. Creating a sense of security in vulnerable areas can also be an important consideration. The Data Protection Authority supervises and enforces the rules of the Data Protection Act on television surveillance. The Ministry is running a back-testing of the Data Protection Act and announces proposals for changes to the Act, including an assessment of any transfer of supervisory responsibilities. The majority of the Committee awaits this work until a case is brought before the Stortinget, and the proposal is therefore proposed by the majority of the Committee attached to the minutes. However, for the minority, I refer to our proposal, which is identical to the proposal by the Left-wing rapporteurs. We believe that the time is ripe to take a position on this issue already now, as it would not be for anyone to know that the Data Protection Authority per. currently does not have the capacity to monitor compliance of all monitoring with the legal requirements. In addition, we support the desire to include Norwegian municipalities in their efforts to achieve a greater focus on privacy issues. We believe that the Norwegian local government, in consultation with its citizens, is as well able to do this as some of us, and that there is a good reason to give them the opportunity to do so in order to strengthen their supervisory capacity. Today we received confirmation that the Government is setting up the Privacy Commission. That's good, and it came about after cross-political pressure, among other things. by the proposers and the right. In the meantime, we believe that the Storting should take some decisions that point forward. This is such a proposal for a decision. I take up the proposal from the minority and hope that more people will support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e561	The representative André Oktay Dahl has taken up the proposal he refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e564	The proposers wish to give the municipalities the opportunity to assume their supervisory responsibilities for television surveillance and to decide whether such monitoring should be compulsory. As the rapporteur pointed out, it is today the Data Protection Authority that supervises and enforces the rules of the Data Protection Act on television surveillance. The proposers justify the fact that there may be different opinions and opinions on the privacy implications of television surveillance and that this may vary from place to place. An overall committee indicates that television surveillance can intervene in the privacy of individuals in a number of ways. Therefore, privacy needs to be weighed against other considerations, such as: to protect society from crime. It is also important to measure whether television surveillance actually produces the desired effect in terms of reduced crime. The Committee points out that the Ministry of Justice is in the process of post-controlling the data protection law and that amendments to the law are also notified, inter alia. an assessment of any transfer of the Supervisory Board. This is why an overall committee says that ‘the Government’s proposals for changes to the Personal Information Act are awaited’. Then I think it is funny that despite the fact that a unanimous committee says that we should await the Government's proposal for changes to the Data Protection Act, however, the Right goes to the step of proposing that the supervisory responsibility be transferred to the municipalities. As the proposers also stress, television surveillance is a theme of many different opinions, a theme that raises many fundamental questions. That is exactly why it is important that we get a thorough assessment of the question also in this case. So we get that in connection with the post-control of the Personal Information Act, which the Government is in the process of doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e573	The next speaker is Odd Einar Dørum, then State Council Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e576	I get a little disrespectful at the end of the day: those who have power, always think it's funny that someone challenges power, it's an experience I've had all my life. They even think it's amazing. And those who are used to things being the way they are, even think it's a little amazing that someone thinks it shouldn't be used to. As far as privacy is concerned, it is an area that we love to determine for a long time. But I fully agree with those who have spoken before, that it is a happy day and a good day that the Government has put down the commission they have done. That's very good. And it's also true -- it's true -- that on behalf of me and others who have promoted this, it became a broad connection. It is also a nice thing to note. But that the government has started such a work, does not mean that it will be terminated quickly. It'll take time. The fact that the Government has an evaluation of the data protection law is very good. But we still have issues that are being thrown around us. We had e.g. a topic earlier today, where, in my view, an attendance of two government councils has been demonstrated by looking at a field as sensitive as health information, which goes on in the whole private sphere. Here, in my opinion, we have shown the ability, the will and the courage not to let what has been used to continue to go. The proposal that the Left has promoted, and which the Right addresses in the Committee, which I am pleased that they do, I am simply inspired by Georg Apenes. And why? Yes, can we say that the man does not have insight in the area? No, we can hardly say that. He had two motivations that convinced me, but it was in a second phase of my life and in a completely different political role. One motivation was: we don't get any increased awareness of aspects of privacy until we get a broader political awareness of what it should be or not be. When we act locally in such a way that we believe that people can make a lot of important decisions, we also need to be able to make decisions about where there should be a private sphere in relation to public space and where it should not be. It is an attempt to politicise and democratize the debate on privacy. The second reason that Apenes quite truthfully gave, as stated in the proposal, is that the Data Protection Authority has no chance whatsoever of overseeing or controlling what is happening either now or in the foreseeable future. A few years ago, I was in the role of the State Council of Storberget now. Then I learned how many cameras the Ministry of Justice didn't know. But I could look up in the evening post, and they told me how many cameras were in the lower part of the Karl Johan area. I have also learned that if you first have cameras that are effective, for example. On the part of the police, it is an advantage that people are linked to what can move out. It's a country near us that has now gone beyond the European record in cameras. It's Britain. The number of cameras is between four and five million. It's probably one of the most surveyed countries in our part of the world. So you can discuss: Has it turned on crime? It doesn't look like this. You get a lot of false security. You end up at the end of the question that's the classic: what do you really have to hide? Or, what are you doing now? That debate could be conducted directly in municipal bodies – I am absolutely convinced of that. There I know how free the tone can be when you first burn for something. The left is happy for everyone who makes sure that the path you are going on is not as narrow as it may look to you from time to time when you are alone about something. We're glad the Right took this up. And I would like to stress that I don't think it's a coincidence that the Right took it up. Because we're in a city where City Councillor Erling Lae has said something that delights my heart, namely that over a series of cameras, he prefers living policemen who walk. He prefers some living people who walk there. That's how it can be pointed out in local politics as well. He prefers to be in a city where that's what's the basic tone, instead of we're going to think that we're doing it in other ways. In the afternoon just before Pentecost we get to say it so in the left that we are happy for those who turned around in time. The other people who haven't, always have the chance to do it later, for example. because work is being done through the Data Protection Commission, which has been set up, and through the evaluation. If more votes for the proposal, the more pleasant it is, given that the compact majority will vote it down. But we who still have the sense of rebellion in us, will continue to fight in both this and other areas. For me, the sense of rebellion has increased by the number of years, and it is also so that the more insight I have had in power, the more thoughtful I have become of the use and responsibility of power by having it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e595	Before the President-in-Office of the Council of State Knut Storberget receives the floor, the rapporteur will have the floor to correct a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e598	That's the puzzlingness that the committee leader was having, that's that we're waiting for while we're proposing something. It has something to do with the service-set approach that this case rapporteur has had, while, as the Right-Representative, one has a subsidiary reality that consists of being in a minority in this Chamber and just having to deal with what is. The point in the matter is that this comment does not stand for the right, for the simple reason that we have made a separate proposal that we recommend adopted here today. So the committee leader can ignore the fact that the right is on it. We are not part of the majority who are awaiting an investigation, but of course we are on our proposal. Then I hope that the fuss in all the service settings has been brought out of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e607	It was a fix that the president perceives as closer to an article, but let go.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e610	I have a little sense of having a rebel in politics – I think we need that. But I don't think it's just that you're getting more rebellious the older and braver you get, it's probably also related to where you sit in politics, whether you're in position or in opposition – and then I'm talking from my own experience, not necessarily to someone else's. But that makes it colorful, and it also maybe makes us get good input, and this case needs all sorts of good input. I agree with the Justice Committee in its consideration of television surveillance and interference in the privacy of individuals. There is good reason to problem the overall scope of television surveillance and the impact on collective data protection. There is also reason to raise questions as to whether the use of television surveillance actually promotes the objective it is intended to pursue — including the safety, security and prevention of crime. You take it for granted in public that is the surveillance camera there, it's security. You can quickly burn on it. There are just such questions that I hope the newly appointed Data Protection Commission will find an opportunity to look at – settlement with some myths in relation to the position of privacy, settlement with some myths about the impact of some instruments and the effect of the measures we have on a good deal of surveillance around us. That's what's needed. The proposal made by Dørum, Sponheim and Skei Grande on the transfer of the responsibility for the supervision of television surveillance to municipalities which so wish is equivalent to a proposal sent by the Ministry of Justice at its hearing on 7 March 2005. In the consultation note, it was proposed that the municipalities which so desire should assume the supervisory responsibilities of the Data Protection Authority in this area today. It was also proposed that municipalities should be given the opportunity to decide that such monitoring should be compulsory and thus, through the concession rules, that certain areas should not be monitored by television. The background to the proposal sent at the hearing was the same as that underlying Document No. The 8th proposal. Among other things, stressed the importance of the local maritime administration and that it advocates that individual local maritime authorities should decide how to balance privacy considerations against other cross-cutting considerations, within the framework of the rules of the Data Protection Act. It was also pointed out that there may be efficiency reasons for the transfer of supervisory responsibilities. It was noted that the transfer of supervisory responsibilities to municipalities would allow for an intensification of control to the extent necessary and that increased control volume could contribute to ensuring compliance with the regulatory requirements for television surveillance. So that's the other consideration. It could be that, in fact, you from the municipal council, you also see that when you transfer power, you actually use it more, so you get problems with actually saying no to this, and that's what we're going to have. But I just have to admit that I have too much sense of the reasoning underlying Document No. The 8th proposal. The hearing has shown that a clear majority of the hearing bodies oppose the proposal. The opposition is, among other things, justified by the fact that there is no follow-up to the municipalities wishing to take over the task of supervision, that different practices between municipalities could be developed to the detriment of operators operating across the municipal borders, and that there would be a two-track system with some municipalities and the Data Protection Authority, respectively. The consideration of the local maritime administration is important. I think it is worth mentioning that the municipalities can already carry out a certain control of the scope of television surveillance in public places – by virtue of being a landowner, they can decide whether to set up a camera on the grounds of the municipalities. The Ministry of Justice is working on the back-testing of the Data Protection Act. In this respect, the Department sees inter alia: details of the rules on television surveillance laid down in the Data Protection Act. I think it is most appropriate to see the proposal on the transfer of supervisory responsibilities to municipalities that wish to do so, in the context of the issue of television surveillance in connection with this post-control. So the rebel factor is a little bit lower in me. I am pleased that the majority of the committee is in favour of awaiting the Government's proposal for changes to the Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e628	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e631	One becomes almost benign when one hears the Council of State reasoning freely from the pulpit, because it was a fair and proper record of what has happened, namely that this rebel as a poacher has actually stood for the proposal in a previous role in life as well. So I'm doing nothing but getting an initiative. I think it was a real and proper presentation of the proposal that was given, the motivation for it and the reason for it. I waited, of course, for the classic thing that you can't change anything in Norway without it coming along with money, but I don't think the Council of State felt that way. I just want to have the Council's reflection on what he started with, that's what's going on with a living person compared to having a camera, because I think that's what's the principle of the question we're facing, and the way he commented on it, gave me some optimism. So he can at least bring with him from my side that despite a certain age difference, it looks as if the rebel factor is still intact with the former Hedmark depositor, the current Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e638	I have to thank you for your trust. This is important to hear, and it is important for me to have a certain factor at least! With regard to the issue of television surveillance, I must say that the reference that has been made to debates, but which is often difficult to arrive at, that it creates false security, may be particularly important against making television surveillance a specific decision to justify action, that it is often derailed in relation to what is important to intervene in, for example. of uncertainty, and that once you have done it, you don't do everything else that we, both the questioner and the undersigned, seem to be very important. It is obvious that if we are to provide security both in cities and in smaller places, human presence and social control are some of the most important in terms of prevention. The repair we can do in retrospect is important, but it becomes subordinate, and the technical and technological monitoring that is taking place will also be subordinate to the human presence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e645	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 448]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e663	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State, and that no repetition be made. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e670	The proposers wish to remove the Blasphemi paragraph and justify the fact that it is a sleeping paragraph. The majority of the committee, consisting of the members of the Labour Party, Right and SV, do not want to decide on this issue now. During 2008, the Stortinget will be treated with proposals for the specific part of the penal code, which will include individual fines. We want to decide whether the Blasphemi paragraph is to be repealed, in this context. There are many important and fundamental considerations to be taken into account in the overall review of the criminal law. Soluble debates led by isolated incidents, such as the caricature dispute in the context of the Muhammed drawings in this case, are a fragmentary and unsatisfactory way of dealing with the specific part of the penal code. Then I'm afraid we're getting a bad and inefficient penal code. The majority will have an overall assessment of the offences to be punishable and the format of the penalties. For example, it will. be appropriate to the Blasphemi paragraph up against the paragraphs on freedom of expression. Although the Progress Party in this document No. The eight-proposal would seem to be a principle, and it's not the right thing to do either. In 2004, the Progress Party supported the continued maintenance of the Blasphemi paragraph. Two years later, the lot proposed that it be removed. In 2004, the party stated that the paragraph provided protection for believers from all religious backgrounds. Now the Progress Party believes that the paragraph can be seen as an obstacle to legitimate religious criticism, especially by religions other than Christianity. It is neither a particular principle nor a particularly reassuring approach to key issues that the Storting must address in the context of the review of the criminal law. I am therefore pleased that the majority ensures that we get a proper treatment of the specific part of criminal law, by not taking a decision on the issue of suspension today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e683	First of all, let me say that I distance myself from the chairman of the Committee, who says that the Progress Party is not in principle, because in 2004 we voted against a proposal. We made it very clear at the time that our principle position was that we wanted to remove the blasphemy paragraph. But at the strong request of the Christian People's Party and before a big election where it was about cooperation from our side with the then government parties, we fulfilled a desire not to do so, to show our goodwill towards the Christian People's Party – just as very regularly in the current situation government parties from time to time vote against proposals from the opposition to which they have previously been co-sponsored, because in cooperation one must give and take. At least the representatives of the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party know that in a number of things like this. was treated in Stortinget yesterday and earlier today. Our principle position has been the same, and it appeared the first time that I proposed to remove Section 142, the Blasphemi paragraph, which now has a design that would result in Arnulf Överland being convicted in the famous case from a long, long time ago. After he was acquitted, the paragraph was changed in order to get him convicted. So we made proposals 17 years ago to remove it. What is the art of that debate, 9 May 1989, is that Kjellbjørg Lunde of the Socialist Left Party said: «Actually, this paragraph should have been lifted a long time ago, for, as we know, it has been a "sleeping" paragraph for a long, long time. The SV will vote in favour of the proposal tabled by Carl I. Hagen, as a result of the fact that we believe this paragraph is unnecessary." So the accusation that the committee's head addressed to me, today, she must address the Socialist Left Party. Lars Velsand from the Senterpartiet said: ‘I will also vote in favour of the proposal made by Mr. Hagen.’» Garbage Stone Said: ‘I will vote in favour of Mr. Hagen’s proposal and shall provide a brief justification for it.’;» A person who has often meant anything other than me, namely Kåre Willoch, did not vote in favour of the proposal, but he said: ‘I am voting in favour of this conclusion, in the light of the understanding that it does not in any way prevent reasonably rapid treatment in the Government, so that the Odelsting can then take a position relatively soon.’ There was therefore a proposal to submit the proposal to the Government for its opinion and assessment, so that it would be dealt with in the ongoing work on the revision of the criminal law. The majority of people here today are exactly the same formal reasons for looking at it in the context of something to come in a year, as an overall majority officially did on 9 May 1989. It is proposed that it should be dealt with in real terms in 2009. Then it will be the 20th anniversary of the last majority saying that this is urgent and will soon be done. It's really to laugh at the fact that the bulk of those degrees want to ridicule themselves, when it comes to not being able to deal with principal questions where all the views and positions are well known. This question has now been updated, and as Lars Velsand well said in the debate at the time: «The previous speaker said that, in his view, the Lord could do well without legal protection.» The Lord has had to do this for many years, and there have been no limits to the ridicule of the Christian God. Now the question of whether Allah is willing to accept what the Christian God has had to undergo. It will now be possible for the Blasphemi paragraph to be used against those who have critical and negative views on the Koran’s provisions on Islamic religion. That is why it is time to remove this blasphemy paragraph, so that freedom of expression comes to the fore, and so that we can implement the principle, after the amendment of Basic Law § 100, that opinions should only be met with other opinions and not criminal reactions. I will take up the proposals of the Advance Party included on page 2 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e726	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e729	I guess some people here do make themselves tall and dark to figure out how principled they are, because the only principled party in this case is actually a Christian People's Party. The last time the Stortinget dealt with the Blasphemi paragraph, the Advance Party stated in its remarks here in Stortinget: ‘After 11 September 2001, several Muslim children, among other things, experienced increased bullying and hoarding. In addition, many suggest that antisemitism is emerging in Europe. Religious discrimination and religious justification must, in the opinion of these members, be seen as an increasing societal challenge. In such a reality, in the opinion of these members, the lifting of the ban on blasphemy would be unfortunate.» Now it's a comment on behalf of the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, but it was, after all, a description of reality in 2004 that I don't think has become particularly different. In addition, it was said that it was important to have an ‘ethical reference framework that has helped shape both social development and the societal debate’. When we got to the Labour Party, the Labour Party said you didn't need to ‘intensification of reactions and sanctions against alleged blasphemy, but a more comprehensive and publicised religious criticism’. For my part and the right part, I'm going to choose to be small and dark and await the treatment of the penal law, simply because, like all other parties, except the Christian People's Party, we haven't been completely principled in any context in terms of the blasphemy paragraph. It is only the Christian People's Party that has been. I think there is reason to give credit for the fact that the Christian People's Party has at least been very clear on the blasphemy paragraph in one case – there are probably several of them too. None of us have been. But we get the opportunity to show whether we're adhering to the principles we've had on different occasions when we're dealing with the penal code next year. I also think the committee leader deserves to be commended for dealing with this debate in a dignified and realistic way in relation to what this is actually about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e750	Freedom of expression is essential to prevent and detect abuse of authority and repression. We have reason to be proud that freedom of expression has a central place in the Constitution. Exchanges of views and debates have a liberal framework and good growth conditions in Norway. However, freedom of expression has some limits, but borders do not set a narrow framework for freedom of expression – on the contrary. One of the limits of freedom of expression is found in Section 142 of the penal code, the so-called blasphemic paragraph. This provision does not prevent religious debate or criticism. This provision has not been in active use in recent years, but nevertheless represents a chance of what is accepted in the public word change. So the progress party, which was a hot defender of the Blasphemi paragraph at the latest in the previous ageing period, now wants to repeal the provision. The lot's reasoning for this position can be said a lot. I notice that the representative Hagen said in his speech that he was voting against the abolition of purely strategic political reasons when it was last up to vote. The Blasphemi paragraph hits the one who in word or action publicly mocks or in an offensive or hurtful way shows contempt for the creeds of someone or religious doctrines or worship. The provision thus protects not only Christians but all believers. It is an ethical reference framework and has been involved in shaping both societal development and the societal debate for many years. The fact that it has not been used for many years does not in any way mean that it has been ineffective. Blasphemous actions and attitudes can be offensive to individuals, affecting attitudes and beliefs that, for religious people, form central parts of their basic outlook on life. That is why it is important for the Christian People's Party to maintain a ban on blasphemy. We acknowledge and take seriously that many religious groups that can be violated by blasphemy do not have the power to protest in the public domain. History has also shown that, unfortunately, minorities who are exposed to heat do not always have the opportunity to express their views and answers. The history of the Roman people is a serious example of this. I think it is a sad fact that such a large party as the Progress Party actually points out the need for criticism of the Muslim minority in our country as a main justification for the removal of the Blasphemi paragraph. I repeat: no one wants to ban religious criticism, nor does it prohibit the law. It was just supposed to be missing! But contempt and contempt for the faith of others, we in the Christian People's Party do not want to facilitate that. Since 11 September 2001, several Muslims have experienced increases. Other religious communities also tell of less tolerance for members’ beliefs and religiously dependent conduct. Blasphemy is a sign of acceptance for inequality and diversity and is an important tool in the fight against religious discrimination and religiously justified hatred. It is therefore unfortunate whether the paragraph should be deleted. I hope that Minister of Justice Storberget will take the objections of the Christian People's Party with him in the further work on proposals for a new special part of the penal code.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e776	The word ‘blasphemy’ comes from Greek and means to speak abusively or disparagingly about what – by some – is considered sacred. Such speech is so closely related to religion and is also mentioned in the Bible, including the Bible. in the book of Exodus, where it happened. 22 verse 28 says, "You shall not mock God, neither shall you curse a reproach on your people." All world religions have historically suffered severe punishments for blasphemy. Blasphemous Jews risked stoning, blasphemous Christians could end up on the stake, while the death penalty was – and in some places it is still so – what is expected of blasphemous Muslims. The proposers correctly point out that the blasphemic paragraph is so-called sleeping. The last person convicted of blasphemy here to land was Arnfred Olsen. In 1912 he wrote in the magazine Fritinkeren: “The “Christian” Gentiles are reminded of their Jesus, the Jewish religious maker, who at last kept them so thoroughly deluded.” The oil was not burned, but he got ten kroner in fine. He had hardly been accused or convicted of the appointed today. In other words, what people perceive as blasphemous has changed. Limits have been moved. Some of the reasons for this must be general secularisation. For many, religion – over time – has become less important, and fewer things, phenomena and actions are perceived as sacred. Thus, the social and social basis for blasphemy is reduced. Religion has become more personal, less public, while the life - vision neutral values have been highlighted. At times, life - vision neutral values may seem to be raised higher than other values. Sometimes, in the debate, there may be some sort of secular fundamentalism, which I personally think is similar to the hijab debate. It's an evolution that we see today. The Freedom of Speech Commission went in to remove the blasphemy paragraph from the penal code, and the proposers are asking for the arguments put forward today to follow this up. The Central Party also fully supports the attitude of the majority, and is in favour of this matter being debated in the context of the handling of new criminal law. All the same, I can still sketch what I perceive as the frames around such a discussion. Freedom of expression is a hard value and perhaps the very foundation of the administration of the people, a government that needs criticism, in the same way that we must have oxygen to live. In the same way, we now experience a renewed interest in, and dissemination of, religion – much based on migration from the region of the world where religion as a social phenomenon is stronger than in Norway, as developments have been in Norway since Olsen was condemned in 1912. If not, this updates a debate on blasphemy, a debate that we in the Central Party want to welcome, and which we think might be interesting. How are the boundaries going between the right to say their opinions and the respect for what many, and perhaps more and more, perceive as sacred? As I said, freedom of speech is a hard value, and I think it's going to be a lot more to limit it in some way. In this debate, however, it is not least that those who defend the criminality of blasphemy use freedom of expression and influence the debate. The neo-religious environment in Norway, the new voices, is so far poorly represented in this Chamber. That is why it is important that the debate be conducted widely, that many others, other than us here, take part and take the floor in that debate. I myself think there is something right about keeping a strong freedom of speech and defending him. At the same time, we know that there are limits to what one should say, that speech and writing today and some places are regulated – for example. non-parliamentary language usage. Maybe it's the way people behave that makes up the outer boundaries of freedom of expression in our society. Debate is a vital part of society building, but at the same time it is clear that we do not build society further by trampling on values and meanings that others hold high. The centre party looks forward to a broader debate on the Blasphemi paragraph when the time comes for the handling of new criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e798	I'm at the last two big shots chosen for Stortinget on a batch program that goes in to cancel the blast-femi paragraph. I am an active member of the Norwegian Church, and I have always believed in recent years that I do not need a legal provision to protect the faith that I have inside me. At the same time, I agree with what was said in the last post, that getting a debate with clear opinions on what is good, and what is not good, what is high, and what is not high, in itself is a good. I also believe that the right place to have such a debate is in relation to the directory on which the penal code is concerned, because it will measure values in a number of areas. It will be about how we respect life, it will be about how we respect sexual integrity, and it will be about how we perceive sacred relationships. I don't see it as that in Norway per. Today, given that you act with normal peoples — and as you know, it cannot be codified or adopted anywhere — there are limits to religious criticism. The critique of religion lives around us. I, as a member of the Norwegian Church, must for example. See that satirians on TV play with the baptismal fountain in a church. I'm not particularly excited about that. We also have many other examples. What I want to focus on when we have such a debate, a debate with the Minister of Justice, is that because religion in our country has not been and will never be part of just the private sphere, but will always be part of the public sphere, in the public sphere, it is all the more important that all violations of faith in two areas to which I come back are guarded. I'm going to be concrete. All attacks and waterizations of sacred buildings, whether they be called churches, temples, mosques or synagogues, society must strike hard and consistently. All the disorder of order inside the holy rooms, whether they have one name or another, society must strike down hard. At least, in order to use the reasoning of the representative Sande, it is to defend the core of something that is important and sacred to people, the places where this is practiced. In the large public space, the Left believes – who has elected me to the Stortinget and given me the confidence to stand here – we do not need that legal provision. But in these spaces, we need the consciousness that I choose to contribute to the debate to come. And I share Sande's view that in Norway we must never end up in a situation that is almost a form of secular fundamentalism. The characteristic of secular fundamentalism is that you can talk about everything in this world, except your faith. I dare say that we have two secular fundamentalist countries in Europe. One is Turkey. The second is called France. There's a little bit of different reasons for that, but let me stick to France. That's where religion has been pushed into the private room. I am pleased that in the state-church investigation we had, the Gjønnes Committee, and the debate afterwards, no one in Norway has argued this way. Everyone, whether they belong to the Norwegian Church, the Free Churches, the Muslim Council, the Mosaic Religious Society or the Human Ethics Association, has said that belief and vision of life are part of the public space, part of civil society, part of the debate we are taking with us. A debate on this, just to confirm that faith and religious values belong in public space, including the criticism of faith and values of faith, because it is actually also part of the debate in public space, I think we will get in connection with the special part of the new penal law that the Minister of Justice will come with, and which he has announced will come to the Grand Duchy during this period. In that context, both I and the Left with active involvement will go into the debate. But I chose today, including because I think the representative Sande had an unusually constructive approach to thinking ahead, to insert the angles that I now express about the sacred spaces and the sacred buildings. It's a clear sign that we have respect for something that belongs to the faith, the outlook of life and the beliefs, even though there are different people and different beliefs that we can talk about. I am very pleased that in the situations in which we have had such violations and abuses, Norwegian authorities have been consistent. When, for example, had attacked the synagogue in this city, the Minister of Justice was quick on the spot, acted actively and correctly, and in that way there is a tone set for Norwegian authorities that I think we should take with us as guidance when we are going to be able to live with each other in a dialogue. And a dialogue must also be critical. If not, there will be no dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e817	Yes, the representative Hagen may experience that we are making a real and good decision on this matter if not for so long – sail in the course of the years has passed. The reason why the years have gone by on this issue is that, taking into account all the reasons for taking a final decision, in the discussions we have had on both freedom of expression and the development of criminal law. But I would say that the 105-year-old special penal code we have – and the penal code in general – is ready for revision. We are ready to get to Stortinget with the special part of the penal code during 2008. When the proposers now propose the repeal of Section 142 of the penal code on blasphemy, it is in the middle of that work. The proposal is mainly justified by the fact that blasphemy is a sleeping paragraph – the last sentence was in 1912. I therefore agree with the description that it is a sleeping paragraph, in the sense that it is rarely used in the legal system, but that does not mean that it has no effect. It has also been shown that the Committee on Freedom of Speech proposed to repeal the provision and that a number of Western countries have now removed such provisions. The majority of the Judicial Committee is not in favour of the proposal to repeal the provisions of the regulation. The majority point to the fact that the issue of lifting the ban will be assessed in the context of the treatment of the new specific part of the penal code. There we have to decide what is to be punishable, and how severe the punishments we are going to have in relation to each criminal offence. It's an important review. The majority also emphasise the importance of an overall and comprehensive assessment of the offences to be punishable. I think it's more important now than ever. It is also important to look at the design of penalties in relation to the specific part of criminal law. I agree with the majority, who, on this basis, would like to come back to the question of the possible abolition of bladder disease regulation in connection with this work. My goal is to establish a modern and timely new penal code, which is effective and adapted to the time we live in. The work on the special part of the new penal code is therefore being carried out intensively in the department now. It is a great deal of work, and it is desirable to be able to carry out a broad and comprehensive assessment of all criminal offences. This means that, in a number of areas, the issue of criminalisation needs to be addressed. Should it and that act be punished? We have removed a number of points of assessment that I consider to be pre-emptive by at least saying something about now. The most important thing is the principle of damages. If a criminal offence is to be considered, it should in principle be such as to cause harm to other people. The second principle is the principle of subsidisation, i.e. that punishment is to be applied only against conduct which may harm persons other than the perpetrator and only if other penalties, such as: replacement or other, is not sufficient. Such a criminalisation assessment must also be carried out in relation to the penal code § 142 on blasphemy. I don't reveal any secret when I say that the blasphemy determination is not exactly in the core area for such a purpose. These assessments will also be made in the light of the Criminal Fellov Commission’s investigation, NOU 2002:4, the Commission’s opinion on freedom of expression, the hearing opinions on these investigations and the treatment of St.meld by the Storting. No 26 for 2003–2004 amending the Basic Law § 100, on freedom of expression. There are also a number of other criminal injunctions that can be called into question. Among other things, it is punishable not to continue bids, which are probably only relevant to subscribers in Asker and Bærum. It is also a criminal offence to make electoral promises that are misleading just before a choice is made, and at least questions can be asked about whether it is sufficiently enforced. The size will be submitted to the issue of the suspension or continuation of the bladder disease regulation either during the autumn of 2007 in relation to a partial proposition that I intend to promote, or at the latest during 2008 when the main proposition on the specific part of new criminal law is promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e832	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 449]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e840	Councillor Knut Storberget will convey a royal proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e848	The proposition will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Odelstingen goes to voting in case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e894	The President will first vote on proposal No. 7, from a unanimous judicial authority, which concerns § 66(a) and 86(a). The proposal reads as follows: ‘The laws of the Court of Justice 66a and 86a shall be repealed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e1007	The President will now vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 67 of the Law of the Court of Justice shall be repealed.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e1022	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 67 of the Law of the Court of Justice shall be replaced by the following:The selections of members of the legal system and of co-judgments shall have a comprehensive composition, so that they best represent all parts of the population. The municipality shall invite the public sector and invite different organisations, associations and teams to propose candidates to the elections.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e1046	The Christian People's Party has announced that they subsidiaryly support the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e1087	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Judgment 70, second paragraph, No. 1 shall be replaced by the following:1. be more than 18 years at the start of the electoral period.’;» The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e1106	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Judgment 70, second paragraph, No. 1 is replaced by the following: be more than 21 years old and less than 72 years old at the start of the electoral period;’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e1133	The Christian People's Party has announced that they subsidiaryly support the suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e1619	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e1629	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e1637	In the course of the debate, Mr Hanssen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right, put forward eight proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e1746	There is an alternative proposal, No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «Section 18(a) Guarantees shall be replaced by the following:If the seller undertakes, within a given period, to respond in whole or in part to the applicability or other characteristics of the item: [[guarantee]] The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal of the Progressive Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e1892	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e1902	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e2712	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e2722	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e2730	During the debate, the representative, André Oktay Dahl, put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law No. 14 April 2000 31 on the processing of personal data is amended as follows:New Paragraph 41(a) is replaced by the following:Section 41(a). [[personal data law]] Municipal supervisionA municipality shall itself supervise compliance with the provisions of the chapter here, if it has notified the Data Protection Authority thereof. In this case, the provisions of Chapter VIII shall apply mutatis mutandis. However, a periodic penalty payment under §47 is due to the municipality.The municipality may decide that television surveillance should be compulsory. In this case, the fourth and fifth paragraphs of Section 33 and the corresponding sections of Sections 34 and 35 apply. IIThe law shall enter into force immediately.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e2759	The left has notified that they support the proposal of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e2772	President! I voted wrong. I should have voted for the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e2779	There shall then be 65 votes in favour of the opinion of the Committee and 14 votes in favour of the proposal of the Right. The Committee's position is therefore favourable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e2787	During the debate, Mr Hagen presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the Law amending the General Civil Code shall be amended as follows:Section 142 shall be repealed.This Act shall enter into force immediately.’. [[punishment law]] Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on. The Committee had nominated Odelstingen to take the following decisions: Document No 8:25 [[blasphemic paragraph]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-25-lower.ana.ud1580e2839	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
