ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e35	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen is unanimously elected president of the Odelstinget meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e56	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that lines are not allowed after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign on to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e63	This is a matter for the department to authorise the levying of slot machines. This is a charge to be used for prevention of gambling problems. There is broad political consensus in the Committee that it would be right to impose such a charge, and there is also broad agreement on the purpose of the charge. It is therefore a joint committee which is in favour of adopting the proposal before us. In different contexts, with many approaches, we have received good evidence that prevention is important. We welcome the fact that we are now moving forward in this work and that the proposal presented is a good one. It is part of this picture that the organisations in the game area are also positive to such a scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e79	There is no doubt that automated operations have brought with them a major problem in terms of gambling dependence. The fates are many, as we have all seen in the media and heard through the hearing bodies on this matter. That's why there has been a great deal of agreement here on the Stortinget that there has to be some grip. Many measures have already been taken to address this problem, for example: banknote bans, support lines and many other things. Many of these measures have been partly effective, but unfortunately they do not last. According to statistics, more and more people are in danger of becoming addicted to gambling. To limit the negative impact of automatic gambling, automatic reform was adopted in 2003 by the Bondevik II government, which was about to put automated activities under a state monopoly. As you know, the automatic industry sued the State for believing that this regulation conflicted with the EEA Agreement. In Borgarting’s judgment of 26 August 2005, the State was informed that the automatic reform did not conflict with Norway’s obligations towards the EEA. However, in November 2005, the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, said that they would bring an infringement action against Norway because the monitoring body considers the automatic reform to be contrary to Norway’s obligations under the EEA Agreement. The Ministry expects a decision of the EFTA Court to come within six months. However, prior to this, the measures adopted by the Stortinget in 2003 cannot be implemented by the State and therefore there is still a need to strengthen measures aimed at gambling dependence associated with the vending machines available on the Norwegian market today. The bill for this type of machine comes into the picture. For this charge, we will be able to support research, information, prevention and treatment in relation to gambling addiction to an even greater extent than today, and that is something the whole committee supports. In addition, the majority of the Committee is pleased that the Government, irrespective of the EFTA judgment, proposes the repeal of Section 10 of the Lottery Act to take effect from 1 July of this year, which will lead to the removal of today’s vending machines. There is no doubt that in case it will put an effective stop to new game addicts, while at the same time it will make it much easier for addicts to stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e92	The Progress Party supports this proposal for a one-off tax on vending machines, as an instrument for reducing gambling dependence in Norway. We, like all other parties, obviously do not want to increase gambling dependence to an extent, and with the already implemented banknote ban as one measure and now a fee on each machine as another, we can already see a decrease in the turnover of the machines. This is good. These instruments were proposed by us as early as June 2003. At that time no one was willing to listen. So that's why the Progress Party is happy that this proposal is now coming from the Government. Nevertheless, it is important to clarify that we assume that this decision does not in any way impose bans on machines much earlier than the announcement. When it is stated in the government’s proposal that existing vending machines must be removed on 1 July 2007, it can actually be seen that other vending machines can be accommodated immediately afterwards, regardless of whether or not a judgment has been given in the EFTA Court. Our concern is primarily about all the voluntary teams and organisations that are likely to lose their income from 1 July 2007, when the automatic ban is actually put into effect. Should the majority, following this decision, impose a ban earlier than the bid, it could have disastrous consequences for Freedom Norway. So we're going to hope that's not the case. The Progress Party had still seen that no ban was imposed at all from 1 July 2007. We believe that the majority should at least wait until the EFTA Court has said its own, but it is only the Progress Party that wants to do so. The consequence of imposing a ban on vending machines from 1 July is that in reality, nothing other than clearing the grounds for Norwegian Typing in the next round. It's getting a little special when I hear the representative Gravrök talking about relieving the gambling addicts and getting rid of the gambling addiction right away by imposing a ban, while at the same time it seems quite acceptable that Norsk Typing is allowed to set up his machines. It hardly reduces gambling dependence. I'm not going to blow the life of a debate that we've long since left behind, it's no use to anyone. What is important now is to get rid of gambling addiction, and it might be tempting to ask the Council of State if he intends to take action for those who have a gambling problem, but who from 1 July can no longer play. If there is nothing for those who depend on the game, we can easily get Swedish states, including illegal gambling offers. There should have been a group that was ready to accept these people for the longest time. We know that heroinists get relatively sick if they don't have access to heroin, and the same mechanisms I think they'll use when addicts stop accessing machines. Dependence hardly stops because if the vending machines disappear. I hope that the Council of State has a plan for this, and not only let those people who are either addicted to gambling or in the risk group sail their own seas. Because it's okay to prevent, and it's okay to treat those who have already recognised that they have a problem. It is far worse when a large group no longer gets its needs satisfied – or gets its opium. But, as I said, of course, the Progress Party supports the proposal. And then we're going to wait for this whole matter to be settled in the EFTA Court.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e107	Christian People's Party is a member of the Family and Culture Committee in Lamentationet, and therefore, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to say that we support Ot.prp. No 7th@item: There are many human tragedys that result from one being game-dependent, and the consequences are huge. So the introduction of a sector fee will strengthen work relative to gambling addicts. We have previously debated automatic cases in this Chamber, among others. through Document No 8:91 for 2005-2006, as some Christian People's Party representatives put forward. I refer to the debate at that time and to our proposal then. In addition, I would like to make it clear that, in parallel with the continuation of the work on slot termination, the Department must work on finding alternative sources of funding for the voluntary sector. In the voluntary sector, they do a great job. They must have good framework conditions — yes, I dare say that as a society we are not doing without a voluntary sector. Finally, we found it a paradox that the government has not imposed the same restrictions on bingo machines as on other slot machines. Media lookups now show that there is a strong growth in the turnover of bingo vending machines, which do not have seat bans. This should have been a matter for the State Council for the longest time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e118	I am pleased that a joint committee supports the Government's proposal to introduce an automatic charge to finance action against gambling problems. Increased knowledge of what triggers gambling problems is important, as are instruments and forms of treatment that can reduce and eliminate the problems that have arisen. The new levy will mean that the funds we have earmarked for tackling gambling problems are doubled in 2007, from 12 million. NOK 24 million at the lower edge. kr. In the past, only funds have been allocated from Norwegian Typing’s surplus to this type of measure. Furthermore, it is an important signal that the part of the gambling market that has triggered most of the cases of gambling problems, namely today’s slot machines, must now also contribute to solving the problems through fees. It may seem funny to impose a levy on an establishment that is currently being closed in six months. But most in this room know that gambling problems related to slot machines and other types of gambling have existed for several years, and that it is now important that we get more money to prevent and deal with such problems. And it's true, as was said from the pulpit here, that the problems you have, the addiction you have, don't disappear even if the machines disappear – it can be channelled into other games, for example. online. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees to suspend the access of private operators to the provision of ATMs from 1 July this year. Therefore, the existing vending machines will be removed from this date, regardless of whether we can carry out the automatic reform or one. I had hoped for a clarification from the EFTA Court on the automatic reform before this debate, but the Court has not yet come to its conclusion, so we can only lubricate ourselves with patience until that day. In my view, the most important thing now is to take into account all the people who have problems because of today's pay machines, and get cleaned up in the automatic industry so that they get help with their problem. I know that questions have been asked about whether the adopted repeal of the Lottery Act Section 10 can be implemented as long as there is a temporary extension from Borgarting Lawyers' Rights that obliges us to postpone the implementation of the automatic reform. I'm not going to go into the legal points, but there's never been any dispute that the authorities can't allow gambling in general – it's the way in Norway that you have to have an actual permit to play gambling. The temporary addendum to the automatic procedure is about whether it is lawful to prohibit today’s private vending machines while imposing an exclusive right for Norwegian Typing to operate vending machines. Such an exclusive right will, of course, not be imposed until after a judgment of the EFTA Court has been given. From 1 July we can get a period without vending machines, and the argument against having a total ban has been that it can develop an illegal vending machine offer. Some also suggest that the game may be channelled into other harmful games. We are looking at measures to prevent Internet gambling from leading to increased gambling problems, and it is precisely because of this problem that we believe that we should have a limited automatic offer in controlled forms under Norwegian Typing's responsibility in the future. If we do not have the opportunity to implement this adopted automatic reform as a broad majority in the Storting has wanted, the Government will, of course, come back to the Storing with assessments of the matter and how we should deal with this game area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e139	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e155	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e163	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e199	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e209	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e262	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e272	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-11-lower.ana.ud1958e366	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
