ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e42	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State, and that up to three lines be given with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e49	The proposal under consideration today represents a reversal of the changes to the Foreign Affairs Act which entered into force in May 2005, under the Government of Bondevik II. The proposal in Ot.prp. No For 2006-2007, Paragraph 38(c) of the Foreign Affairs Act is in fact repealed, so that it will again be sufficient to convert valid decisions for the benefit of the foreigner that there is «strong human interest». Following the narrowdown in 2005, there is today a requirement for ‘particularly strong human interests’. As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, I am pleased that there is a broad majority, consisting of the governmental parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which support the legislative changes proposed in the proposal. The same batches have supported the changes in the rules notified by the Government in relation to the treatment of Document No. 8: 69 for 2005-2006, on measures for children who have long been in the reception of asylum. This proposal was examined about a year ago. Lowering the threshold for the conversion of final decisions was one of the measures notified at that time. In the proposition we are discussing today, the Government announces that changes will also be made to the regulation, by considering whether to grant a residence permit due to ‘strong human interests’, paying particular attention to children’s connection with the kingdom. The majority indicate in the setting that we are positive that such a change of regulation should take effect at the same time as the proposal to lower the threshold for the conversion of decisions. The same majority also supports the proposed change related to the form of treatment. The change implies that UNE is again empowered to convert to favor for the foreigner all types of valid decisions. Today, in order to be treated as a new application, some requests for the conversion of UNE’s decisions have to be submitted to the UDI. Lowering the threshold for conversion will make it easier for children with a final refusal to have the decision reversed if there is a strong link as a result of long periods of residence. This is a desired policy on the part of the majority, because we view children as a particularly vulnerable group in such matters. Now, as we lower the threshold, I'm going to make it clear that it's not because we want more requests for conversion. On the contrary, the majority stress in the comments that conversion shall be ‘an exceptional means of use in exceptional circumstances’. The majority here refers to ‘the request for a final rejection after the appeal procedure in the Foreign Office’. I agree with the minority that it is important to avoid undermining the asylum institution. However, I believe that this problem should be solved in ways other than by having a higher threshold for residence after conversion than is the case in the assessment of «strong human interests» in the ordinary treatment in the UDI and UNE. Speeding up the procedure and improving the efficiency of the work on returning applicants who have been finally refused is the way to go. I would also like to point out what the proposition says: ‘The high number of UNE requests for conversion today is largely due to the failure to comply with UNE final rejection decisions, despite satisfactory proceedings and despite the fact that there has been little or no change in the facts since the final decision was taken.’ I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e80	The Soria Moria Declaration promised that the threshold for requests for conversion should be lowered to allow for a return to residence when there was «strong human interest». In the matter we are now debating, we can once again say that the Government is keeping that promise. In the Bondevik II government it was the Ministry of Local Affairs and then municipal minister Erna Solberg who directed the foreign field. Because of her many restrictions on the field, she was later nicknamed "Jern-Erna". One of the restrictions under the previous government that received great attention was the raising of the threshold of UN conversion desires, from ‘strong human interests’ to ‘very strong human interests’. Many issues in the media in recent years have shown that precisely this tightening by Erna Solberg has led to people who might have been allowed to stay, yet have not received it. Many of these cases concern children who have developed a strong relationship with the country for a long time in Norway. The popular commitment to these matters has led to a broad and popular demand for a more humane refugee and immigration policy. Several demonstrations and demonstrations have been carried out. In the light of the strong criticism of ‘Jern-Erna’ regarding this tightening, I think many have been waiting for the decision we are about to take today. There have also been good feedback from people who have lived in uncertainty for a long time, that they now have the opportunity to get their case tried again. The consultation opinions also show that there is broad support for the proposal. Nevertheless, I think it is important to clarify that conversion should continue to be an exceptional means of use in exceptional cases. The change in rules we adopt today will include: be able to benefit those children who have received a final rejection of their application but who have developed a long-term relationship with the State. It is also important to clarify that this should be part of an overall assessment and, in order to avoid children being used by adults, it is also important to clarify that a parent’s potential lack of cooperation may be a component of the overall assessment. It's good to be able to sign out the Soria Moria statement on this topic. The government will pursue a comprehensive immigration and refugee policy anchored in Norway’s international commitments. This issue is just one of several that has now been developed to ensure a humane, solidarity and legal certainty of refugee and asylum policies. Important steps are being taken, and the changes also show a different course from the right-wing government of Bondevik II. In conclusion, I would like to say that it is gratifying that the Left and Christian People's Party support this grip, and that in that way they admit that what they were in during Bondevik II was a mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e99	It is not difficult to understand the motivation behind this issue that we are dealing with today, because it has its main background in populist news headlines in relation to the children's situation. While there is reason to have a great deal of understanding of all the good intentions here, the Progress Party fears that this kind of policy – which lowers the threshold to stay in Norway in the event of appeals – is in practice further liberalising Norwegian asylum policy. So you don't see the woods for trees. One thinks in micro and wants to solve what is perceived as a problem in individual cases, and with that one once again liberalizes the whole area of asylum. The main challenge for Norway today is that integration is not able to keep pace with immigration. We have growing challenges on the integration side in Norway, and there is no point in further opening up people's homes on the basis of asylum. I want to come back to some of the things that are being commented on here, not least by the representative Battle Violence Vedum, who says that you don't want any more conversion cases in UNE. But it becomes de facto that when you lower the threshold, you make it even more attractive to use the appeal system. One might say that one wants to solve this with faster procedures, but the truth is that with today's government, the procedure has increased, not decreased. We do not have the solutions to be found in this area. The Right Party and the Advance Party agree on a desire to keep the current rule and not further lower the threshold. The Progress Party also wants to make clear in this respect that we want a tightening of Norwegian asylum policy, not a lowering of the threshold for staying in Norway. We do that by promoting our own proposal, which I am referring to here. But I ask the question whether it is that the government and government parties don't see the forest for just trees, because you're so busy dealing with individual things that get big headlines in the media, and then you don't see the whole of Norwegian asylum policy. Of course, it becomes interesting when we come back to the consideration of the proposal for a new foreign law, and this should have actually been waiting for it to be dealt with, so that you could see this in its entirety and in a wider perspective, because as I understand it, the government will soon come with the new foreign law. But, as I said, it's hard to understand why here and now you have to make these decisions, all the time the reason is on individual matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e112	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e115	As others have pointed out, this case concerns whether there should be a higher threshold to appeal a case against UNE than what is the threshold in relation to the first reading. One might sometimes get the impression in the debate on this topic that this is about how high the threshold should be in relation to having a stay in Norway at first instance. So it doesn't. The persons concerned are persons who have undergone extensive treatment and evaluation at first instance, and who have thus been unable to stay in the kingdom through that process. We think it makes sense that one has a system that should then try one more time through the UN system, a slightly higher threshold should be taken into account than the one that was at the first assessment. The reason for this is, of course, to have a more efficient management of foreigners, which means that those who do not have a basis for staying in Norway travel faster, because it is best for the people involved and their children, and because it maintains a broad trust in Norwegian foreign policy. It was precisely the challenge faced by the Bondevik II government when it took over responsibility for a run-down foreign policy, where more and more people became trapped in a trap in Norwegian asylum recipients through a system that too much invited people to spend the long trip, a long journey that led to a hopeless situation for their parents, but not least for the children. We are afraid that with the changes being made today, the signal is being sent out, that the red-green government again sends out an invitation to people to go out on this long journey to try to get a stay in Norway – not least with a background in using their children to try to stay – without a reason. Therefore, we fear that the consequence of this law change is that more children stay longer in Norwegian asylum recipients and get a connection with Norway, while the starting point is that both they and their parents would have been much better had Norway and the rest of the world society been better able to help those from whom they are originally from. I am quite surprised that the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande in the argument in this case also chooses to push the children forward, because the consequence of this amendment can quickly be that more children remain in Norwegian asylum reception for a longer time – precisely because the appeal becomes easier and this is used as a justification. We know very well from experience – not least from the experience of the cleaning up of the foreign agency that Erna Solberg provides – that there are very small adjustments in this area that give clear signals to the world about the foreign policy pursued. We are now witnessing that the Government is conducting a winged foreign policy where the output is more than change and concrete policy sets the agenda. One day there's a game of tightening up, the other there's a game of liberalisation. Today we are witnessing liberalisation. Soon we will receive the Foreign Affairs Act for comprehensive treatment. There's still to see what the total image is, but probably it's going to crack in every direction, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e128	This is one thing with a certain story. That is why, as a co-rapporteur, I think it is right for me to take the floor and take part in the debate when we deal with the issue of long-term children in reception. This matter is primarily about two things. It's about turning on the tightening that Right with the Christian People's Party and the Left did in the previous round. It was then said that the threshold should be raised when processing requests for conversion, which is a violation of the administrative law by the usual decisions. This was meant as a measure to scare people who had been in the country for a long time, from bringing in requests for conversion. Now some experience shows that this has not happened, on the contrary, we have had some bureaucratic changes as a result, and have received more indisputable proceedings. However, this is not a matter of procedure, on which the representative of the Progress Party was completely groundless and incomprehensible. This concerns the time after the procedure has been completed. This is basically about when people who have been refused, and who should have been returned, once again apply for a conversion. These were all the three current government parties against the time when the change was made. I am very happy to see that the Christian People's Party and the Left are back where they belong – together with the SV and the other government parties – in refugee issues and in refugee policy. The second part of this is about children. Here I think there is a rather historyless and inconsistent argument put forward by the representative of the Progress Party as to why we should not pay particular attention to children. I also do not think the argument from Bent Höie from the Right is particularly reassuring. This is an argument that is more faithful to bureaucracy and regulation than to the best interests of the child. That's why I'm once again happy that the Christian People's Party and the Left are on, and I see that here it's actually the child's best that's going to apply. This is about the fact that as a nation, we primarily have a responsibility to respect the rights and concerns of children who have been here for a long time. How can we prevent parents who have been finally rejected from exploiting this to build a strong connection with the kingdom of their children? It's through one thing: the rapid deployment of families with children with final rejection. To get a quick treatment period in the office in the case of families with children, this government has been working with us since we started. Getting a quick broadcast is also something that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen and the Government have been busy getting to. But the point is that both of these issues are very much about what we do in the cases that we don't have the power to return people to their homeland. There may be things in which the situation in the home country changes, or the circumstances of the individual change. Then it's right that we should have the same threshold when processing for the first time as in the case of a renewed desire for conversion. It seems reasonable to everyone who has worked on this for a while. The second is that it is essential that we be able to see the rights of a child. In other child protection issues where we feel that care for the children is not being taken care of, we say that the concern for the children should first – while the Progress Party and the Right, which in this context are not as humane as the others who are sitting here in the Chamber, says: No, the concern for the children is less important than the regulated conditions of immigration policy. I see that here the hall divides, and I feel comfortable with that. In addition, this case shows that there is a difference between the previous government and our government. While the previous government was taking part in a simple decision to try to do something with the children who had been in reception for a long time – once – our government is more concerned about finding sustainable rules. We'll do that in this case. This matter had never been raised for the first time if it had not been for the involvement and organisation of the children who were in the reception of asylum at the Vestlandsheimen in Hordaland, and who founded the organisation See us Listen, who made contact with Prime Minister Bondevik directly at the time, and who thus managed to change Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e147	Former Deputy Mayor Jon Lilletun and signed a private bill last year on measures for children who have been in reception for a long time, Document No. 8:69 for 2005-2006. During the examination of this proposal, the Government said that it would start work on making regulatory changes in order to lower the threshold in order to obtain a residence permit upon request for a final decision. That's what we're doing today. The proposal to repeal Section 38(c) of the Foreign Affairs Act implies that there is again sufficient ‘strong human interest’ to convert valid decisions for the benefit of the foreigner. The consultation opinions show that there is broad support for the proposal. This proposal was submitted for consultation, together with proposals for a new provision in the Foreign Regulation on strengthening the emphasis on children’s ties with the Reich. The two proposals can be seen in context, because a lowering of the threshold for conversion could benefit children who have lived here for a long time and have a connection with the kingdom. In August last year, UDI and UNE were instructed to settle matters concerning children who have applied for asylum or residency on a different basis. The instructions also cover cases where a request for conversion is promoted. Now the announced change of regulation on the strengthening of the emphasis on children's ties with the kingdom is taking place over a long period of residence, soon to come into force. I am very pleased that these changes are in place, and that it is now being ensured that the changes in the rules will come into force as soon as possible before the new Foreign Affairs Act enters into force. It is important to put in place a better regulation for children. If, for whatever reason, the Norwegian authorities have spent a long time dealing with an asylum case, and this has resulted in a child living in Norway for a long time and having a strong connection with the Kingdom, this shall be taken into account in the adoption of the decision. I am pleased that we have received a stronger focus on children's rights. Children coming to Norway as asylum seekers, either alone or with adults, are a particularly vulnerable group. Living year after year in an unexplained situation affects children and young people strongly, and receiving asylum is not a good place to live, either for children or for parents, over time. We have to take the children into account. We have to take children seriously, because children are children regardless of color of skin, regardless of ethnic origin and whether mother or father may have done something they shouldn't have done. Children deserve to be treated with care by being a child, with their own rights. The consequence is that immigration policy considerations must be given less weight than the rights of the child. We are well pleased, along with the rest of the great majority who are voting for the amendment of the law today, with the fact that we are now meeting asylum-seekers. We get a permanent system that takes special care of children – it is very enjoyable – and many children who have been in the country for a long time and who have been waiting for a new assessment are given new treatment according to new legislation. It was said in the debate today by the representative Bent Höie that the amendment of the law will lead to a risk that children will stay longer in reception. It believes that the Christian People's Party is wrong, because with this we get a new policy that is about taking more account of children, which, of course, must be followed up by the fact that those who are refused receive a rapid dispatch from the country, so that we do not get back into the same situation that children remain in asylum reception for a long time. Finally: Now a few will see if those who have been sitting and waiting for a new assessment will be allowed to stay. Our call to the Council of State, when he is working on the regulations that are to be put in place, is that he places emphasis on a generous treatment of applications, and that one also allows changes to benefit those who were 17 years old, but who may now have reached the age of 18 pending the change in rules. It's politics that will take children seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e164	Decisions taken by non-residents often have major human consequences. A negative decision will often imply obligations for the foreigner to leave the empire. It is therefore not unusual that the foreign student receives requests for conversion. It is obvious that the general rule must be that conversion is an instrument to be used only in exceptional cases, but the management's ability to re-establish its own decisions is an important safety valve for failure to comply with wrong decisions. Occasionally, circumstances change after the decision has been taken, and it is important that the management body and also the non-resident authorities can review the case and re-approve the decision. The left cannot see that there are any particular reasons why decisions relating to non-residents must have a more stringent threshold in order to be able to be converted than other administrative decisions. We therefore support the Government's proposal that the administrative reform rules of the law be applied in foreign affairs. In particular, I would like to address a topic that concerns such transformation, and it is children. The government has stated several times that more emphasis should be placed on children in foreign affairs. This is something we in the Left appreciate – among other things. We support the Government's instruction to the UDI and UNE to call into question the treatment of cases of asylum or residence involving children. We expect this consideration to be followed up in proposals for new foreign law and regulations. However, a concern is that in practice children are not adequately taken into account. It is probably more than I think it is broken when we read in the paper that a family father who worked for a few months without a work permit is expelled from Norway with an entry ban for five years. Back there's a wife and a baby. I do not believe that the violation of the Foreign Affairs Act in itself is de minimis. It's not at all. It may well be that it was actually right to expel this man, but when he has children and establishes himself as a family father, there is a lot of evidence that there is such a strong human interest that the foreign authorities should reverse the decision. By addressing this matter, the Left wants to explain that it sometimes works a bit far from what the Government promises, until what actually happens in practice. The left fully supports the fact that the administrative law’s implementing rules and ordinary legal guarantees are also applicable to non-residents, but we hope that these principles will be followed up in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e175	I feel the need to link some comments to the question of how I feel about this matter, because the claim so far in the debate is that what the Government is now doing is, on a general basis, proposing that the threshold for humanitarian stay in Norway be lowered. Not least the representative Bent Höie was heavy on it in his post, and here I deeply disagree. I'm going to justify it by saying that what we're doing now has no significance for the practice under which cases are to be dealt with in UDI and UNE. So it's not generally – except for children, which I'm going to end up with – given a new regulation to UDI and UNE to regulate the discretion to stay on a humanitarian basis. That's what's being done there. Practices have been established for a long time both in the UDI and UNE in this way, and that practice is firm, so it has nothing to do with the threshold to get a yes to an application. But then there is something that everyone in particular agrees on, and it is that in addition there should be a UN system that goes on that if, after having been dealt with and finally refused, some new information comes in, one should have the opportunity to promote a desire for transformation. As far as I understand it, it is a broad majority for it in the Chamber. This could be e.g. health information, that you have an application for a humanitarian stay based on health grounds, and then you are denied because the health situation is not serious enough. Then something happens to the state of health after you have finally received a rejection in UNE, and then you promote a desire for transformation. The state of health at that time may be such that, according to normal practice, a person would have been allowed to stay on a humanitarian basis, but because the desire for conversion now requires ‘particularly strong human interests’, the desire for conversion is rejected, although practice would normally have indicated that he would have been allowed to stay on that basis. So it raises an extra threshold for the change request, which, in the government's opinion, does not mean that you lower the threshold for a stay, but where you say that the same threshold also applies to the change request. I think that's reasonable, and it's not to contribute to a general threshold in getting a stay in Norway. It's true, as many people say, that this case is related to what we're doing now with a prescription that children should be able to stay in Norway more easily, that we lower the threshold for children. That's right, and that's what the government stands for. I note that the Progress Party and the Right are against it. They have to be, but I'm very happy that there's a majority for what we're doing now. However, we do not say that all those who oppose return to their country of origin because they will work out further links with the country every month in Norway are allowed to stay. The new regulatory provision provides guidance for a discretionary overall assessment. I think it's the best way to balance such consideration towards other relevant considerations. If, on the one hand, you want to relax the criteria for staying in cases where children have developed a strong relationship with Norway over a long period of residence, while not wanting to create a system in which you reward parents who have not contributed to the return, you need such a discretionary provision. In order not to reward parents who train the case, any lack of cooperation between parents in allowing a return will be a factor in the assessment which may contradict the granting of an authorisation. However, judgement should be lowered in this way to the benefit of the child by cutting through and saying that at one time we will get to the point where the child’s best interests go ahead of the fact that parents do not cooperate, but not in such a way that parents can thus decide whether to stay in Norway or not. A judgement shall continue to be exercised in which the non-co-operation of parents shall be weighted, as was the case during the previous government, but the judgement shall now be adjusted for the benefit of the child. As I said, it's okay to disagree, but that's what we do, and we stand for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e189	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e192	Given the number of persons who anchor or request conversion in relation to UNE after final refusal of residence, it is quite obvious that lowering the threshold for conversion is lowering the threshold in relation to being allowed to stay in the kingdom. My question to the Council of State is related to his play-out in the Evening Post, where he says he wants to limit the possibility to make as many conversion requests as today, because it is problematic in relation to the significant amount of business that comes to the foreign agencies, and because this leads to the process taking too long. Now we see today that one goes in the opposite direction. When shall the Council of State follow up its action to limit the possibility of conversion?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e201	It can be a good technique to repeat a claim often, and thus try to make it true. However, it is an undeniable fact that what we are doing now does not lower the threshold for humanitarian stay in Norway. It's going to be the exact same threshold in these cases after this change as before this change. In this way, with the exception of children, we have not changed anything in relation to what the previous government stood for. Now, what we're saying is that the same threshold is also going to apply to conversion requests. I really think it is completely unreasonable to demand that when you promote a redevelopment desire – you are still in Norway, and your health status, for example, has worsened – there should be a much higher threshold to stay in Norway than in a normal case. I find that unreasonable, inexplicable, and therefore I am very pleased that Odelstingen supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e208	I note that the Council of State chooses to keep the debate going on the first theme. That is why I repeat my question: When will the Council of States follow up one of its many issues in this area that were linked to reducing the number of times a person can apply for a decision to be converted, in order to get more progress and reduce the number of cases by the foreign authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e213	There is nothing so wrong that it is not good for anything. That the right hand side gets two lines, can sometimes help you get black. What I experience as one of the biggest challenges of the discussion of the desire to change is whether it is that a person promotes a desire to make a change should have a suspensive effect – that is, that any expulsion decision is certainly not implemented because he has promoted a desire to make a change. The kind of practice that I think it is important to discuss is how postponing the implementation of decisions because one has promoted the desire to convert, helps that it takes a very long time to implement an expulsion decision taken in UNE, helps that this treatment, for some, may seem to take a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e220	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e225	It's interesting to hear the debate here. I'm not quite sure if the council itself knows what he's proposing, but he's trying to explain as best he can. It is not particularly in line with this, for example. The representative Heikki Holmås said here instead, but let go. I thought they represented the same government, and they commented on the same proposal. Nobody asks why a child is in Norway, it's just here. No one asks how the child came here, it's just here. No one asks if the parents come for any anchor child, as it's called. No question about the relationship with the country of origin is greater than the relationship with Norway. Here we have a story about a family who may have lived in a country for many, many generations — perhaps they have lived ten years in the country of origin and perhaps two years in Norway. Then it is rather arrogant of us to say that the link is stronger to Norway than it is to Norway, for example. the country of origin. It's arrogant, it's arrogant! Nobody asks if it's better to help the child where it actually comes from. No, of course, it is best in Norway. It's good here. This is not mercy. It is possible that it is in line with the Soria Moria declaration, but it is not mercy. This is fake care based on media playback. That's what this is. In fact, the most merciful policy is to reduce treatment time. So far, the government has just given promises, but not done anything about it. I am surprised when State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen says this has nothing to do with the threshold. He's terrified of the voters, because he knows there's a large majority out there among the voters not to do this. Of course, this has something to do with the threshold. When you know that you can extend and extend, anchor and anchor, and keep away from the actual last treatment, and when you know that time is working for this person, this will, of course, mean that the threshold is lowered – it doesn't help what Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen says. Of course the threshold is lowered – it will SV and Heikki Holmås, it will probably the Center Party too, but it later Bjarne Håkon Hanssen as if this does not imply. But it actually does. The working party is involved in lowering the threshold for staying in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e238	I'm sorry to have to extend this debate after Christian Tybring-Gjedde's speeches. I just have to say two things. One is that all the questions Tybring-Gjedde raises are asked by the foreign administration today. They ask the question: Is this better for the child who comes as a lone minor asylum seeker? So you try to find the parents in the country where they come from, if that's possible, to see if this is a person who actually feels better where it comes from, than in Norway. It is actually our job to ask: does this child have a strong connection with Norway? That's the job we do. We do this job from our side, because if we find that the child is more closely related to the country it comes from, and we get the parents, we send that child back to its parents. That's the job we're doing, and there's no need to ask any questions about it. So to the other thing. It is actually the case that State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, I, SV and the Workers' Party have been working together on this all along. We agreed on this in the previous round when we dealt with this in the previous big deal, when there was a majority between the government and the Progress Party to ensure that a system of discrimination in the assessment of human interests was introduced at the time the application was dealt with. We are now removing that discrimination. It was perfectly prepared by the Council of State, Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. All those who can read the legal paragraphs, and who have followed this development, know that what we are doing now, is introducing a system that is more fair, and that, in addition, as Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen also explained, lowers the threshold for children. But lowering the threshold for children was the Progress Party at once in the previous period, because they too saw that here there could be special reasons for taking into account children. We want to make this a permanent and good arrangement, which does not lead to differences in treatment, depending on the time and depending on the media, as some politicians are very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e249	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e257	The odelsting is then ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e265	During the debate, the representative Per-Willy Amundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Council asks the Government to examine and promote the necessary proposals leading Norway to pursue an asylum policy in the future where strict interpretation of the Refugee Convention and other international conventions is required by Norway, so that the current system of humanitarian stay is eliminated.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e298	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e311	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Right will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e325	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-15-lower.ana.ud1846e398	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
