ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e29	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the remainder of Odelstingen’s meetings in June – and considers it adopted. The President will propose Marit Nybakk, Gunn Olsen and Per Rune Henriksen. – Other proposals are not available, and Marit Nybakk, Gunn Olsen and Per Rune Henriksen are unanimously elected presidents of the Odelstinget meetings in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e45	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e54	The Workers' Party considers it important that the rules on residence and operation at the International Foreign Service be debated. The Trandum International Foreign Office was established in due time to allow asylum seekers who do not meet to be returned to their country of origin to have a place of residence until the decision is implemented. It is today the Foreign Office of the Police that drives Trandum. Since its establishment in 2000, challenges and needs for adaptation have arisen for this entity that requires attention. The Labour Party notes that there has been a thorough debate on the proposal. The hearings have also resulted in many recordings. We believe it is important to have clear rules on the rights of foreigners on Trandum. As the hearing bodies, we in the Labour Party are consistently positive about the proposal in the proposal, but we have a concern about children's stay at Trandum. Most of the children who have stayed at the boarding school were with their parents for a shorter period. But also some lonely children are placed. We have to try to avoid this. It is important for the Workers' Party that the consideration of the child's situation is given to the foreign field. We generally want a stronger focus on children's rights, and the same applies when staying at Trandum. We think it should be possible to take this consideration more seriously by recommending that children do not stay at Trandum. It should only be in cases where other practical solutions are not feasible. It is gratifying for us to record that measures are being proposed to improve the conditions of Trandum. By thinking of upgrading building to an activity center, it will also be more adapted for families with children. It is proposed to strengthen watchkeeping and surveillance to enhance safety. At the same time, investment in the knowledge and competence of employees is outlined so that the quality of the stay can also be improved. I think this is very positive, and I thank the Ministry of Justice for this priority. But basically, Trandum is not meant to be an asylum recipient for a longer period of time, nor should it be. We still believe that Norway should have a strong and effective foreign police force. The fact that final rejection decisions are not implemented rapidly can have major consequences for the population. More things in the media in recent times have just underlined this. We will contribute to the work of broadcasting in a way that respects human rights and takes into account the legal certainty of individual applicants and the focus of the Children's Convention on the child's best interests. At the same time, we need to focus on the security of the population. This is a very big challenge. It is now working to update and simplify our foreign field through the work of the Foreign Affairs Act, and it is a big task. We nevertheless believe that it is right to discuss some of the issues in the Foreign Affairs Act now, before final treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e69	In this case, the Progress Party – we also have a concrete proposal here – would like to make it clear that the objective assessment of the police is to determine whether there is a need to maintain law and order and order and security in the international foreign exchange. That is what we want to make clear in the legal text. That's why we have an alternative proposal, which I'm dealing with, where this is more precise. Now it is no secret that the Advance Party wants a completely different arrangement in the foreign field. We want to put in place closed receptions for people who are considered to pose a safety risk, people who are on Norwegian soil pending departure, and we want this implemented across the line. In this case, there is something else that is specifically being discussed in Odelstinget, and we will come back on more appropriate occasions with our proposals on closed receptions, and not go up this debate here. I just want to clarify that we have a completely different solution to this field, which is far more extensive than what we are dealing with here today. But given the framework for this matter, we have a concrete proposal that relates to it. Then we will come back, not least in the context of the treatment of the Foreign Affairs Act, with concrete proposals that we want to promote in the case of closed-ended asylum recipients.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e78	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e81	When this matter came to the committee, I decided to go to the foreign exchange at Trandum. I had read in advance about the place – the Civil Ombudsman’s report, the odelstingsproposition and various statements in the press. It was very interesting and instructive to go out and see the place with your own eyes and listen to the experiences you've had since you started out there. They responded very positively to the visit, and said that they hoped it would come more from the Storting to see what they are doing. The Internet of Foreign Affairs was thus established in 2000. It's right next to the Gardermo and is administered and operated by the Foreign Affairs Department of the Police. The background to the establishment of the boarding school was, among other things: the criticism raised that foreigners were being deprived of liberty and placed in ordinary prisons in connection with their departure. The stay at Trandum is compulsory, either by the court or by a police lawyer. The non-residents located here have either unknown identity or shall be forced to return. Stay at the international foreign exchange is considered necessary to ensure the implementation of the refusal. On 15 February 2007, the Civil Ombudsman issued a report to the Stortinget on the situation at Trandum. The examination of the facts gave rise to several observations by the Civil Ombudsman. In particular, there was reason to stress that the absence of closer legal regulation of the operation of the boarding house was striking. This was clearly unfortunate for the legal certainty of the interns. I was excited about what would meet me at Trandum. I must say I was positively surprised at how far they had come to meet the criticism of the Civil Ombudsman. One of the appeal points of the Civil Ombudsman was the bad activity offer that was on Trandum. Now, however, a newly renovated activity house is clearly out there. A new activity offer will considerably improve the situation for those with a longer stay at the boarding school. The Christian People's Party is particularly concerned with the children's situation on Trandum. That is why it is very gratifying that the entire committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, believes that the Foreign International at Trandum is not a place suitable for children. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that no child should be interned in an institution that is the Foreign International of Trandum, a prison-like institution. It is only in exceptional cases that this can be done. We have far too little overview of who is being interned in the international space at Trandum. In dealing with this proposition in the committee, I sent a letter to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen asking about how many children have been interned at the foreign home and how long they had stayed there. In its reply of 2 May 2007, the Council of State could state that during 2006 there were a total of 162 children who had had a shorter stay with their parents at Trandum Internationaleinternat. The statistics also show that in the same year there were 12 lone minors staying at Trandum Internationaleforeigner. The letter from the Council of State makes it clear that it is not possible to assume that they were actually lone minors. But anyway, I'm surprised by the high number of children who have been staying at the aliens' home, when you know that this is a prison-like institution. In dealing with this proposition, no change in the terms of detention itself is being discussed. Therefore, the Government does not ask any questions on the basis of which children should stay in the International Foreign Service. But this is a very important question. I expect the government to come back with a thorough discussion of children's stays at an institution like Trandum Internationale when new foreign law is presented. I hope the Council of State can confirm that this will happen. That is why we are promoting a proposal asking the Government to find alternative solutions rather than to internalise children at the foreign exchange at Trandum. Today there is no alternative. One solution is to add a child-rescue institution to the Transdum International for Foreign Affairs, which means that a branch of the International for Foreign Affairs would be a child-rescue institution. With this I will address the proposals of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e102	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The next speaker is Odd Einar Dørum, then the Council of State Knut Storberget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e107	Several speakers have argued that this should not be the big foreign law debate. I'm not going to contribute to that either. I think it is good that we have got on the table what is in this case. I'll attach some very brief notes to it. Firstly, I am pleased that an overwhelming majority in the committee are concerned about how children are doing, both in terms of how they are doing at Trandum, and in terms of the fact that they are essentially not going to be there. I have nothing to add to those considerations. I perceive that the Government in practice, through the comments of the government parties, which have the support of the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party in the Committee, believes that this should be the case. I assume that you will come back and handle the matter that way. With regard to the legislative proposal itself, the Left has promoted two proposals in the Committee – which I address here. One infection is not the basis for routine police checks and checks, but whether one should have ‘reasons’ to believe, or ‘various reason’ to believe. We are promoting proposals for diverse reasons to believe. That is the one proposal. Our second proposal is basically incredibly close to what is proposed for obtaining a medical statement. That's going to be the difference of millimeters. We think those millimeters shouldn't have been there. That is why we are promoting the proposal for a medical declaration. At least we see that this is the spirit of the bill. I'm addressing the proposal. Finally, I shall say the following very briefly: it has previously been agreed on a broad cooperation between Norwegian foreign agencies, the police and the health authorities that people who have either stayed here, or should not have stayed here, should be handled in a manner that is safe for them and for the environment. I'm assuming, from this pulpit – as there was an event in this room for a while back where there was no way to say anything – that you're holding on to the extensive and wide cooperation and the routines that are established here. I noticed the Minister of Justice's clear comment on that occasion. The left simply assumes that what was then said is what is also being followed up in practice. We trust that this will be handled properly. There is no reason to believe that anyone should be interested in anything other than that. I then mentioned the proposals mentioned in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e122	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestions he referred to. Now it is such that the representative Heikki Holmås has asked for the word. I would like to ask the Council of State that perhaps all parties are given their views. Then the Council of State gets the floor, hopefully at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e127	I'm very glad that the Council of State let me go, especially because I was going to bring some praise to him. So he's probably happy, too. I would like to congratulate you on three different things in this matter. One is the Civil Ombudsman, for the way in which he intervened in this matter gave good input and good basis for the further work. The second is New Time, which for a number of years as an independent press has put a critical search light on the institution Trandum throughout the period. The last is the Minister of Justice, who quite resolutely grasped this as one of the first things he did when he entered the Justice Minister's office. This was absolutely necessary, because the foundation on which the institution was based – the law houses that were there – was very scarce, while I feel that what we have now put in place is a pretty good basis for moving on. The old foundation worried the police, but of course it was also unacceptable for those who stayed at Trandum. I was up there and visited Trandum in the previous period – before Bjørg Tørresdal – while there was not all the right there. One of the things I remember reacting to was that people who could be living there for a long time had mountain food. They had five different types of ‘mountain food’ — dry feed like a rather water up in, then you have to wait three to four minutes, and then you can eat it. It's just a detailed thing, but if you have a stay there over many months, it's an unacceptable situation. The other thing I reacted to was all the children who were there. There I am very happy that we have a government that says in its government statement: ‘Children coming to Norway as asylum seekers, either alone or with adults, are a particularly vulnerable group. The Government will have a special focus on their rights and living conditions.’ I feel that this proposition is catching up, and I feel that the treatment of the proposition here in Stortinget has captured it. I feel – and I assume – that that part of the Soria Moria Declaration will be followed up by the Government in further legal work, both in terms of the Foreign Affairs Act, and in terms of the Minister of Justice's work on this particular matter. But I feel pretty sure that we're going to be able to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e147	I note that the majority of the Committee supports the proposal submitted, and I am very pleased that we have adopted these rules. The worst thing I know – to say it a little disrespectful – is the possibility of using coercive power against both small and large without the boundaries being clear. It makes the coercive force less effective, and it can severely affect those who are exposed to it. I believe that the situation that has been at Trandum certainly gave cause for concern, and it was very important that we set up the basis of registration as soon as possible. There is a need for a comprehensive and clear regulatory framework for the stay and operation of the International Internet of Foreign Affairs. It is regulated by Section 37(d) of the Foreign Affairs Act, both the residence and the implementation. The residence is compulsory, either determined by the judgment of the court — where the grounds of suspicion are as laid down in the Left’s proposal — or by a decision of a police lawyer, based on the foreign law of the sixth paragraph of Section 37 or the fifth paragraph of Section 41, i.e. for non-residents without a known identity and for non-residents who, with the final rejection of the asylum application, have not left the country before the expiry date. The legal basis for the stay is already established upon deployment. The proposal here deals only with changes to Section 37(d) of the Foreign Affairs Act and not with changes to the terms and conditions of detention. I say that, because it tangs some of the left is concerned about in its proposal. However, I would like to point out that it is used for IDless asylum seekers who do not want to move freely in society, as well as for those who are waiting for the expulsion to take place. The minority comment of the Progress Party on these groups is, to a large extent, already covered by the applicable law. The other minority comments of the Progress Party also apply to the conditions for the detention of certain other groups. The conditions of detention are not the subject of this proposition, but will, of course, be the subject of the proposal for a new foreign law. The main objective of the proposed changes is to provide clear and precise rules on the rights of foreigners while staying at a foreign international organisation and to establish a clear framework for police control and power use. We have, of course, registered the defects that have been pointed out by several, and which have been mentioned by several people here. One thing is the legislative change and modification and the established framework we now have, the other is if you actually do what you should do to ensure decent operation at Trandum. I am pleased with the description of the representative Tørresdal. It is important now that what is being established and established is just established at Trandum in terms of activities and qualitative content, and that it is effective. In line with the principles of the Soria Moria Declaration, it is proposed to terminate the use of private security companies at the boarding house. The government believes that this type of task, which unfortunately can also involve the use of power, must be state-owned, and that therefore there will only be police officers at the boarding school. So a little bit about the children's situation, that worries us all. The majority of the Committee has noted that an institution such as the Trandum International for Foreign Affairs is not a suitable place for children and that, as far as is practicable, it is not intended to use Trandum as a boarding school where children are involved. This is in agreement with the Government. The International Foreign Service shall only be used for children and families where other solutions are not practical or legally feasible in order to obtain transport efficiency or to establish the correct identity. In exceptional cases, placement in the home may also be for children, but this will be done in close cooperation with child protection on a case-by-case basis and will be further regulated in the regulation with which we are now working. For families with children and children, a separate department has been set up, with several activities and their own outdoor services. I myself have been there and observed, before much of this came into place – it was absolutely necessary. It was also during that visit that we decided that some of these rooms down in the basement should be closed. In the case of Christian People's Party's minority comment on alternative solutions for the placement of children, I can show that last year's government had to harvest among others. provided that families with children and children with a final refusal to apply for asylum may remain in reception until departure. Lone minors under the age of 15 stay in their own institutions under the control of child protection. These measures have resulted in a large reduction in the number of children who were previously involved in the stay of the institution. In addition, the draft regulations have been drawn up within the framework of relevant guidelines both by the UN High Commissioner for Refugees and by the EU, which also cover children's stay. As indicated in the proposal, children’s rights have been discussed separately, including in relation to the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the various Conventions on Human Rights. The Government will propose to continue the provisions of the proposal in this new law on foreigners, including the principles of children laid down in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e169	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e177	The odelsting shall vote on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e185	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2-4, by Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to come back with a thorough discussion of the rights of children and the basis for internalising children at the Foreign Internet at Trandum.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to find alternative solutions in the submission of new Foreign Law rather than to internalise children at the Foreign International at Trandum, for example by adding a child protection institution to the International Foreign International.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to adjust the investment costs of the conversion of construction to activity centres and to facilitate the conversion of existing constructions in the context of the 2008 government budget, so that operations at the international foreign exchange can meet the objective of increasing the provision of activity by the internal residents.’ These proposals will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The second sentence of the fourth subparagraph of Article 37d shall be replaced by the following:Measures referred to in points (a), (b) and (c) may also be taken against a foreigner where there are reasonable grounds for suspecting that he is hiding or retaining information concerning his or her identity or the place of residence of another foreigner. If strictly necessary, decisions on such measures may be taken without a medical opinion being obtained. The medical opinion shall be given significant weight in the assessment.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e321	During the debate, Mr Amundsen has put forward an alternative proposal, No. 1, on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Section 37(d) shall be replaced by the following:Foreigners who are apprehended and imprisoned in accordance with the sixth paragraph of Section 37 or the fifth paragraph of Section 41 shall, as a general rule, be placed in an extraneous place.Foreigners are not subject to criminal care, but are managed by the police.The foreigner is entitled to receive, inter alia, visits, telephones, receipts and dispatches of postal items, health services, community, residence in open air, physical activity, privacy, religious practice and the conduct of life, unless otherwise provided for by the law here.When the police find it fit for implementation under Section 41, or to maintain peace, order or security, the police may: (a) examine the person, space and assets of the stranger, as well as other objects, spaces and areas within the territory of the institution; (b) temporary withdrawal and retention of the money and other objects of the stranger; (c) control and limit the foreigner's visits, telephone calls and postal items; (d) control and restrict the physical activity of the foreigner; Measures referred to in points (a), (b) and (c) may also be taken against a foreigner where there is reason to believe that he is hiding or withholding information about his or her identity or place of residence of another foreigner. The telephone interception referred to in point (c) may not be performed without prior notice to the interlocutors. The measures referred to in point (e) may also be taken to check whether or not he is hiding information about the identity of a foreigner. The measures referred to in this paragraph may not be taken before the foreigner’s procedural agent or representative of the public authority. Where it is strictly necessary to maintain calm, order or security, or to ensure implementation under § 41, and other less invasive measures in vain have been tried or will be manifestly insufficient, the police may: (a) use power and authorised means of power, as specified. the fourth paragraph of Section 6 of the Police Act,(b) place the foreigner in a specially secured department or security cell, or(c) exclude the foreigner wholly or in part from the community of the international community. The opinion of a doctor shall be obtained and taken into account, as far as possible, in the assessment of the implementation and maintenance of measures referred to in points (b) and (c) of this subparagraph.Measures following the fourth and fifth subparagraphs may not be used where there would be a disproportionate intervention. Such measures shall be used with caution. Police shall continuously assess whether there is a basis for maintaining the measure. In order to ensure the purpose of residence in the country and the rights of non-residents, the police may keep records of decisions taken, arrivals, control measures carried out, use of power and means of power, incidents, internal movements, departures, timing of supervision and treatment by health professionals. An independent Board of Supervisors shall be set up to supervise the operation of the International Foreign Service and the treatment of non-residents residing there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e402	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e412	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-06-01-lower.ana.ud2213e423	There is no record.
