ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e24	The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e27	On behalf of representatives Laila Davøy, Bjørg Tørresdal and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on measures to increase city security.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e32	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e56	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Council of State Life Signe Navarsetestaatsråde Øystein Djupedal The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e75	Not surprisingly, I have a question for the Minister of Transport. At a time when the shortage of road construction appropriations almost forces all communities to make use of tolls, and the Government almost renounces all financial responsibility for road construction in Norway, I note that the Council of Ministers of Navarsete now meets its own desire from the time when the group leader in the Sogn County and Fjordane County was in 2005, by promising nearly $1 billion to build a bridge in the home state that does not have a sufficient traffic base for tolls, and where the county does not have to fire, as required by other counties and municipalities. The Council of State therefore intends to authorise State foreclosure without tolls for road projects in its own county. Based on previous practices, both from this Council of State and the previous Council of State, this is a clear breach of common practice, which is very interesting to note, especially in relation to those districts that do not have their own Council of State in the field of transport. My first question is therefore: Is it by chance that the Council of State now suddenly promises nearly $1 billion to its own state to a bridge with annual traffic of 45 cars, i.e. with a very low traffic base, and that the councillor in Sogn and Fjordane has advised against because the county cannot afford it? My second question is, where should these funds be taken from in the next period? Is it Sogn and Fjordane's own framework for other national roads to be used, or is it the general pedigree pot to be used, and then at the expense of other important road construction projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e86	I thank you for this question, because it may give me the opportunity to correct some of the mistakes that the evening post has made in its lookup: Governments have not pledged $1 billion to the Dalsfjord connection. The County of Sogn and Fjordane have given priority to the Dalsfjord connection at two levels in the county priorities of the National Road Licensing Authority. The first priority was administratively overrun by the Directorate of Road – it was in connection with the previous National Transport Plan – to frustration for the whole county, including myself, who was the leader of the Center Party, and who, in fact, with Right, SV and the Labour Party, prioritised the Dalsfjord connection at the top. When it comes to national roadways, all states are given a pot for distribution, and it is the county itself that prioritises, as opposed to the tribal roads, where it is the size that prioritizes after government advice. Therefore, it is totally wrong even when the Evening Post sees a similarity sign between the Dalsfjord connection and the Laerdal tunnel, which Opseth so wisely got completed. What I did after I entered the department, when the Directorate of Roads again wanted to overrule the county council, was that I told the county council to stand firm. I also say that when it applies to other states. It's not special for Sogn and Fjordane. What's happened here is that the county has completely legally prioritised a relationship. It shall be permitted within the ordinary national road rights. Governments have not promised extraordinary means. This means that in Sogn and Fjordane there is less money for other measures, but it is the county's priority, as they have quite rightly done. [[The President clubs.]] Governments, as I am now, do not interfere with it, and the county has a new national transport plan to give priority in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e99	It is very interesting that the Council of State owes it to either the Evening Post or the Advance Party in terms of infrastructure. In this case, it's the Evening Post. But the protocol of the treatment in the county council in Sogn and Fjordane is quite clear: the recommendations of the councillor in relation to this bridge were not very strong, but the group leader from the centre party in the county council at the time, Navarsete, turned the county council. That's what's right in this case. That Sogn and Fjordane are going to use all their resources to build this bridge, is very interesting. My follow-up question is, in the light of the practice of the Council of State in cancelling tolls from all communities: will the Council of State move on a different path, so that local initiatives from other regions and other states in that country will meet the same positiveness from the Council of State to precarious and necessary developments and road projects, such as: rv. 136 in More and Romesdal, e.g. rv. 17 in Nord-Trøndelag, e.g. rv. 86 in Troms? [[The President clubs.]] Will the Council also meet appropriations for these projects with the same positiveness?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e106	The President will recall the clock in front of the representative and in front of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e109	The Council of State is particularly grateful that the representative has allowed me the great political capacity as a county representative! It is enough that the Dalsfjord connection was prioritised in a broad agreement between four parties. I respect that. I also respect that when it applies to all the other states. And if there's something I've repeated in my meeting with different county representatives, county spokespersons, etc., it's that I should respect the decisions that one makes locally. So when it comes to national roads, it's the county that has the prioritization responsibility. So if one in More and Romesdal is giving priority to the road, and in Troms and otherwise, I'm going to follow the priorities normally and have respect for what one does locally. I can promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e116	The President will open up three follow-up questions – first Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e119	Respect for local decisions and priorities is important. So do we have that in the right. The difference between us and the Council of State is, however, that this also applies to local politicians in Oslo and Akershus – in other words Oslopak 3. Governments have raised doubts about the development of the E18, which is also referred to as Norway’s longest parking space. New E18 is an important prerequisite of the historical compromise in order to solve this major transport problem in the metropolitan region. The council is also not satisfied with normal tolls, she wants an additional rush time charge and sends letters to the big cities about this. This is known as a mockery of anyone who needs the car in order to get everyday life to stretch to. It's probably an attempt to intervene in local compromises and plans, for which she says in every other context she has respect. Can the Council of State now guarantee that she will follow her own political philosophy of listening to local politicians and respecting local decisions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e127	The president would remind the representative of what the main question was. The Council of State may decide for itself whether to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e130	I would like to answer the question. There is no project I have had as many meetings with local representatives on as Oslopackak 3. There is no project I have been so busy holding on to the right course. The fact that we have to have KS1, i.e. quality assurance in the early stages, which is a system introduced by the right-wing government in the previous period, and which we are now continuing, means that it takes a little longer to get the case through, but for a project like Oslopack 3, which is one hundred times larger than the limit of KS1, it would be difficult to defend that we should not have had such a review. We need a simplified KS1. I have told my staff that we should proceed as quickly as possible. Not least because there is strong criticism of Oslopackak 2 here in Stortinget for poor government, we also have a duty to ensure that all sides are illuminated. But it's a great project, and we're going to get it through in a good way from the Government's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e137	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e140	Yeah, it's okay to use power when you're a government council. The left also has great respect for local democracy, and I know this particular matter very, very well. If this performance project, as I see it, is realized, it will swallow road materials for a long time in the future, which will go beyond roadside improvements elsewhere in the county. In addition, we want equal treatment for other states, so that they also have the same opportunity as Sogn and Fjordane now. Do the councils agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e145	Once again, I have to be clear about one thing: Sogn and Fjordane are not treated differently than other states. The fact that the Left in Sogn and the Fjords were in the minority in this case, and that one of them from the Left's side was trying centrally to override a plurality in the county council, doesn't remind me of democracy. It reminds me of abuse of power. This I don't do. I stick to the plurality in the county, either the plurality in a county wants to spend the money on one big project to develop that part of the county where one sees it necessary, or on many small projects. It is actually a part of democracy when we have placed the prioritized responsibility of the state. And with the regional reform to be introduced in 2010, the county should not only have prioritisation responsibility, but also have full financial responsibility. Then the state council no longer has any hand on that steering wheel. It supports the Government, because we believe that the wit is equally distributed, and that one around the state might give priority to the most important actions in each state. That's what I'm following as a state council.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e150	Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e153	The knowledge is probably fairly equally distributed, but the question is whether the money is distributed fairly well. I'm going back to the main question, which is the monumental construction of a bridge in Sogn and Fjordane, where there is an annual traffic of 45 – only 45! In fact, Vegvesenet believes that building the bridge will require 700 new road users on a daily basis. This is the basis for questioning whether a majority, a majority of the county council, should be pushed ahead, and not as a state council, have a clear view of how the state spends its money, on how the state should possibly spend $1 billion on building a bridge link in the West for 45 daily road users, when there are queues of projects in other counties, where we are reminded every day that we lack money for safe roads. Good roads save lives. We are just reminded of that through a Swedish survey. Is this a wise priority signaled by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e162	It may seem that some representatives feel that there is a lack of consensus in the priorities that have been set locally. But it can actually be so that a local knows best where the shoe prints. What one should prioritize in Hedmark, in Finnmark, in Sogn and Fjordane or in West or East Agder is actually the representatives who know best. I trust that, and so does the Storting. The frameworks within which a priority is given are given in the national transport plan by the previous staging following recommendations from the right-wing government as set in the previous period. The frameworks have been prioritised within. I see no reason either for Sogn and Fjordane or for other states to override their priorities. On the contrary, when it comes to Sogn and Fjordane, Oslo and Akershus, Finnmark – and all the other states – I want to work closely together to make local wishes appear in life as quickly as possible, because there is a great need on the roadside in all parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e169	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e172	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Norwegian school changes. The process, which started with PISA and the monitoring of competence, has ended with the recognition of the fall of the school-political figure of the Workers' Party, as one of the last ones. It must be recognised that the SV and the Minister of Knowledge have also been on the path of knowledge. After a start with a break in research, the Minister of Knowledge gets his or her own and SV's school programme to look like many wrong cuts. We think that in the right is good, but we're still worried. We see many signs that the Minister of Knowledge does not fully understand the means that need to be used to get away from a school that has only a top position in trouble, unrest, lack of discipline and respect. In the Right, we have a goal of creating a school that is internationally leading knowledge. That is why we are concerned about the average views and sampling methods of the Minister of Knowledge as tools for tackling school challenges. When Norwegian students were found to be cutting averages and averages in the PISA survey, there were just considerable variations. We are concerned about the use of a tip-pointup as a mapping tool for the skill levels of students and for the refusal of transparency about the results. This reveals a lack of understanding of what is needed to create strong local commitment and ownership of school development. It is natural to ask the Minister of Knowledge whether the process he is involved in will lead him to accept that action and knowledge in school depend on knowledge of the school and whether he accepts the requirements of the Knowledge Promise for measuring and transparent results in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e185	Let me first say that this description of Norwegian school, for which the representative Gundersen makes himself a spokesman, I don't think anyone has their work in Norwegian school, who recognizes himself in. Norwegian school has very many grades. We have a lot of good teachers, we have a lot of engaged students and a lot of good school leaders. But the school is in an eternal process of getting better, where we have combinations of knowledge, of course, as the most important thing in school. Many of these things we have to do together. The dialogue I have with School-Norway now makes us go together. I understood the question there that this is about national tests. The previous national tests, for which the previous government was responsible, were evaluated together. We had to remove them. They did not meet the objectives of quality, and it was actually more a political achievement project for the previous government, a project that was thus evaluated apart and together. It has also been admitted by former Minister of Education Clement. What we did then was we dispensed from the national tests and started a comprehensive process with the leading trade unions. They were piloted in school now in the fall, without public criticism at all, and they are to be fully scaled in Norwegian school from the fall of, at the fifth and eighth class stages in the subjects reading Norwegian, reading English and mathematics. The samples obtained will largely be the same type of samples as those used in the PISA study. It is interesting to hear that the representative of Gundersen believes that the national tests we are now going to carry out at school are like using a tip-up, when the evaluation tool that measures Norwegian school internationally — PISA — uses exactly the same basis. This means that if this with the new national tests that we are going to carry out is like using a tip-up, then the entire PISA study is also a tip-up. This simple way of judging it, what is the approach of the leading school researchers to how to measure knowledge, I really think the Right should stick a little too well. We want the results obtained through this to be public to those concerned, in order to improve the school. There shall be no ranking tool in the public domain. This means that the teachers, the parents, the student — of course — and the school owner will have access to the results, to make the school better. The whole point of the national tests is exactly this: Measure basic skills and improve the school!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e197	I note that the Minister of Knowledge uses a lot of the answer not to answer the question. I didn't say anything about teachers and principals. We have a lot of good teachers and headmasters. What is at stake is to provide them with tools that enable them to improve further, as well as deliver results in school that everyone is proud of. If the Minister of Knowledge also approaches the need to be fully transparent about the results, and if we are going away from average considerations, we agree on how to use the results. It's a familiar sign this with the man who was lying with his legs in the freezer and with his head in the oven. He also said that he averaged well. It has been measured by Norwegian school after too long. The Minister of Knowledge has not given clear signals that the results in school should be available to all groups for which the results are interesting. I would therefore ask him to confirm that all groups affected by the school, who have an interest in the school, will have easy access to the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e204	Then I must say once again that the representative Gundersen has not followed well enough in the hour. This is communicated from day one, from the moment the assignment with the national samples was given to the Education Directorate. All the time, these results have been supposed to be known to those concerned: the student, the teacher, the parents and the school owner. The whole point of the national tests is to make the school better, to give the student the opportunity to develop, not to hang out and rank, as in the previous national tests. They were largely scandalized, not only because the tests were too poorly professional, but also because the previous government wanted to use them as a public ranking tool, which turned out to be very unfortunate for the school. We've never talked about an average consideration. Where the representative Gundersen got it from, I don't know. Our starting point for the whole approach to national tests is that we should have a tool in school that is not controversial but that makes the school better. That is why we have also received a lot of homage, not least from the Education Association, from the student organisations and also from parents' own organisations, for the approach we now have. So there's a broad acceptance in Education Norway for what we did, as opposed to what that was for what the previous government did.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e213	The President will open up four follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e216	Transparency in school is important, and it is also important to have transparency about where resources are going. The Minister of Knowledge has been one of the foremost speakers because the general transfers and increases in transfers to municipalities have also led to more teachers in school, fewer students per year. teacher. The Progress Party has repeatedly pointed out that this is not correct and that there have been a number of investigations that have indicated that this money has not been made. Three new studies have come back for some time to show that the money does not end up in school. For a while, Anniken Huitfeldt, who is the Party's school-political spokesman, gave a local expression that if the general transfers do not give the result the government wants, we have to consider earmarking. Does the Council agree with Huitfeldt from the Labour Party – and with the Progress Party – that we must now consider using earmarked funds to ensure that the money ends up in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e225	After the government took over Stoltenberg, we transferred approx. 18 billion new kroner for the municipal sector. What turns out is that there's been a lot of holes to push this money into. The previous government had hungry food for Norwegian municipalities, which made these large transfers necessary. What we see is that approx. One third of the money we spend goes to the school sector. With regard to the new money, you can see about the same number, which is that a third has gone to the school sector. But it's true, as the representative Anundsen says, that we can't measure that there have been several years of teaching. Our government policy is that we want more teachers in school. The teacher is the guarantee of quality. The teacher is the guarantor that each student is seen. That means that I will closely follow developments in teacher density. I assume that the municipalities will do the job we have asked them to do, which Stortinget has asked them to do, namely get more educators into school. We have now given the municipalities a fixed reason under their feet. They have – let's say – breathed again after four years with the Right. Now we give them the opportunity to build up the municipality and the school, and then we also have to have more teachers in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e232	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e235	In his first reply, he gave an overview of many important actors in order to increase knowledge at school and at the schools, but he did not mention home, even if it came later. I wonder, do we do it right, when we say that the answer to the lack of knowledge among students who also have a low level of education at home is to make new initiatives in school? St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007 is good at many descriptions and is very good at analysis, but it says very little about home interventions, measures to enable the home to be an actor in child learning. It can be incorporated into the range of this government's lack of family policy. The Christian People's Party believes that raising awareness of the role of home among teachers and parents is absolutely vital if we are to increase knowledge of children and give them an education as a good basis for life. My specific question is: Will the Council of State take the initiative to focus more on cooperation between home and school as an important part of teacher training and on teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e246	I agree with Eriksen's representative that home has a very important role to play in children's learning and in the development of school. When we were kids, it was like -- let's say -- the parents' engagement stopped at the school gate, and there the teacher took over. Fortunately, it's not like that anymore. Parents have a much more dominant place in school. I applaud that, and I want a development of that. We clearly see that parents have engaged, and the school performance of their children is better. This means that in many ways we have strengthened the role of the family in relation to school. In St.meld. No 16 we also call for the parental committee for primary school to have an extended mandate, namely against secondary school. We see that many young people struggle in their transition from high school to high school, that they are falling away and have difficulty adapting. Here we want the parental committee to have a more active role, to provide advice and help young people and their families, so that they can get a safe start to high school. But my starting point is yes, I think the cooperation between parents and school is important, and we want to strengthen it in different ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e253	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e256	Four years with the Bondevik II government was very good. This has led the representative Anniken Huitfeldt and Bård Vegar Solhjell, SV, to admit that there is a need to put pressure on knowledge in the school. It is a collective recognition that is common to the Council of State, the Left and other parties. So I don't think you should hareble over the past, especially when the past was necessary to, among other things. SV should find a track where it was clear that knowledge and active knowledge dissemination are at the centre of the school. I'll go back to the starting point. I now perceive the Council of State that he accepts that national tests are a pedagogical tool to measure the development of the individual student, so that the individual student can see where he or she can stretch. Teachers shall have that tool, and it shall be available, so that we may experience it as a magnificence representative as myself experienced in an Indian village, that one actually sees the Knowledge promise laid out in a classroom, and one sees how it shines in all, both teachers and students. I understand that I have understood the Council of State this way, but I would like to ask him to say that four years with the Bondevik II government was – as I believe – necessary to get both the SV and the Workers' Party on the right course in relation to the importance of knowledge in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e263	Four years with Bondevik, Norwegian municipalities and Norwegian school imposed an economic aftermath that left them struggling. After we have added 18 billion kroner, the municipalities have not yet fully recovered. This means that they still have breathing difficulties, and it is in the municipalities the most important welfare production is. The promise of knowledge, which I perceive the representative's question concerns, is a common political product from the Stortinget. It was a unanimous biging that joined the Knowledge Lift, and it was a long process even before the previous government. Both former government councillor Lilletun and councillor Gieske were in this before I got the great joy of implementing the Knowledge promise. It has been implemented with power and strength, and it has been a great success for the school. I'm very happy for school. The starting point is that we have a common political mindset in this house. It also means that this promise of knowledge is not politically controversial either. As far as national tests are concerned, it is right, as I have said, that we have given a mandate to the Directorate of Education. It has been a priority in the Norwegian school. We will complete this until the autumn, for two weeks in September to October. Then we'll see if it really gets undisputed. The results shall be public to those concerned, but I shall not facilitate any ranking. That means that I do not want this to be published in newspapers, where schools are to be hung out. That's not what creates good learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e273	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e276	Monday last week, Øystein Djupedal was out in the VG and the cheer was that the student organisations are taking a break from SV's program to remove the grades. Øystein Djupedal was the well-known head of the programme committee in SV and was given the impression that SV would choose to remove grades and exams. Now he cheers that even more takes a distance from SV's program. To the VG, Øystein Djupedal says that the grades have come to stay, and that he is very pleased that the student organisations are now supporting grades. My question is then whether Øystein Djupedal has now given up his fight against the characters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e285	The representative refers to the Programme Committee. I've always been for grades. Characters were also the starting point of the work programme I presented, but a very close majority of our national meetings wanted to eliminate the characteristics of high school. I have always thought that grades are a good measuring tool if they are supplemented by other evaluations. That's what we're doing. We have given a comprehensive mission to the Education Directorate to provide a written and oral evaluation of the student who is motivating, i.e., in addition to the characteristics of the youth and at secondary level, and as a new evaluation tool in the stages of secondary school. One of the most difficult things in school is giving motivated feedback to the student. The assignment I have now given to the Education Directorate has been a neglected area of school under many government councils. The one-sided focus on grades has given – let's say – a very narrow assessment of the student's performance. I have good faith that the new tools we are about to introduce in school will give the teacher strength and security to give motivating feedback. We're doing the school better, and for some steps, grades are going to be part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e292	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e295	I would like to ask my main question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The Christian People's Party supports the fact that this government has repeatedly expressed its desire to follow up the Northern Territory Strategy launched by the Bondevik II government. The government, with Prime Minister Stoltenberg and Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre at the head, created great expectations in the north with its launch of the North Region Strategy in Tromsø last autumn. I would say that the cigar tour was very high in front of a staggering auditorium in Tromsø. The Northern Region Strategy Paper states, inter alia, that:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Government supports the initiative for an international transport corridor across Narvik port.’ It describes how Narvik port plays an important role in the international east-west transport corridor. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has expressed a positive opinion about the project now, almost as if it were just a matter of time before the lines from Asia to Narvik were to be put into service. But then: Before the weekend, the government decided not to support the trial transport planned for 2007. As a direct result of this decision, the whole project is now frozen, and the Narvik office is closed. The project was, in my opinion, entirely dependent on both verbal support and state financial support to move forward with negotiations on a trial transport. Former Minister of Industry, now County Council in Nordland, Odd Eriksen, has said that he takes the rejection as a confirmation that the Government will do nothing more in the north than drop the oil companies onto the base. He believes that "the refusal of NEW guarantees in reality shows that there is a total lack of willingness to invest in the north." He goes on to say: ‘I do not see any political will in the department.’ My question will then be: how could the Government give the grace to such a positive and promising project, after the promising and promising statements of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, of the Minister for Transport and of the Minister for Coastal and Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e316	First of all, I am pleased with the positive speech by the representative Sahl on the Northern Region Strategy. However, I cannot stand in favour of the cigar display. I believe it was a very realistic project – a vision – we presented in Tromsø on 1 December 2006. With regard to this specific matter, I am in the process of maintaining the vision of a transport from Asia to Narvik port, with transport to the western markets, is still exciting and should be given full attention. With regard to the concrete question of a State rescue operation for a company that was to operate the project, the Government was not prepared at that time to deposit extra money, outside the ordinary processes, into the present project. It was about a company where the local authorities, stated, had been contributors for a long time and had themselves set limits on how much more could be laid down in the project. Now we have to look at the whole of this, in order to know where we're going to place public crowns in terms of both experimentation and design. But I stand by the fact that as part of the initiative in the north, this is a very exciting project, not least in the light of what is happening in North Sweden. Otherwise I have to say, on behalf of the Government, that I cannot stand for any of the quotations that were made by the representative of Sahl in terms of the bet in the north. It has many dimensions and many elements, and it remains in the budgets and plans of many departments. There is a bet on a broad front, not least the interpellation debate here in the Storting yesterday, on cooperation with Russia, showed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e327	I would like to ask my supplementary question to the Minister for Transport. In the 2005 budget debate, the Minister for Transport stated the following: ‘To the representative Sahl, who mentioned a corridor from China to the United States: it’s an exciting project. At the Ministerial Conference in Verona, where I was present, the United States was also its Minister for Trade. I took up the matter with him, and we were certain that this matter should be discussed and raised between our two countries.’ And I can also say, ‘And I can say from this pulpit that this matter should also be the focus of the multi-ethnic government.’ Then it is amazing that when this project is at a crossroads, when you need state verbal and financial support to carry out those negotiations and get a trial transport, you say no. What's wrong with the international talks?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e343	Nothing has gone wrong in the conversations. It is quite right that Foreign Minister Støre says: this matter is a priority and must also be a priority in the coming period. The reason we didn't allow money now, so my colleague has also done the right thing, so I don't have to repeat it. This is one of the actions of the Northern Region Strategy. It is also one of the projects that the Ministry of Transport focuses on. I will continue to keep it focused in the future, along with my colleagues in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e348	There will be four follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e351	I want to go back to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. When the Minister of Foreign Affairs chooses to use the concept of State rescue on the project, I do not understand why the Minister of Foreign Affairs himself in the Government document has used NEW Corridor and Narvik as one of the best examples of the Northern Region policy of the Government – well supported by the local Narvik environment, and also the flag as the foremost and, of course, the best project from the Nordic County Municipality. The characteristic that the Foreign Minister chooses to give here, I think he has to go for a walk in the closet and go through it there. To put it simply, if Narvik does not get this opportunity to deal with the colossal growth of exports from East to North America, there will be another destination on the North Callot. You have to stop talking about all of these views the government has for the Northern Region policy, and to talk about North Norway as a part of the country of opportunity, if you're not able to fill this with content. Here you have a concrete, good project. You give Narvik a new chance?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e360	If that was the last question, I'd like to answer yes to it. Narvik is an important port. There is an important knowledge environment, and the city is an important part of the industrial community of Northern Ireland. So having a close dialogue about the possibilities that lie there, we'll keep going. At the same time, it is important that we from the Government are responsible for looking at the concrete projects, the qualities of them, the governance of them, and the way they operate, when we're going to use all the limited resources for bet across a very wide field. But I can confirm that what we've written about the NEW Corridor, the visions of it, we're safe behind it. We're busy and going to work on it. But we found that in the current situation at the moment it was not right to get in with the kind of government funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e368	Kenneth Svendsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e371	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I've been to a conference after a conference where the government highlights the North Region bet as an important part to get speed on North Norway. So far, these have been words, words, and nothing but words. Every time it comes to action, nothing happens. Evidence of this is that money will not be allocated to the east-west corridor in Narvik, in line with no drilling for oil outside the North and Troms. Every time there are actions, the government's answer is no, except when the bet is mentioned in parties or at conferences. Then it's very high cigarette feed. But now the troll is out of the box, because now the former Minister of Industry has said that there is no political will in the departments. And you should listen to him, because he's just come from the Ministry of Economics, which is an important part of this. My question therefore becomes: Is it not that the so-called Northern Region Initiative of the Government is only word and nothing else, and does not the Foreign Minister understand that it is limited how long can the northern countries be led behind the light?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e380	It's not like the North Region bet is just words. We added 270 million new kroner to the North Region measures in the budget last year. We use them this year, as well as everything else that goes to the north in research and development in the fields of fisheries, energy, seismics, transport, etc. Of course, this will also apply to Nordland. But it is also true that when we receive an enquiry in mid-February to make, at short notice, exceptional contributions of state capital to a company, it has to be considered very rigorously. I think it would be wrong for the Northern Region bet, for the Nordic countries and for the many exciting projects that are there, if we don't also make very strict demands on the management, prospects, operation and management of innovative projects. We're going to be able to take risks and chances. We do that in a lot of ways. I refer again to the debate we had yesterday on the link across the border with Russia, and can only very clearly say that there is a lot of action and pressure in this effort. I think people in the north should notice that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e385	Bea Lymph – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e388	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Transport. There's a lot that's good, in the Northern Territory message that the government made in December. But it's very little that's concrete. That's why I understand very well the frustration that the fires in Narvik and Northland now feel, the ones who have stood on to create this transport corridor between China and the United States via Narvik. The previous government was entitled to grant three-quarters of a million to develop the NEW Corridor concept as part of its Northern Territory initiative. Therefore, the joy was also that this government made a concrete contribution to this project. But that's when I want to ask the Minister of Transport: what about the point in the message that concerns a possible railway connection from the Kirkenes to Nikel and new routes in the North Callot? Can we expect these measures to be followed up by the Government, or could these measures have the same fate as the NEW Corridor in Narvik?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e397	Both new flight and possibly train connection to Nikel are among the projects that will be evaluated. It's like there's all plans for a better flight connection from Kirkenes and Austover. It is the airlines that are considering the creation of new routes. Of course, when it comes to the train connection, it's a big deal. It requires both planning and implementation. So far we're in the first stage. That is – like the NEW corridor – one of the projects that will be considered in the future and that we will come back to in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e404	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e407	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Among the fine promises that the Government was chosen to fulfill was the promise of a solid North Region bet. Other promises, such as: full child care coverage, large investment in the environment and so on, we have all seen that the government has gone away. Now, then, there is considerable uncertainty about the Government's willingness to fulfill the most concrete strategy in the North Region effort. Although both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Transport are trying to minimize, there is hardly any threat when it comes to concrete promises: it becomes just air. What former Minister of Industry Odd Eriksen has said in this context has already been referred to. He concludes, among other things. with the following: ‘I do not see any political will in the department.’ After this, my question becomes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it me now, the beginning at the end of what should be a solid North Region bet, or is it the contours of a careful North Area bet of the type ‘light’?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e423	First, I would just like to strongly distance myself from the claim that we have gone away from promises – to which the representative Sørfonn referred – on, for example. kindergarten area. The biggest bet that has ever happened is there, and it says the Government, and me, strongly in favour. There is no «air» in the north zone bet. In this case, I believe that the government has taken responsibility for a difficult decision. We have to take responsibility for how we use state crowns to a company in a crisis situation. We thought that the time was not right to go in with these means. That doesn't mean we've ignored the vision of the NEW Corridor, about Narvik's role and place, but it might set a standard for us to also make strict demands on how projects are to be carried out. If you use this case as an example of having few or small ambitions, I would rather say that this shows that we are making strict demands. It's part of having big ambitions for a bet that should be able to stand over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e430	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e433	My question goes to the Council of State Djupedal. We have recently been given insight into the use of the funds of the promise of knowledge in schools as regards the development of the skills of teachers. This is true in selected municipalities in the last year, and it reinforces the concerns we have heard about from different teams, among others. from the Education Association, but also from others. It seems to point in the direction that the means of competence development do not reach teachers to a large extent. At the same time, we can see that the school leaders are gaining competence. That's good, and it's necessary, but it's absolutely crucial for the school that teachers get skills development in both science and pedagogics. That is the very basis of the Knowledge promise, and that is the very basis for coming forward. In the left, we experience that the Minister of Knowledge has so far and to a large extent shifted responsibility for this development, among other things. by referring to local school owners. There is reason to point out that the promise of knowledge is a national virtue in close interaction between national and local authorities, an interaction where there is a significant opportunity to ensure that money comes to their destination. When the Council of State does not take this responsibility, he cannot at the same time escape the fact that the Minister of Knowledge is the top political man in charge of Norwegian school. So the question I'm asking is, how will the Minister of Knowledge now take responsibility for cleaning up the situation that the means of continuing education and training do not reach the teachers? These means are absolutely essential for it to shine, as I experienced it in an Indian village: a girl rises, looks at me and says, "We're going to get an infinite amount better than you." And I see a proud teacher sitting and smiling and clapping in the background. When are we going to make it so that the teachers can smile – of the same joy – because the money they want will reach here too?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e449	I take responsibility. That means that these means to a large extent get to where they're going. What has happened in the early years of the promise of knowledge with the great resources we are now spending on continuing education is that priority has been given to school management. It's been a wish from the Government and from the previous government. Now, what we're going to see is that it's the individual business that decides how to use the money, and that the study credits have gone to school leaders to a greater extent. Of course, most of the large funds have gone to the teachers. It is not the case that continuing training in the Knowledge Commitment is mainly about the production of credits. It is about the introduction of new curricula, either in the form of courses at school or in the form of courses organised outside school. This is in line with the Government’s approach to this, and — not least — with that of the previous government. Like the representative, Dørum, I have registered that some teachers have thought that there has been too poor dialogue at each school on how to use the funds. I've taken that very seriously. We have entered into a dialogue with the KS and with the Education Association. We're together on twelve points that are going to give an even better local anchoring, so that the money goes more to the teachers, and you agree on how the funds are going to be used. The fact that, in the early days of the promise of knowledge, priority has been given to school management is important and correct. School management is very important for the implementation of the promise of knowledge and for the security of the development of the school as we wish. Let me also say that we follow this closely. My impression is that both the Education Association, the other organisations in the school and the KS have taken this very seriously. It is not possible for me to decide what the funds in each business should be used for. I trust that the individual school owner and the management of the school together with his or her employees will determine in which areas you need the most knowledge and in which areas you need the most to go on a course. It's not possible for me or anyone else at state level to go into this in such detail, but we're doing almost 750 million this year. available for continuing training. That's the greatest promise ever.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e466	It is, of course, a good thing that the school leaders get their skills, but it is absolutely essential that the teachers get their skills not only in terms of professional plans, but also in the fields of science and pedagogics. Governments can now have a shiny opportunity to do something. In a number of municipalities – Oslo, Bergen and Stavanger – in Telemark county councils and, most recently, in Egersund, decisions are now taken locally to undertake mandatory investigations on a year of competence for teachers. A systematic further training is required to ensure that teachers are given professional and pedagogical weight in what is the purpose of the Knowledge Lift. It gives the Council of State an opportunity to meet this significant local energy, for example by: to be willing to re-examine an obligatory level of continuing training and knowledge of competence, and at least to be willing to assess experimental arrangements in this respect. After all, when this energy comes from below, a responsible school councillor who has the purposes that the Council of State has now proclaimed must run to meet them and shout: Here I am! Then my question is to the Council of State: what will the Council of State do to enable us to get binding trials on the continuing training courses, for example. together with municipalities that are now willing to discuss this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e475	Over the years, we spend several billion kroner on the entire Knowledge promise and the great investment in continuing education. That's what we use, for example. to the teacher, for the teacher is the most important individual in the class for our children to learn more. It's very important to give the teacher security, both in relation to the subject, in relation to how the new teacher plans are, and how the knowledge promise is. Therefore, the processes that we have now been through with the teachers and KS have been very useful and important to all parties. We are also quite clear on the local anchoring, as to how best to use these funds. Let me also say that continuing education is a priority in some areas also in the Knowledge promise. Natural sciences and linguistics. That is why many teachers have now received award-winning in the field of natural sciences and language, and also in other subjects if one has locally wanted it. Anchoring locally and the framework around it provides this possibility. For many years to come, we will use considerable resources to invest in school, in continuing education and training of teachers. We do that with state resources, but also school owners, i.e. KS, have called for a considerable level of competence for teachers. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e484	The President will again remember the clock that is on the platform. When the red light goes out, the speaking time is out. The President will open up follow-up questions – first, Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e489	The development of competence launched by the Bondevik II government is very important to enable teachers to carry out the knowledge promise in a good way. I also think it is good that municipalities and county councils contribute as much with their own money as they do, but I know a little anxiety when it may not produce as good results as we want. However, these are measures already in place for teachers who are already out of school. For the Christian People's Party, it is also important which start we give to the newly educated teachers, and what competence we give them on the way. Many newly educated teachers report that they feel insecure in the classroom situation. Getting feedback and recordings that can make the situation safer is important. The Christian People's Party has therefore proposed a mentoring arrangement for newly educated teachers, where experienced teachers are linked to a new teacher in the first year of work. In this way, we can ensure and maintain the knowledge that exists. Will the Government take this into account as a whole on the competence strategy for teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e496	That's one of the many suggestions we're considering. That is also a good proposal. We have just had an evaluation of general teacher training, conducted by NOCUT. It gave a rather discouraging result. For some of our colleges, the results were particularly discouraging. One of the things that was pointed out is that there has been little connection between theory and practice. Many teachers say they get a practical shock when they get out of school. Education has been too theoretically anchored and not anchored in the classroom. It's one of the things that we're now in a process with, and that we're going to make changes to. We need to have better teacher training and a better practice related to teacher training, so that young newly-trained teachers feel safe in meeting with the student in the dissemination of knowledge that they do not feel insecure about this. That's why it's one of the important challenges we're addressing. The introduction of a mentoring system may be a good proposal, but we may need more proposals than just that. Because, as I said, the evaluation provided a good basis for making quite significant changes in teacher training, both in terms of content and structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e505	Anders Anundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e508	There is one input that is more important than any other input to ensure quality in school, and it is competent teachers. It shows all the research. In order to improve the skills of teachers, two ways must be followed. One is the long term race. In fact, I expect the Council of State to present a major reform of general teacher training, such as: Which means we get a five-year run with a requirement for depression. The other one is to follow up the teachers who are actually there. They are the ones who will implement the promise of knowledge in the first place. When, for some time, the Stortinge dealt with a proposal for an obligatory plan for teachers at individual level in order to ensure that teachers at individual level receive the necessary continuing training, the government parties opposed it. I felt that the Council of State did not respond to the question from the representative of Dørum about whether the Council of State would take an initiative to ensure the right of teachers to continuing training, so that they could best do their job. I would like to challenge the Council of State again: what will the Council of State do in concrete terms to ensure that the individual teacher receives the requirement for continuing training contained in the promise of knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e517	Once again, of course, I agree with the heart that the most important thing in the classroom is the teacher. The teacher's competence, knowledge and security in the exercise of the teaching profession are very important for our children to learn more and for our school to improve. This means that we have a challenge to the new teachers related to teacher training, but that we also have a challenge to the teachers we have. The teachers we have are going to have for many years. They're good teachers, and they have to feel that society is betting on them. That's what we're doing. The level of knowledge, the level of competence we have, is the greatest single promise for any profession ever. The government takes half of the bill. The municipality, the school owner, takes the other half. Over these years as the Knowledge promise is introduced, more than 2 billion DKK will be spent on continuing education. It's clear that as a society we expect something left for it, that we're going to get better schools and better students. What we are going to do after the promise of knowledge in the field of continuing training of teachers, the Government has so far not discussed. I would assume that there will be a discussion, because the continuing training of teachers, as of many other professional groups, is a continuous process. We have now taken an extraordinary promise related to the implementation of the Knowledge promise, but mainly continuing education is also the responsibility of the school owner. We therefore need to have a dialogue with KS on how to proceed in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e526	Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e529	The funds get where they're going, the Council of State said. I wonder if he really knows. I think it makes a lot of sense, especially if it's the result of a very active local ownership, that you rate school management and upgrade school management. If there is something many reports suggest, Norwegian schools need to upgrade school management. What is dramatic, however, is that we do not have a systematic follow-up on whether the means of continuing education come to those who are going to benefit from them. I have previously asked the Minister of Knowledge whether action will be taken to systematically obtain information on how the funds are used. We have local school ownership in Norway. We're going to hang on to that, and we're going to develop that. But it does not prevent, as Dørum said, cooperation between the state and the municipalities from requiring the state to collect information. Has the Minister of Knowledge now undertaken systematic information retrieval, so as to know how the funds are actually being used outside the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e539	There is a report from Fafo, which has been ordered, and which is the basis for much of this debate, on knowledge of the local anchoring. The starting point is that it is very difficult — not to say impossible — for a Council of State to be so clear that it is the school, that it is the teacher, to have continuing training in precisely these areas. I trust that the school owner, school manager and teachers will agree on this. That is why we have had a comprehensive process of many meetings between my department and the KS and the Education Association, where we now agree on twelve points for the way forward. The main challenge here is local ownership, local administration, local understanding and participation. My impression now is that the teachers are happy with the process we've been in, well pleased with the results of it. How to use these means — if you choose to use them in the production of credits for some teachers, or if you have the opportunity to go on a course for a few days to learn about the contents of the promise of knowledge — I would like to say again: It is up to the individual school owner in cooperation with the teachers and the school management. And let me say that I trust the school to handle this, but if it turns out again that there is concern or uncertainty about the big funds for this, we are at any time ready to meet the Education Association, the KS and other actors in the school. But we've now had an extensive series of meetings. And I think this is now all right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e552	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e555	I will be asked a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Last week the Prime Minister came with a violent attack on Siv Jensen's criticism by the UN. He went so far as to say that the Progress Party insults thousands of Norwegian UN soldiers, that the policies of the Progress Party will lead to international lawlessness, and that Norway will become more isolated – to take some of the highlights. It seems like we've been trotting on some very tender toes. Criticism of the UN is almost like blasphemy, or as if a Northman were about to ask questions about whether we have too much skiing on TV. It might be interesting to know whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs supports the formulations made by the Prime Minister, especially after the information manager of the United Nations Federation believes that the Prime Minister mixes the cards. He rejects the alleged insult. VG believes in the leadership position that Stoltenberg is guilty of an old Norwegian sin, namely to refer to the UN as a ‘holy cow’. Is it the case that in the Norwegian debate there is no room for fundamental criticism of the UN and that the criticisms such as this one. The party of progress comes with, does it automatically have to defecate and give extreme labels?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e568	There's room for criticism of the UN. And I think the Prime Minister may be the prime example of one who has engaged in constructive criticism, by spending a lot of his time running the United Nations Panel to reform and change the United Nations' approach to humanitarian development, which includes: have led to pilot projects being carried out in eight countries, with one UN at country level. It's a kind of approach where you change the way the United Nations works, to get it better. I was not in Norway last week, which the representative will be aware of, and did not follow the debate from post to post. But what I want to say as a basic attitude is that an approach to the UN with criticism that intends to leave behind any doubt as to the role of the United Nations in the world society based on the UN Charter, the tasks it will carry out, is critical to me. That wave is very strong, among other things. in the United States, where, through criticism of the United Nations, you want less UN, or as you would like to say in American debate: take off the floors of the UN building. But I think that a criticism that goes towards looking at how we use the funds better, how we make the arrangements of the work better in order to live up to the charter's provisions, it needs the UN. And the United Nations is going to know that Norway is going to be a critical supporter, that's what I used to say to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. I think it's also a kind of support that the United Nations needs to implement what you're doing. From what I read by the representative of Jensen last week, I think it was an easy way of dealing with what is the role of the United Nations, the demanding role of the United Nations, in today's world, and contrary to Norwegian policy, which is going to support an international legal order where the United Nations is central.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e577	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. What you have with the United Nations, has something to do with what space you have to make criticism. And I'm kind of wondering about it. On Monday's Lunch TV, the foreign minister was interviewing. He said that we should not leave the criticism to those who want less UN and that we should not leave it to those who are skeptical to the 'Idea United Nations'. Now it became a bit in the air if he allowed the Progress Party those points of view – but I believe that there will be a huge simplification of the debate if everyone who speaks out skeptically about international cooperation, to international organisations, is given positions that do not vote. At least I strongly reject the fact that the Progress Party wants an irrelevant UN. I would like to ask the Foreign Minister whether it is not legitimate to have this debate again. It will almost be as if the Prime Minister and the Norwegian Government set the room for action for debate and that the criticism of the Progress Party is correct here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e588	I believe that the criticism of the Progress Party was not correct here, but in a democracy, of course, it is an opportunity to make that criticism. But I believe that this was also a reflection of an approach to the role of the United Nations that I believe – with respect to reporting – the representative of Høglund and myself, the Labour Party and the Progress Party and the Government and the Progress Party have different approaches to. When it comes to criticising the UN – we spend a lot of public tax money on this – it is clear that we should be critical in the follow-up to it, as for all the use of both political and economic capital. But at the same time, I believe that a critic who leaves the impression that the UN is almost irrelevant on the international stage – for the impression you could get – must be able to resist. And that's the way it is, I think, that when the Progress Party comes up with a pretty strong impact on something and is faced with criticism, you're told that you're looking for the Progress Party. That's not the situation. It is a debate on the role of the United Nations. The Progress Party must also be able to hear back.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e597	The President will open up three follow-up questions – first Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e600	Everything is related to everything. The government places emphasis on the UN, including: at the expense of the World Bank. The government is also eager to support the Global Vaccine Fund – GFATM and GAVI. In connection with the Fund's filling meeting in Oslo this week, the U.D. gave a job interview on Monday, including: GFATM. The management of the fund was aware that their vaccine-focused efforts depend entirely on the efforts of others to strengthen health services and health infrastructure in the same countries. They just presented the World Bank as clearly the most important partner in this way. They warned against the ongoing policy that is weakening the World Bank's efforts. Now it's just such a policy that the Red-Green Government operates. Will the Government take the consequences of the GFATM warning and provide the necessary balance between the focused and the more general measures in this sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e607	The World Bank has a key role to play. That is what the Government believes, and it has been very clear to the Minister of Development. We believe that the importance of the role of the UN system must be given priority, and in our overall priority it means that we are using something more in that direction. There has been a drop in the cost of funds to the World Bank, which continues to receive substantial funds. Now the GFATM isn't a vaccine fund. It is a large fund for the control of HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, where vaccines are unfortunately not an active substance. However, the point of the representative Vallersnes is important, it is about supporting the health system at country level in order to implement those programmes. There's an important role for the World Bank, but also for the UN degrees, so I think it's really going to be wrong to hit a wedge between the two, because they complement each other. But there has been a need for Norway to be able to follow up its UN exposure, to which the Government attaches importance, also by means, and another field is to stand still with soldiers for peacekeeping forces under UN mandate and UN mission. There are lines in the Government's foreign policy towards the UN that we are in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e614	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e617	I would like to point out that the really critical questions here should not be asked to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, but to the sender of the message: What has the United Nations actually done for world peace? The United Nations, which has received 13 peace prizes, and is currently participating in 18 peacekeeping operations around the world! Now the situation is not as the sender of the message describes it, and the Christian People's Party will not work for that to happen, but I will ask a question to the Foreign Minister in the follow-up to what the representative Finn Martin Vallersnes said. It is vital for good development – for peace and human rights in a broad sense – in the world that efforts are also made to develop health systems. What has puzzled me lately is that the government prioritises a number of other things in its assistance, including in relation to the United Nations, than health. Why has the government prioritised health in aid to the world’s poor country?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e623	I would like to answer that question, but I would like to stress that there is another government council that is responsible for that work. There is close contact between the two affected, so I think it is a good opportunity to answer that. I don't want to stop because we've prioritised health systems. The Minister of Development explained that we are committed to giving three-year commitments to the Global Fund, and if the level of the Fund is now increasing, Norway will also increase. What we have seen, and as the representative also sees through his work on vaccines, is that these so-called vertical interventions – vaccines and drugs for HIV/AIDS and tuberculosis – if done correctly, also build health systems. There is a debate between system bets and deliveries of goods. If supplies of goods and medicines are done correctly, we also build systems. What we do in the government regarding health professionals, how we can support health professionals in poor countries so that it doesn't become the so-called brain drain in that area, is part of it. So I can't stand the claim that we're weakening our efforts on health systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e630	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e633	World society and the global economy are calling for more global policies and not less global policies. We have a good liberal expression that says that whoever makes people small can't expect anything big. We could rewrite it in this context and say that whoever makes the United Nations small can't expect anything big either. In this context, I need to say that the Left stands for a policy in which we want to strengthen the United Nations, and to the extent that criticism of the United Nations is justified, in what we see in the past, it is a criticism that the Member States have not made the United Nations stronger to deal with the major global challenges we have. I don't know how to end this with a question, but I would like to be allowed to state that the Government and the Foreign Minister must know that they also have support in the opposition to make the United Nations stronger. Does the Foreign Minister like that support?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e642	I thank you for this question, because it gives me an opportunity to say that I met the UN Secretary-General last Friday and could say that Norway is behind the UN. Norway supports the Secretary-General, who has the most difficult job in the world, and being able to say it on behalf of a majority government, is one thing, but being able to say it because I know there is a broad population and a broad majority in this room, it actually makes a difference. And that's also perceived. Norway is the seventh largest financial contributor to the UN. Per capita, we're sky high on top. This means that we have to make demands, as we do with our own institutions in Norway, which are to contribute to the Norwegian welfare society. We must also make demands on the UN. It is clear that when a leading party in Norway goes out and says that the UN is almost threatening world peace, I agree with the representative Sponheim that that message is being returned to the UN Member State, because the UN can never be better than the sum of what the countries do, not least what the big countries do, and not least what the countries of the Security Council do. That's why I think Norway should not step back to be a driver, and when we're critical, it's to get more of the UN and better of the UN, and not less of the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e649	Let's move on to the last main question. – The President will not allow follow-up questions beyond supplementary questions to the main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e654	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. The time after Christmas has been marked by chaos in the road sector. In the space of Christmas, the Hanekleiv tunnel collapsed, and the first reaction from the management of the State Road Service was, that can happen. After thinking a little bit about it, the reaction was different. This is where it was supposed to be cleaned up. Investigations were set up and tunnel monitoring was initiated. The investigation committee was clear in its judgment. It was done for bad work. There was a lack of control and a lack of security. The trade community, such as advisory engineers and other organisations, goes out and criticises the Vegvesen. The Council of State receives the selection setting and decides that this should be cleaned up before, in the next sentence, it determines that there will be no impact on the management of the Road Administration. Shortly thereafter, the snow comes to the South. The snow's coming down, the traffic's stopping. Some experience the nightmare, they snow inside – some are in need for almost 24 hours on one of our most trafficked roads, E18. The road service was primarily due to non-resident wagon trains. This repudiated the police. Then one concluded that it was the road that was too bad and was happy that it was to be built a new road. The Council of State, on its side, says that there are tenders and outsourced competition that are the problem, and thus merges into the range of irresponsible state councils. What goes on again is that the Council of State seems to be very pleased with the job that Vegvesen does. It's either been, it's private entrepreneurs or the previous government that's to blame. The state road service is doing its job. While others are talking about doing something about structures and management in the road sector, the Council of State of Navarsete talks about competition, private actors and the violent weather. Can the Council of State confirm that she is very pleased with the management of the State Road Administration and that she has full confidence in the job of road director Søfteland?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e669	If the Council of State had distrusted the largest state that she ruled, it would have been distant from there a long time ago. This state council has shown in other cases that where necessary, we go in and make changes, whether they relate to structural changes or changes in staff. When it comes to the events we've had in winter, I think it would be wrong to put them all in the same booth, because the events have, after all, a different background. Unfortunately, what happened at the EI8 between Arendal and Kristiansand in week 8, I have regretted earlier. I would like to do it again, on behalf of both myself as the responsible state council and the road authorities, to all those who were stuck there. Of course, this should not happen. What happened was that we have a road section that is too bad and that is to be replaced by a new road. There was a lot of traffic, there was a lot of rainfall, and a power just not to take the snow and get rid of it. Already in the 2007 state road code, I raised the question of functional contracts – if they are good enough, if they are sufficient for the job to be done, and if they are followed up well enough. It's a mission that the State Road Administration had been given independently of, as it's described as, chaos in winter. This is a work that I want to follow closely, because it's not just what was called by the representative here, which has been a problem, I've got too many recordings from different parts of the country where one sees that winter maintenance has been worse in the last few years than it was before. Not least heavy transport reports on this, and I take this very seriously. I'm not looking to find scapegoats, I'm looking to find a system that allows us to do this better in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e680	I thank you for the humble attitude the Council of State has now taken, because in previous interview, among other things. with the Friend of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Council of State owes it to reforms in the Road Administration, to tenders and competition for hours spent in need of drivers. She also says in that interview that there is equally poor winter preparedness throughout the country, as far as she confirms now. Very well-known drivers have never been in need before in modern times in Norway for as long as they are now in the South. It is good that the Council of State now addresses this with the functional contracts. But what surprises me is that there have been two rollouts of functional contracts while the Council of State has been sitting in the Council of State. Large contractors say that this has been up for treatment twice in the Ministry of Transport without any action by the Council of Navarsete. Instead, she has spent time on the weather, on the wind, on the outing – and on Bondevik. That is why I now hope that the Council of State will take responsibility. It now seems like she's starting to take it, and I think it's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e687	The state councils have always been clear that she takes on the responsibility of the department. We've also had a whole lot of focus on functional contracts. In the spring of 2006, I met all the leaders of the State Road Administration. Then I was informed that work was in progress on reviewing the functional contracts and making improvements. So it's a year ago. Afterwards, one has worked on this. Obviously, it's a very hard job. The system of deferred competition is not limited to the state councils that have pointed to it. It has also been done to me by large entrepreneurs – it happened quickly, it was a great upheaval. I have also received the question: Was it good enough quality? It is clear that these are also questions I have to address. But the most important thing for me now is to find a system that makes us not experiencing again what happened at the E18, and that we can avoid accidents that result from bad winter maintenance or else in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e696	The oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e703	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative of Bjørg Tørresdal to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who is directly responsible. Question 13, from the representative Robert Eriksson to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, is moved and answered, at the request of the Council of State, for question 3, to be answered by the same Council of State. Questions 19 and 20, from the representatives of Thore A. Nistad and Inge Wohnning to the Minister of Health and Health, respectively, are missing because the questions are not present. Question 22, from the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen to the Minister of Health and Welfare, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice who is directing him. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered in response to question 17, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e724	‘The Council of State shall have on several occasions, inter alia: in the Grand Duchy on 14 December 2006, claiming that the two-level model of the Right will be 3 300 fewer local politicians in Norway. What in the Right Programme or Proposals of the Stortinget does the Council of State base such a calculation on?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e731	Statistics from the Central Bureau show that 11 866 local politicians were elected at the last municipal and county elections in Norway. Right wants a two-tier model. It would mean that all the 728 county politicians would disappear. In primary municipalities, a total of 11 138 politicians were elected at the last elections, i.e. that there were on average 26 elected representatives in each municipality. In the Municipal Report of March 2004, Højre’s party leader – then Minister of Local and Regional Affairs – Erna Solberg clarified that the aim was to reduce the number of municipalities in Norway by 100–150. Since then, there have been three fewer municipalities and the fourth association will be in 2008. I have not registered that the Right wants a different development than the one described by the party leader Solberg. An association of municipalities, as outlined by the leaders of the Right Party, will remove at least 2,600 municipal politicians, i.e. politicians in the primary municipalities. When added to the 728 that will disappear when the county councils are closed, at the request of the Right, it will disappear altogether around 3,300 local politicians in Norway — with the Right Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e738	The Council of State’s previous reference — and we were confirmed today — was that the Court’s two-level model would lead to a reduction of 728 local politicians. The second relationship the Council of State addresses is a completely different discussion, namely the discussion of the municipal structure of the country. The challenge of the country's municipal structure is similar to that of the Council of State model with three further levels, as with the Right model with two levels. However, local democracy is not measured in the number of politicians in local governments and county councils either, because if one does not have real power – and it makes a difference – local democracy actually rots. Therefore, the Right will give the City Council representatives more power by assuming the tasks and tasks of the county council. Besides, our decentralization doesn't stop there. We also have to give more power to the individual citizen. In Right Norway, there are actually 4.6 million more local politicians. The problem for the Council of State is that she has to scare those who don't even believe in her own model, to come up with fake numbers for Right Models. I have to repeat the question: what about the Right Two Level Model that will give 3 300 fewer local politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e749	This is simple math. The right-hand side says they want to get rid of the county level. This means that 728 state politicians disappear. I understand that the representative, Mr Höie, does not dispute that either. That's the way it's going to be. In addition, the fact that party leader Solberg has said that she wants to reduce the number of municipalities in Norway by a place between 100 and 150. If we assume that the Right just wants to get rid of 100 municipalities – not 150 as it has been suggested – that means you will lose 2,600 local politicians. Then I agree with the representative, Höie, that local democracy is not measured in the number of local elected representatives. But at the same time, there is no doubt that the number of local ambassadors involved in local democracy has to do with what real opportunities people have to influence their local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e756	Once again, the Council of State confirms that there is no link between the two-level model of the Right and the claim with which the Council of State travels around the country and the beach, that the two-level model of the Right will provide 3 300 fewer local politicians. What the right has said in this matter is, in fact, exactly the same as the Governor of the Council of State, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, said to the country's rapporteurs at the last rapporteur's meeting in the KS. Once again, the Council of State has not been close to documenting its claims, and this is not the first time. On 18 January last year, the Council of State had to reply to its claim that the municipalities had been fed during the previous government. Her answer was a recognition that the municipality complex in 2004 was the best since 1997. Then the council had to reply again on 6 April to its claim in this room that when the municipalities had good results in 2005, it was because they had cut off the municipal services. Her response shows that the municipalities had increased service production in 2005 and that the good result was due to a better economy. My question to the Council of State now is: How many more times does she have to meet in this room and refute her light-hearted association with the truth before she seems to be getting fluttered?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e763	Now the representative Höie gives a completely wrong picture of my performances in Stortinget. Of course, there is no problem with significant growth, for example: in the municipal sector, a year, if one has previously cut all the brakes and clothes that can hold. But I haven't said that it's necessarily the two-tier model that will lead to the disappearance of 3,300 local politicians. I have said that this is the combination of getting rid of the county council and reducing the number of municipalities, which will lead to a number of these sizes – probably more if it's right that the Right will stand firm by getting rid of almost 150 municipalities. But when that is said, there is no doubt – from my point of view – that implementing a structure in Norway where you have two levels, in practice, will lead to a massive community merger. Something else is not practical manageable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e768	There will obviously be a need for more questions to the Council of States.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e777	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: «Riksvej 460 in the municipality of Lindesne is a heavily trafficked road. Business activities at GE Healthcare and tourist inflows to Lindesne Light are a major burden on the road. The municipality itself wants to build a new walking and cycling path. However, since it is the State that owns the land, the municipality has been refused to borrow on the basis of the limitations of the municipal law. Will the Council of State take the initiative to remove the obstacles so that this heavily needed foot-and-mouth path can be built?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e786	Responsibility for the development of foot-and-mouth and cycle paths along the national road is a state responsibility. This has been determined by the Stortingen in the National Bike Strategy, which was developed in connection with St.melding. No 24 for 2003-2004 National Transport Plan 2006-2015. The Road Act also places responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the pedestrian and cycle path along the national road to the State. The municipal law does not allow municipalities to raise loans for actions outside their area of responsibility. This prevents municipalities from taking up loans to the pedestrian and cycle path or other infrastructure for which the municipality is not responsible. However, the municipal law does not prevent municipalities from prioritising the use of their own funds to finance the investments or property of others. The municipal law also allows municipalities to borrow in order to finance the accelerated development of state infrastructure. It is assumed that the municipality and the State enter into an agreement to fully reimburse the municipality's borrowings. It is my view that it will not be a good thing for municipalities to have the opportunity to raise loans for investments that others are responsible for, or investments that local authorities do not own. For the sake of the debt burden in the municipal sector, the access to loans by municipalities should be limited to investments owned by municipalities or linked to the services for which the municipalities are responsible. Local borrowings to other people's investments involve interest and repayment costs at the expense of local government's own service production. Therefore, the rules on municipal borrowing should not be changed in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e797	I thank you for your answer. In my opinion, this is a problem that makes local politicians, and not least the citizens of Lindesnes, feel incredibly frustrated. The municipality also has a responsibility to create a safe everyday life for its citizens. This way there's a huge amount of traffic. There are 1,200 tankers running to and from this factory, 1,080 of these cargoes flammable corrosive liquid, 1,500 trailers carrying goods, 440 employees plus 120 rents running back and forth – and if you add 70,000 tourists to Lindesnes Light, you realize that this is what you need. This municipality has the economy in order, so this will not be shifting the financial burden to other businesses or taking the money from other measures. However, to demand that this be taken from business resources is not a solution to this matter. My challenge to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State, together with Minister of Transport Navarsete, try to find a solution that will allow us to get a safe foot-and-a-bike path for the Lindesnes people?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e813	I ask for understanding that I do not know the specific situation along the way. 460 in Lindesnes, but it is not difficult to understand the frustration that people experience. I understand that this is a very busy road, which, no matter how you turn and turn on it, is very dangerous. Unfortunately, the situation is also elsewhere in the country, but it doesn't make the situation in Lindesnes any better. My advice to the municipality is simply that they need to engage in a dialogue with the State Road Administration to see if you can arrive at an understanding that means that the municipality is financing in advance, but that you have an agreement that reimbursement will take place in retrospect. That's the system we have. This is my recommendation to the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e820	I thank you for your answer. I also know that the representatives of the government parties in the part of the country are committed to finding a solution to this matter. I understand that this is not the only place where this is a problem, as the Council of State also said. However, the rapporteur, the children, the citizens and the road passenger tankers are asking that the municipality itself be allowed to make this road safer. The state will save money, and the municipality will take on the job, but they need to be allowed to borrow. I therefore hope that the Council of State and the Government, perhaps in cooperation with others, will help to find a practical solution to this path. I take with me what the Council of State has given to the Southerners. But I think as politicians we really would have earned not to let us stop these formalities, but also show that here is the political will to find good solutions – not just let us stop by principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e829	In some areas, we need to have some principles, and we need to make sure that municipalities do not get into an impossible debt situation. I believe that through the system that is established, we have opened up the possibility of finding practical solutions. So the municipality can borrow on the condition that you have an agreement with the State Road Agency for reimbursement. I hope and believe that one should be able to find a solution through the system that we have today. I therefore recommend, as I have already said, that we contribute locally to a good process on the rails.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e838	This question, from the representative of Bjørg Tørresdal to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, who is directly responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e841	‘In state and public institutions, there are job vacancies independent of location and distance. So the tasks to be carried out do not depend on the location of the place of work. A clear lead from the political team to ensure that such positions in the organisation of NAV should be added to district municipalities in the different counties/regions is a rigorous territorial policy instrument. Do the Council of State agree to this, and will the Council of State follow this up in relation to the NAV reform?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e848	The size decided unanimously in the autumn of 2001 to ask the government to address the issue of a single social, labour and social security unit and to present the matter to the Stortinge in an appropriate manner during 2002. The main objective of the reform would be to bring more people into and back to work, through more holistic and comprehensive approaches from the various levels. The Government of Bondevik II followed up the case through St.meld. No 14 for 2002-2003 and St.prp. No 46 for 2004-2005. In St. prp. No 46 the Bondevik II government writes that the objective of labour and welfare policy requires a comprehensive reform policy, where the establishment of the labour and welfare seat is an essential element. As regards the issue of organisation internally in the establishment, it is said, inter alia.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘In view of the efficient use of resources and the adequate competence and quality of the process, a number of functions within the State budget that do not require user proximity are performed through regional specialisation and division of tasks, or are managed by nationwide entities. The efficiency gains achieved benefit users in a number of ways: better quality and faster handling, and not least by releasing resources for the essential task: user follow-up in the first line.» The current government has in its follow-up to the reform, among others. through the proposals in Ot.prp. No 47 for 2005-2006, the above considerations were taken into account. At the same time, it is important for the Government to ensure that the reform is implemented in such a way that it also contributes as far as possible to the achievement of the objectives of rural and regional policy. Localisation of State jobs is an important instrument of regional and regional policy, and this is reflected in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs’ circular, ‘Guidelines for location of state jobs and service production’. The Labour and Welfare Administration Act states that the Employment and Welfare Act and the municipalities should have joint local offices covering all the municipalities of the country. In addition, the seat of employment and welfare shall be represented in the locations defined by the Directorate of Labour and Welfare. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has presented proposals for principles for the organisation of the Working and Welfare Act. The Directorate has stressed that the overall structure of offices and units must contribute to the good geographical distribution of State jobs in the management of labour and welfare, while at the same time ensuring that employees who have to change places of work have to move as far as possible. The proposal includes, inter alia: the protection of personnel in the smallest NAV offices, the establishment of county special units for management and the establishment of five national special units for pensions. The organisation of the establishment must balance efficiency and user orientation, taking into account employees and regional and regional policy considerations. Although the Directorate of Labour and Welfare decides where the department is to be located, the Department will provide guidance for the principles on which its decisions are to be based.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e870	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is agreement on the intentions of the NAV reform, but the issue in this round is the organisation of this reform. In the Municipal Report of 15 February, former Social Minister Guri Ingebrichtsen expresses her fear of extensive centralisation in the organisation of the NAV reform. Tor Saglie, Director of Labour and Welfare, has said that one has the intention of withdrawing 1 400 employees from the Social Security and NAV offices and transferring them to 35 new special units. This fear of Guri Ingebrichtsen will lead to more centralisation of government employees in municipalities and districts. But that depends on where the special units stay. And my question is: will there be leadership from the Ministry that exactly these special units, which have remote jobs, will be added to the districts, or will the NAV budget be allowed to decide for itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e881	This is happening in dialogue between me and the state budget. Dryersdal is in some way right in that these are distance independent positions, but in another way she is very wrong. When her own party leader had the job I now have, he promised that all employees in NAV would keep a job in NAV. Thus, when we are now to localise these special units, we must take into account regional and regional policies. But we also need to take into account that we need to localise in such a way that the maximum number of employees in NAV can continue to work in the special unit that is being established. So we have to take into account commuter distances. We cannot locate these special units in NAV completely irrespective of where the special units are to be manned. Then we will get into the situation that we have hundreds, thousands, of insurgents as a result of the wise decision Højbrätten took against the employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e886	I thank you for the signals given here, that it will be taken into account, and that there will be leadership from the Government to add part of these special units to the districts – I see it that way. At the same time, I have to state in plain text that there are some people out there who are going to move from the districts, from the municipalities, and from the offices they're in today, to these new special units. Suldal and Sauda in Rogaland are municipalities that have applied for special units for services to be answered by e-mail and telephone. They have asked that instead of losing government jobs in the municipality, they get a special unit. Isn't it any more logical that that special unit is located in Ryfylke than that it should be placed in press areas like Stavanger and Sandnes?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e893	I don't want to go into concrete places. I will completely refrain from it. But it's important for me to stress that when you're going to set up special units, and it's also been for the Christian People's Party, these employees must come from some offices. There must be some municipalities that currently have government employees, who have to hand over some of the employees to the special units. If we don't, we won't. That's what you're agreed on. Then we're going to try to localise according to regional and regional policy considerations – and, yes, it's definitely going to happen. But in addition, we have to take into account that these employees should be able to commute to the new jobs as much as possible. That doesn't mean they have to be in the big cities. It's possible to commute from the big cities and out, and not just from the outside and in. The type of considerations must be given absolute priority, but there is a whole between regional and regional policies, user rights and human resources policies that need to be integrated. And I think that's what we're going to do in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e900	Then we go to question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e907	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Labour and Inclusion the following questions: ‘According to the NRK news on 28 February of this year. It appears that many children and young people have greater difficulties now than before the establishment of the NAV reform in providing assistance. According to user organisations, this is due to the misinterpretation by NAV of a spring 2006 circular. The objective of the NAV reform was to make everyday life easier for users, not more difficult. Will the Council of State take the necessary initiatives to clarify how the circular is to be interpreted, so that users are given the help and the means they are entitled to?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e916	In the context of new public protection laws in 1997, new circulars were developed for the whole of the law. In the following years, a circular in the area of tools was updated according to changes in rules and practices. However, many policy changes were not included in the circular, but help centres were briefed per year. letters. As a result, a new circular on the subject was found to be necessary by the current Swedish National Works Agency (Rikstrøgdeverket), which was published in June 2006. In order to be able to grant aid under Section 10-6 of the Law on Social Security, there must be sickness, injury or suffering, and the aid must be both necessary and appropriate in order to improve the functioning of the member in everyday life. The new circular is primarily a guide to the case handlers on how to understand these concepts. The purpose of the circular was solely to abandon the practice in question, not to establish a new practice. The decision-making authority in the application for assistance shall include, inter alia: Since 1994, children and young people have been in the assisted centres. The new circular focuses to a greater extent than in the past on the intentions of the law, but without this leading to increased demands or restrictions. In addition, the circular did not lead to a longer period of proceedings. Paragraphs 10 to 17 of the People's Security Act and its related regulations limit the responsibility of the People's Security Act for, among others. instruments against rights deriving from other legislation. The current Rikstrygdeverket issued a circular to this paragraph in November 2005. Here you will find a briefing on the responsibilities for, among others. the training law, the Local Health Service Act and the Social Services Act. These laws will to a large extent guide the responsibility of the people in terms of assistance for children and young people. This circular is also limited to current practice and does not lead to aggravating requirements or restrictions. However, it cannot be ruled out that such a circular has led to increased awareness among assistance centres as compared to the fact that the case is also to be considered under this provision. These circulars — and practices — have been continued by the Working and Welfare Session before 1 July 2006. There is no reason to argue that the NAV reform has brought about any change in the rights of children and young people to tools or in the practice of this legislation. The Working and Welfare Session is occupied with feedback from users and has therefore agreed with user organisations to establish a quality channel. It's now being developed. The quality channel shall be a feedback system from the user organisations to the Working and Welfare Session, initially in the area of tools. The channel shall be used to record, comment and feedback at the level of the Work and Welfare Session in order to increase the level of transparency of adverse or unintended outcomes, important issues, etc. in the area. Together with user organisations, the Working and Welfare Act will use these recordings to improve, among others. services and user assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e929	I thank you for your answer. Once again, social security legislation is a complex piece of legislation – and then we have a reform that many users naturally expect. According to enquiries I have received, parents with disabled children have contacted NAV for example. to get a pult in school. NAV can't help it, but if they're talking about home, i.e. doing homework at home, they can help. This makes many parents feel quite unreasonable, asking themselves some questions. Does not the Council of State also believe that users need clarification and better information about their rights, so that they can get the necessary help when they need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e936	I agree that there is no doubt that many disabled people, and not least parents of disabled children, face major challenges in being able to learn about the system. I very much agree that we must work with such a general declaration of intent. I also have a plan to address these questions, without wanting to announce that plan here and now. It is important to be aware — when it comes to aids in school, for example: a pult – that the primary school is the responsibility of the municipality, and under the Training Act, it is the responsibility of the municipality to ensure that the place of work that you have in the school is in order. However, when it comes to means of home and leisure, etc., it is the state that is responsible through the rule of public order or by means of NAV. But the important thing is that the parents don't have to walk this loop all by themselves. Then the municipality and state have to be able to coordinate, so that the parents get the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e945	I thank you once again for your answer. In relation to what the council said in its first answer, I'm glad that he's now setting up a group where users are also represented, to look at ways you can customize the system and make improvements. Unfortunately, some users experience that 25 new NAV offices have led to the case handlers being less accessible than before. It's harder to get hold of them. It is felt that it has become a more bureaucratic system, while the NAV reform should lead to the opposite. Then the Council of State also says that he has some plans that he will not announce now. In order not to make users feel that this goes from bad to worse, I would challenge the Council of State to the following: What immediate measures will the Council of State take in addition to setting down such a group, in order to get better and more positive experiences from users regarding the new NAV reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e954	It is a little difficult to relate to the claim that some users of these new NAV offices say so. Every user is important, so I respect that we have to have an ambition that everyone should get a better offer, but we have not carried out any evaluation relating to the 25 offices to measure whether it goes in the right direction or the wrong direction, or how it goes. Of course, we're going to do that gradually, and we're going to learn from the mistakes we're making in a demanding start-up phase. But what's important to me is that after 1 July 2006, when we set up the Directorate of Labour and Welfare, that is to say, the Rikstrygdeverket and Aetat, the national figures show that the waiting time for help has fallen. So it's obvious that not everything could have gone wrong. Now it is going to be nationwide, so I am very impressed with the result, which is that NAV has done it, while at the same time setting up the organisation that is so demanding to get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e959	We go back to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e966	I allow myself to ask this question to the Minister for the Environment: ‘The County of Akershus has given the Municipality of Frogn the opportunity to open up to the development of a total area of 825 dekar in Nordskog, a continuous and temporarily untouched green area in the municipality of Akershus which has a minimum free space per. the population. Will the Council of State be willing to take a step to ensure the green area referred to above, and instead allow the development of nutrition in the landfill at E6 on Horgen?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e975	Decision of the Ministry of the Environment on the objection concerning the regulatory plan for Section Horgen was in place on 13 November 2006. In the decision, the Ministry indicated that a section of the Horgen would appear to be a car-based ‘commercial satellite’ in an area which is not suitable for traffic and which, in the current municipal plan, is reserved for agricultural, natural and outdoor purposes. In the decision, the Ministry stressed that the planning of new areas for nutritional purposes should be carried out in the context of the revision of the area part of the municipal plan and in line with national and important regional interests. The Ministry referred to national policy guidelines for coordinated land and transport planning which aim to facilitate a comprehensive land-use planning that results in limited use of cars. Therefore, in line with the guidelines, new traffic-generating activities should be located in relation to the established construction zone and close to existing collective nodes. These principles are also enshrined in the Akershu County Plan for 2004-2007 and the Follo Council's intentions through the Development Agreement on Land and Transport Strategies for Follo. The issue of nutrient areas in Nordskog has been clarified through the area section of the municipality plan 2005–2017 for Frogn. The objections raised by Fylkesmannen in Oslo and Akershus and Akershus County Council were dismissed after agreement was reached at the mediation meeting on 5 February 2007. The plan has therefore now been finally adopted. In the conciliation meeting, the County Environmental Protection Department was pleased with the municipality's last draft draft plan, in which the relationship with the green regional corridor, wild game and open-air life has been adequately ensured. An important marsh forest area will be ensured and included in the regulatory plan and provisions. On this basis, it is not relevant for the Ministry of the Environment to intervene in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e990	I thank you for the answer, but I have to admit that it seems quite amazing. Once you've been in Frogn and seen the green area that's now going to be used for food development, and at the same time you've been on a road where it's possible to walk off a bus and reach the area collectively, it's quite amazing that one area is being protected as a stone's throw, while the other area is allowed to be reduced – from green area to nutrient development. I also think it is right to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that, when the matter was dealt with, the county council was not familiar with the collected signatures. Questions have also been raised as to whether a satisfactory impact assessment has been carried out in relation to the green area. It is very possible that all forms are technically in place, but in field studies the contrast becomes great. While the paving along the main road, which is easily accessible, must be protected and not allowed to be used for feeding purposes, the green area must be used for feeding. It's going to be a strange form of politics. Where it was possible to see things in a context, you don't. I want to ask questions if the Council of State doesn't see that this is a cross of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e999	It's clear that in a lot of planning things, different interests are slightly different. What has been important to see in this context is that very important matters that both the county and county council had in connection with the objection issue have been taken care of after the mediation meeting. It has now been resolved satisfactorily, and therefore it is not appropriate to go into the matter from my side. But it's quite right, as the representative Dørum says, in a lot of such cases, there are different interests and also dilemmas that often do not make it perfect, but there are different interests that are balanced against each other, and one finds a compromise that is satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1006	I thank the Council of State for its response, and I also take note that she has said what she has said. Then my comment is that it gets up to them locally who think this is a futility, to get their views out. And then it'll be up to the voters in Frogn municipality in the coming local elections to make sure that the futility is corrected. It's not up to the Council of State or signed to mean anything about it. But at least this is my strong opinion from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1011	I can only express the same point of view as Dørum. It is important that voters choose politicians who they think will solve the problems they have both locally and regionally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1020	I will ask the Minister for the Environment the following question: ‘The Council of State, in an inter-pelling debate on 30 March 2006, was very positive in view of the extension of hunting time. This has not been followed up. The new hunting seasons are the same as before, but extended hunting hours are open for application. Hunting times also discriminate against certain areas. later hunting than others. This is not compensated for by hunting days in retrospect. Why has the Council of State accepted a continued tight regime, discrimination, and that those who facilitate co-hunting are not guaranteed to receive applications for extended hunting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1029	The Directorate for Nature Management has recently revised the hunting time regulation and established hunting times applicable to the 2007-2012 hunting seasons. In the process of revising the regulation, the Directorate has been well aware of the desire of rightholders for a longer hunting period for elk and deer for administrative and commercial reasons. The Directorate has been committed to finding a solution that both facilitates good exploitation conditions for rightholders and serves the interests of other user groups, in particular outdoor and small game hunters. The Directorate has pointed out that small game hunters are deprived of the opportunity to hunt in some places, by not selling hunting tickets during the period of hunting elk and deer. Walkers also find that they are undesirable in the field when hunting elk and deer. The evaluation of the three-year testing scheme ‘Increased access to hunting’ showed that a relatively high proportion of walkers expressed some uncertainty when hunting deer game. Therefore, an undesirable consequence of longer hunting time may be that these groups use less markedly during the period of hunting elk and deer. Due to the uncertainty associated with the impact on other users of the outfield, the Directorate chose to empower the county officials to extend the hunting time when there is a need for stocking, management or business for extended hunting time. The municipality may apply for such extended hunting time. For moose, the hunting time may be extended from 1 November to 23 December and for deer from 15 November to 23 December. The Directorate points out that this is a significant extension compared to the previous hunting period. Through this solution, the Directorate believes that the wishes of the different groups of outreach users have been met. The rightholders have been given the opportunity to extend the hunting time of elk and deer, while ensuring that other users of the deer are able to carry out their activities. In the consultation of the hunting time regulation, the Directorate proposed a joint hunting time for elk from 25 September across the country. Due to the massive opposition in the hearing both from rightholders and other users of the outfield, the Directorate chose not to adopt this solution. The opposition was justified, inter alia, by: consideration of open air and grazing animals. I believe that the directorate, who has been given the decision-making authority in this matter, has made a balanced assessment of different considerations in the revision of the hunting time regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1044	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think in many ways this revision of the hunting seasons and the hunting hours is an example of how central thinking puts a damp hand over the community's ability to develop its resource base. Why could one not have turned the problem upside down and said that we know that the experience from the trial projects is good, and for those who then facilitate the co-habiting and facilitating of other users of interest, one should have a general expanded pursuit? Instead, restrictions should be imposed in the areas where there are conflicts – because there are some more densely populated areas. But in well over 90 pst. of the country there are almost no conflicts. So the principle of imposing restrictions on the whole country is that there are conflicts in certain small areas. I find it strange that the Council of State has not taken hold of and simply reversed that principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1051	I would like to emphasise that we have now given the municipalities the opportunity to apply for extended hunting time, the applications should be submitted from the municipality to the county. This ensures that municipalities and communities are involved in the treatment process, including through the different interest groups in the municipalities, because they are located both in densely populated districts and in the district of Norway. The fact that the municipalities can apply to the county ensures that the municipalities can take care of all the interest groups in the municipalities. In total, I think that through these new provisions, we have acquired and taken into account different interest groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1058	It is okay that you have been given the opportunity to apply for extended hunting time. But we know at the same time that there's also a lot of traditional thinking about this. Not many people have really started with what the Ministry of Agriculture has tried for 10–15 years now, to start economic development based on hunting. In local communities, too, these small conflicts exist between those who will protect the resources and those who will use them for active economic development and create jobs out in District Norway. So I really just want to repeat this: I had hoped that the Council of State might have taken advantage of the opportunity to address this, turn around the principles and say that expanded hunting should be available – the exceptions are when we have to impose restrictions on other user interests. So I really just want to encourage the Council of States to look at this again, and see if you can't turn around on the principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1067	I accept all the calls I get! Now we have set guidelines for this hunting period, but it is clear that in this case as in many other cases we are following developments. But I have to repeat that I think the directorate's revision of these hunting season regulations has become good, and that different interests and different considerations have been taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1078	My question is as follows: ‘In response to my written question of 16 November 2006, the Council of State decided that she would stand firm by removing the so-called Snøheimvegen, which leads into Snøheimhytta, at Hjerkinn. This determined the Council of State that she did despite a great local commitment to the preservation of the road from both the population and local politicians in four counties around the Dovreberg. In what way and at what cost will the Government physically remove the Snow Home Road?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1087	Snowheimvegen, between Hjerkinn and the former tourist cabin at Snøheim, is 14 km in total. Through the return of the Brain Shooting Field for Civil Purpose – what is called the Brain PRO – the way has been adopted. The terrain concerned shall be restored to natural formation and the vegetation cover restored by active measures to facilitate long-term natural processes. The physical implementation of the project Hjerkinn PRO is divided into two phases: phase 1 which runs from 2006 to 2012, and phase 2 which runs from 2013 to 2020. The use of Hierkin's field of defence is now being stepped down as the new Region Field of the East in Årkin is being implemented. Ongoing physical work in the return project in 2006 and 2007 is the clearing of explosive residues on areas where the defence has now ceased its use. The first removal of installations in the firing range is planned to start in 2008. The Snow Home Road is necessary for the physical execution related to the cleaning up of the Defender's field of fire at the Brain. The internal 4 km of the road, from Stridåbrua to Snøheim, shall be released during Phase 1 and will be removed by the end of 2012. The remaining 10 km of Snowheim Road is planned to be removed by 2020. Information obtained from the Defence Department shows that the total costs associated with the removal of the Snowheim Road are estimated at approximately 20 million. kr. This includes costs of pre-clearance of the road with regard to explosives residues, road mass removal, landscape formation and protection of mines used for road construction. These masses have quite a lot of copper in them and, as a result, have a potential for contamination. I would like to stress that this natural restoration project is quite unique in international terms and could be an exhibition window both for Norwegian nature protection policy and for the defence's desire and ability to clean up afterwards when they leave an area. For me, it is important to implement a project that contributes well to the re-establishment of the shooting area as winter and spring pasture for the wild rain in the Dovrefjell area, while also enabling it to be used in the future for outdoor activities and as a basis for the development and value creation of neighbouring communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1100	I thank you so much for the answer, although I am very disappointed that the Council of State did not take the opportunity to say that the government of Bondevik and the council of Hareide was wrong, and that the government has now found that this path can pass. The council replied, however, that she would spend 20 million. to remove this road, despite massive pressure from the local environment, from local politicians and from the population of mountain areas in the border regions between Tøndelag and Uppland and Hedmark. I think that's disappointing. Then I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: does not the Council of State fear that this behaviour towards the local environment in the area will lead to an increase in the level of conflict in future protection processes?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1109	I think it is important to stress that the decision made by the previous government was just a compromise between different interests, and I agree with the balance made by the previous government in this matter. The removal of this route is about the consideration of the wild train, which Norway has a special responsibility for international, and which it is important to ensure has good pastures and good areas both summer and winter. In addition, I would like to stress that the clean-up that is being done now also has another important aspect, namely that we have to clean up the explosives and the source of pollution that lies here because this has been a field of fire and has been used by the Defence. So it's a total solution that we've now found.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1116	I do not agree with all the conclusions of the Council of State, Mr Bjørnøy, but you can, for example, draw. Say that had it been so that it was the wild rain that was the argument in this case, you could have closed the road in the months of the year as there is wild rain in this area of Dovreberg, and then you could keep open in those parts of the year when there are tourists in the area, namely in the summer. I can't quite see that this is very hanging in the jump. I see that there is a desire to follow up the strong desire of the Federation of Nature Conservation to remove the road physically for reasons of principle. One of the few sensible things that the Bondevik government, the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the Labour Party agreed on last period was the mountain text, which was adopted in the revised budget in 2003, where it included: Tightens: ‘But there is room for more people in the mountains, and it is desirable that more people should be given the opportunity to experience mountain nature, both for the sake of health and well-being of the individual, for the sake of economic development in the mountain communities and to create greater legitimacy for measures necessary to preserve these values.’ My question, then, is: Does this continuous protection policy mean that State Council Bjørnøy wants to lead despite the wishes of local authorities? [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1131	You have to keep to your speaking time!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1134	I tried to say that there are several reasons why I believe that the assessment made by the previous government was good. It's about the consideration of the wild rain, we're here to remove gravel, which is a possible risk of pollution, and provide opportunities to increase the number of protected areas and extend the protection area. So there are several reasons why I think the balance that the previous government made is right. As I see it, there are no reasons why it should be reviewed in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1143	‘The climate challenges we face are very great, global warming is not to be avoided. This includes, inter alia: well documented in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s latest report. Norway has set a maximum target of 2C for global temperature rises. What is the Government’s strategy for climate adaptation measures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1150	The long-term objective of the UNFCCC is to stabilise greenhouse gas concentrations at a level that prevents dangerous anthropogenic impacts on the climate system. The government has made this concrete by working to keep the global temperature increase below 2C. This will require significant reductions in both national and international greenhouse gas emissions. I will come back to Stortinget in the spring with a separate message about measures to limit future Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. In parallel with the efforts to reduce emissions, however, we need to deal with the fact that we will experience major climate change in the coming century. The greenhouse effect is a fact, which is due to all greenhouse gas emissions that have already occurred since industrialisation. Society needs to adapt to these changes. Climate change will affect almost all sectors of society, at both national and local level. Different sectoral authorities, through their own legislation, are responsible for and able to adapt their activities to climate change. Many authorities, both nationally and locally, have already worked for a long time on the social adaptation to changes, including: through the spatial plans in accordance with the Planning and Building Act. Significant new knowledge on climate change has recently been developed. The latest IPCC report shows with greater certainty the major impacts of greenhouse gas emissions, among others. temperature, sea level and snow melting. Research projects have given us new knowledge of what changes we can expect here in Norway and in our neighbourhoods. The emerging knowledge is already being used continuously by both municipalities and government authorities in, for example: the road and water transport sector in their planning work. Although many authorities have already gone a long way in planning measures to meet the challenges posed by the changes, efforts to coordinate knowledge, awareness and cross-sectoral action remain. Therefore, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, I am now preparing to develop a broad strategy for adaptation to climate change. This strategy shall ensure that knowledge of climate change reaches all municipalities and relevant sectoral authorities and that we jointly implement the necessary measures to meet the major climate challenges we face.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1165	I thank you for your answer. We're vulnerable. The climate will give us some challenges. We get an increase in temperature, a damper climate, extreme weather or a more unstable weather, and this gives us some challenges in terms of social security, infrastructure and preparedness. It's a challenge all the time to be able to dimension social development so that we address the challenges we'll meet in a few years' time. I am pleased that the Council of State now says that she will come up with a broad strategy, which she is working with the Ministry of Justice, because the challenge is that this must be high on the political agenda. Then my follow-up question is: when will such a broad strategy be available? The Council of State says that it will be in contact with the municipalities and the sectors concerned. But how will the Council of State also inform everyone about such a broad strategy, so that we all take on the responsibility we have as active participants in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1176	I think it is important to see that, in terms of the climate challenges, both the challenges we face in relation to future emissions, and also the changes we need to make in the light of the emissions that have already occurred, we need to have a broad focus on this. There is not just one answer to the question asked by the representative. One is that we, as probably many people have, are already running a major climate campaign against everyone, to make even more people aware of the challenges we are facing. In addition, this strategy that we are working on is also about continuously implementing the knowledge we receive, in relation to planning and building laws, in relation to the municipality's spatial plans, in relation to transport, etc. So we need to continuously implement that knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1183	I then want to repeat my question as to when such a broad strategy will exist, before I go further in perspective. It is likely to be positive that Norway will get it warmer. Agriculture can produce more, we get more heat summers, but most likely this temperature increase will not give us any lasting good climate. But there's a point that we can experience some positive things in Norway isolated, while many in the big world will have a tougher everyday life. The sea level will rise, we will have heat waves, droughts and floods. We can manage to adapt to these challenges, but there are many countries and many people who are unable to meet such a climate challenge, and my question is: What will the Council of State do in the global context, so that Norway also takes on a leading responsibility for the challenges posed by climate change and climate adaptation measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1190	There were many questions the representative here withdrew. I just want to mention some of them cross-referenced. One, climate adaptation, is one of the themes discussed in the international climate negotiations, so that the problem of adaptation is at the heart of international contexts, where Norway has played an active role and will continue to do so. The second is that it's quite right as the representative says, that it's the poorest, the most vulnerable on this planet, which has the biggest challenges associated with the consequences of floods, droughts, etc., and which are also the most vulnerable in terms of access to both clean water and food, and therefore also the fear of being sent on the run in order to feed themselves. But I also want to say that we are probably facing some changes also in Norway, which we do not yet know the consequences of, and here I will come back to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1199	I will ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The Government’s Soria Moria Declaration states: ‘The Government will continue to work to reduce the number of forms [[...]] Why has the State Council not followed up the Soria Moria declaration with a reduction in the number of business forms?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1208	The government is committed to simplifying and facilitating business. Norway shall be a good country to engage in business. Our ambitions are to give business a significant reduction in administrative burdens. That is why we have three areas: through the Oracle work to provide us with a better decision-making base and better impact assessment through the creation of a large-scale monitoring and simplification project to provide us with an overview of the administrative burdens and to provide the basis for a simplification plan next year through the development of electronic services and Alton as the business portal to the public We have good results to show in the simplification work. In the last year, industry has reduced its form load by 98 years. This is working time that can be used for more value-creating work. In the last two years, there has been a decline of 679 annual works. The large decrease in 2005 was mainly the result of the multi-annual tax haven’s efforts for electronic completion and submission of a form. A year ago, the Stortinget discussed the Riksrevision report on regulatory simplification. The National Audit Office then pointed out that the reduction in the form load was only 2.9 pst. from 1998. I can today report that the decrease at the end of 2006 was 12.3 p.m. The bulk of the reduction in recent years comes from transition to electronic reporting. This shows that the government's commitment to Altinn as the business portal to the public is both correct and important. I would like to refer here to the Government's action plan on electronic services for business, which we presented in January of this year, and also to a follow-up to the big-time communication on ICT for treatment in Stortinget. Industry is the focus of users and their needs when continuing the fight against the form field. We have good cooperation with business organisations, which share this approach. Simplification is demanding and must be widely attacked.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1231	I thank the Council of State for the answer and I am pleased with the reductions that industry is experiencing because of simplification. It's clear that ALTINN and the electronic reporting make it much easier, and that's probably also where the savings are in the number of annual works. What is a fact is that the Soria Moria Declaration states that business forms should be reduced. In an interview with the Minister of Industry in the Evening Post, it appears that it has actually increased in the last year. In the same article, the Council of State says that business actually wants more forms. This is a contradiction with what we experience, among other things. in the Trade Committee. I would like to get the Council of State to confirm or confirm whether the business community wants more forms.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1238	The general comment from business is, of course, that they want fewer forms. And we want fewer forms. But sometimes businesses ask about measures that will lead to more forms, and that was the point of that opinion. For example, sometimes we can make sure that a form that does not need to be completed by everyone, but that everyone is required to complete, for example. are divided into two forms, which are more targeted towards the few who need to answer those questions. That way, many people don't want to use that form at all. But there may be two forms instead of one, although it is actually simplification. Last year, six forms were removed, and 27 new forms were added. The new forms were linked to ICT challenges that have not been relevant in the past and to the implementation of EEA legislation. However, in the case of workload, the 27 new forms led to two more annual works, while the six that were removed led to a reduction of four annual works – i.e. a reduced form load.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1245	I thank the Council of State for the answer. You can almost be a little surprised that you've managed in the past without so many forms. One may also ask himself the question of the need for all these forms. Will the Council of State take a critical look at the overall form field now experienced by industry? Six were removed last year, 27 new ones were added. It shows that there is only one increase, contrary to what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration. Business has also said that you want a reduction of 25 pst. of the number of forms by 2012. Will the Council of State meet the wishes of the business community? Or do you want to continue the line by increasing the number of forms you see now?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1250	The government will continue to work to reduce the burden on forms. That's what's important. For example, in the context of the tax reform and the need for shareholder registers, there was a significant increase under the civil government which was opposed to the form field. But as a result of the Storting decision, there were many more forms in 2004. So it's the result of political decisions. Our ambition is to reduce the form field and the number of forms. That is why we have now started a thorough examination of the loads that the forms entail. But first of all, we are focusing on the effective implementation of this, so that there is less real burden on businesses. We know that 2 pst. of today's forms lead to 87 pst. of the work. Then it is clear that we must first and foremost ensure that smaller annual papers are used on forms. One of the elements in it is, of course, to look at whether all forms that exist today are necessary. But this is a point where there's not a very big difference between the previous and the current government. We have a common ambition to reduce the form field.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1261	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘After the fall of the Hanekleiv tunnel, a study group was set up that has now submitted its report. In the Stortinges Question Time on 14 February, the Minister for Transport said that she would await the report before deciding whether a stand-alone roadside supervision should be established. The left considers that the report identifies the need for independent roadside supervision. Do the Council of State agree to this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1270	In several contexts, the representative Tende has asked questions and suggested that, on the basis of the Hanekleiva race, a stand-alone roadside surveillance should be established, which the Left Government put in until 2005, went against. She herself refers to a follow-up question she asked in Storting's Question Time three weeks ago, in addition to being one of those who produced a Document No. Eight proposals on the same thing. The Committee on Transport and Communications is scheduled to present its opinion on this proposal tomorrow and is due to debate the matter in the Stortinget on 20 March. I have several times, including by letter to the Transport and Communication Committee and orally in Question Time of the Stortinget, briefed that the Stortinget should be given full information on Hanekleiva-saka and be able to discuss all aspects of it. As it is clear from my letter dated 26 January 2007 to the Transport and Communications Committee, I consider that issues related to control and supervision are an important part of such a presentation to the Stortinget. It is therefore appropriate to discuss the establishment of roadside supervision in this context. As part of such a production and discussion, experience from other transport sectors as well as from other countries will be an integral part. In the same letter, I have also shown that the Government is planning to present such a case to the Stortinget in a joint proposal from the Ministry of Transport, which will be submitted at the same time as the revised national budget in May this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1279	I thank the Council of State for the answer. According to Jarlsberg Avis, the tunnel work continues south of Kopstad and on E18 between Kopstad and Gulli just like in the Hanekleiv tunnel. Under the same project leader, geologists are called upon only when the tunnelers consider it necessary. This was some of the criticism behind the fall of the Hanekleiv tunnel. Does the Council of State know about this? And in that case, does she think it's okay?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1286	I trust that the processes that take place around the construction of tunnels are satisfactory from the point of view of safety. Not least after the crash in Hanekleiva and the events there, I must stress that it has been carried out in several rounds of the state road system that this should be added to the weight. There is no reason to believe that this will not be done. I have not even followed the construction of the individual tunnel, it is not common for government councils to do so. But the information that is provided here and that has come through the media, of course, is quality assurance. I also need to make sure that the quality assurance required for the construction of these tunnels is made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1293	I thank the Council of State for that. The Minister for Transport has been criticised for the lack of transparency, among other things. by the Consulting Engineers’ Association. They want to put their expertise at the disposal, but the prerequisite for it is greater transparency on the part of the State Road Service. How will the Minister of Transport contribute to better interaction between the Road Administration and the industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1300	I call both the Association of Consulting Engineers, the Association of Machine Entrepreneurs, and – what is it called? – the organisation that organizes the major entrepreneurs for a meeting in my office on 21 February. At that meeting we had a very good debate. I invited everyone who was there to make written recordings after the meeting. The Association of Machine Entrepreneurs has done it, they've come with great performances in retrospect. Instead, the Consulting Engineers' Association has outsourced a press release in which they owe the Council of State to operate with closed processes. I find it strange in the light that they had all the possibilities to speak at the meeting, and that they have an open and standing invitation to a good dialogue in the future. In that meeting I also encouraged the parties to strengthen their cooperation with the Swedish Road Administration. I felt that it was connected to it, and that one should improve the cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1310	This is also a question to the Minister for Transport: ‘This winter Norwegian road users have experienced several situations in which snow and ice have created chaotic driving conditions on Norwegian roads, not only on mountain crossings but also on the main road network in the lowlands. The last example is the chaotic situation of E18 between Kristiansand and Grimstad in week 8. This has little to do with who breaks, but primarily with the framework, guidelines, control and preparedness associated with winter operations on the roads. What will the Council of State do to improve winter operation on Norwegian roads?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1319	First, on behalf of the Road Administration, I would like to express my regret for the hopes that arose on the E18 between Arendal and Kristiansand in week 8 of this year. The weather was quite peculiarly difficult with strong wind combined with great snowfall, and the current stretch of the E18 is relatively narrow and without good possibilities for snow storage and parking of the wrecked vehicle. Of course, it did not make the situation any better if poor car combinations without chains stopped and caused major problems for the breakers. Despite the difficult circumstances, I would like to stress that it is not acceptable for such critical situations to arise on the national roads. In the 2007 State Road Code of Allocation, functional contracts have been entered into. The Ministry here stresses the importance of following up the performance of the contracts, so that one achieves a desired quality of operation and maintenance. I know that the State Road Administration will go through the events at E18 in Agder, and I have also followed up with a new letter to the State Road Administration. What she did along the E18 will be carefully evaluated and reviewed in its full width. This includes contingency arrangements, performance of contracts and standard and quality requirements in the contracts, as well as the management of both contractors and the road network. The assessments and the review will be carried out in close cooperation with the contractors and the transport industry. I also ask more general questions about the system and the content of the functional contracts that were introduced by the previous government to reduce costs, as I get too many reports on smooth winter roads and poor breakage. I am aware that the State Road Service has measures in place that will have a positive effect. The State Road Service shall establish a crisis management system during the year. This system will help to increase preparedness, streamline crisis management and contribute to better governance of the Road Administration and its contractors. In a short period of time, the national road authority will also use a new computer system to provide better evidence of the work done, to ensure that road users are provided with the road and traffic conditions agreed in the contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1334	Computer equipment is good, but it is actually important to keep track of the weather reports and take notices that have been given in advance. It's actually that it's been cheating on the South Seas before. It actually snowed last year, and then the road – E18 – was closed. Now we're not talking about the snow that fell last year, but we're talking about the one that fell this year, with quite dramatic consequences. I'm a little questioning as to whether the State Road Service might again evaluate itself, and a little bit surprised that it seems that the State Road Service is busy blaming the contractors who have functional contracts. It is well the state road service that develops the contracts and that should ensure that they take into account that exceptional and special weather conditions can occur during winter. In other words, what you enter into the contract is essentially – and in my case – also delivered. But if you don't bring in relationships related to exceptional weather conditions, you can of course get a surprise. It's a little bit sad if you blame others and you're sitting with a part of the blame.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1345	I have per cent. Today no basis for claiming – I do not believe the representative Sortevik has the basis for this – that the functional contracts do not go high for snow in the South, and I have asked the State Road Service to go through the contracts. After all, it's a tradesmanship. The Council of State is neither an engineer nor a tradesman. I'll try to make the political assessments, but I'm forced to use my professionals to do the basic work for me. So today I don't want to owe either the State Road Service or the contractors. But I want to find out if it's that the functional contracts aren't good enough, because then we have to improve them. If they are good enough – if this is taken as a height – then it is the entrepreneurs who have not listened to the statement and done their job, and then they have to step up in their work. But I'm not looking for scapegoats, I'm just trying to figure out whether the system that we've just introduced is good enough, whether it's being followed up well enough, and whether the content here is satisfying or not. Messages come in from different parts of the country, not least from heavy transport operators, who may suggest that things can be done better. That's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1352	A thorough review is good. What's important to clarify is that there's two ratios here. One is that there are normal weather deviations within normal contracts under which operators and functional contract holders must, of course, comply with and deliver under. But then there are special weather conditions that are difficult to enter into prior contracts. Then there must be powers at the State Road Service, so that in a difficult situation – perhaps a bit of a crisis situation like the one we had at E18 – you can deal with this, that you can demand extra effort from those who have capacity, and that you also accept the bill, so that the bill for totally extraordinary and unreasonable weather conditions is not automatically applied to those who have functional contracts – that they remain and must pay for a little difficult weather conditions that you have not calculated when you have entered into a contract.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1357	Those of us who have been bidding in this country for a few years – and this has been done by both the representative Blackevik and I – know that it is snowing here, and that the snowfall can come abruptly, unexpectedly and in large amounts. If an entrepreneur delivers an offer of snow cleaning without taking heights for a meter of snow in a day, it's also strange. But – as I said – I will not criticize anyone for what has happened here, because I do not have enough grounds to do so. But I want to believe that if I was an entrepreneur and I delivered an offer of snow breakage, I would also think that there could actually be extreme amounts of snow in a day. However, when said, the requirement specifications should also include taking a height for that type of event. So here I have to get back to this case when we've gone through what happened down there, and also went through the functional contracts in general – if they're good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1370	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: «On Wednesday 21 February, the Signature Train traced off at Hallingskied and hit freight and passenger traffic on one of Norway's most busy long-distance routes, Bergensbanen, until Monday evening. What initiatives will the Council of State take, and what measures will it take to achieve optimum operational regulation even in the winter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1379	The track was closed at Hallingskied because a passenger train of type BM73, formerly known as the Signature train, entered a large string and traced off. The string axis was approximately 2.5 meters at the highest and about 25 meters wide, and it had been loose about 150 meters above the railway track. Within the area that had to be cleared in order to release other trains, there was a snowy amount of about 150 m3. That is why we talked about large amounts of snow that had to be cleared away before other trains could pass the race town. The main reason for the bana to remain closed for five days was that there was a storm in the mountain, with great danger of new snowslides in the racial area. The railway works chose to keep track closed and do not skip clearance until the weather became easier during the weekend. When it comes to the question of measures to ensure safety against the winter world, so that the railway can also run in the winter semester without too much closure, I can tell you that the railway system has put in place a system of state-of-the-art preparedness for precipitation and raspour hazards on Bergensbana. If set thresholds are exceeded, closing the path may result. In order to make this work, the Railway Agency has concluded an agreement with the Norwegian Geotechnical Institute, which draws up a speed alert. Limitations and possible derailment of the path have been introduced according to both NCI and Meteorological Institute weather forecasts and whether there is a need for clearing on the line. The railway system has then stationed a person in Finland in the winter half of the year who is responsible for coordinating the work on snow clearance. In the winter half, there is a system in place to ensure that before running trains across the mountain, a locomotive is running with plogs to ensure that the track is open. On the day of snowfall, a diesel engine with a large front plough and track trains were run 2 hours and 15 minutes before the passenger train entered the snowbed. In addition, one of the Railway Station’s work tractors passed the site 1 hour and 55 minutes before the passenger train entered the race and followed off. This day, there was no report of a major accident at Bergensbana, nor had the NGI provided a specific alert. The reason for this was that in a very short time the temperature changed from positive 2 C to negative 15 C. According to current estimates, there is a lot of evidence that the crash occurred after the work tractor had passed the race site. Otherwise, I can tell you that at Bergensbana there is work to build racial circles in the form of snowscrapers. In 2007, there's about 2 million. kr for this work, which is scheduled to be completed in 2008. For 2007, there is a total of about 19.1 million. kr to racial protection measures along the Norwegian network.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1393	I would like to ask you an additional question. This matter is not just about the difficulties in the winter. It is also about the fact that we were very happy that this did not lead to personal injury or death — fortunately. The Council of State has been confronted several times today with the breaking of roads and has been inclined to blame for the fact that this has been put at a competitive disadvantage, and that the agreements have not been good enough. There is at least no doubt here that this is a state responsibility through the Railway Agency. I note that state-owned Cargonett is also deeply concerned about the regularity, stability and reliability of its competitive activities. It is clear that stopping for five days, with normally six trains each way every day, means that very much goods are delayed. So I have to be allowed to repeat my question: What concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure that we do not get this kind of accident?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1402	It is difficult for the Council of State to prevent this from happening, but the Council of State has examined the background of the signature train versus the fact that it has been claimed that this train is not good enough. It is the Railway Authority that approved the Signature Train, or BM73 that it is no name, for traffic on Bergensbana in September 2001. Then a lot of tests took place. None of the tests recorded an alarming value relative to the actual use of the train. And the railway company thought and thought that in the situation that arose, there was no basis for saying that trains with heavier locomotives would be better off than the BM73 traction unit. The NSB has informed that they have other types of train equipment that can be inserted instead of BM73 if necessary. It does not have such a good standard for longer distances, and over a three-year period, the NSB shall change and upgrade the wagon material on all departures. Then the locomotive and wagons will be used with good comfort, and one will assess whether the BM73 can run on sections other than the Bergensbahna. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1409	The President asks you to stick to the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1412	I have to ask a supplementary question to the Council of State. I have a report here from the Norwegian Veritas, which was sent to the Railway Agency seven to eight years ago, dealing with the nature of these trains and the ability to deal with large amounts of snow. The Council of State refers to some trials carried out in Finland, which have also been described as unsatisfactory in meeting the challenges that exist. There are a lot of details in this report, and I'm not going to go into them all. But it must be possible either to adapt the Signature Train to Norwegian conditions or to change the navigational routines, so that we can use modern trainsets. Is the Council familiar with the report, and can she assure us that we will not experience that Norway's second largest city has been cut off from rail connections with the capital for almost a week?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1421	Following the information provided to the Council of State, tests were carried out by the Railway Authority in connection with the approval of the BM73 train which did not reveal any cause for concern. The axle load on BM73 is 18 tonnes. For comparison, the weights of El 17 and B7 vehicles — the second type running — are 20 tonnes. There was especially the danger of derailment and traction being tested against the use of the locomotive on the signature train. But – and I can complete what I did not get said in the previous answer – NSB will consider replacing the Signature train when they are going to deploy new trains within a three-year period. They will do so for reasons of comfort and security. So this thing will be followed up by NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1432	I have the following questions for the country's Minister for Transport: ‘The work on the new E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand is now under way due to: requirements for needs assessment [[KS1]] What can the Council of State do to ensure that the deployment of E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand is not delayed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1441	The Government has followed up the decision in Stortinget under the Government of Bondevik II to carry out external quality assurance of design choices, known as KS1, for road projects costing more than 500 million. kr. The government has exempted road projects starting from construction in the period 2006-2009 and for some road projects with possible start-up in the period 2010–2013. The derogation for the period 2010-2013 includes: undertaken due to the fact that several of the projects have come a long way in planning according to the planning and building laws. The government has decided to implement KS1 on the route from Grimstad to the state border between Telemark and Westfold. There is no approved plan for the Arendal-Tvedestrand route, which will be part of the quality assurance for the longer route. KS1 is an important first part of the planning of E18 on the whole route through Telemark and up to Grimstad in East Agder. For the Arendal-Tvedestrand section, the work on the municipal plan and the impact assessment will start after the implementation of the KS1. The state road authority expects to have developed the basis for a KS1, a draft currency settlement, and to have completed the hearing of the document by March 2008. The Ministry assumes that KS1 will be completed before the NTP 2010–2019 notification is submitted for treatment in Stortinget. This means that the implementation of KS1 will not delay the project, as requested by Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1454	I thank you for your answer. It has been working to put in place the Arendal–Tvedestrand E18 route for about 40 years, and it will soon have to release this 20 km long, very poor and road-hazardous route in the South. It would be very damaging if these new KS1 requirements were now to delay the Arendal-Tvedestrand project further for many years. If I understood correctly, she said this should not delay the progress of this project. The implementation of municipal sub-plans is required during 2007. It is difficult to get these plans into port if you want to do so at the same time after the KS1 investigations have been carried out, because it takes about. A year, as far as I'm aware. Is it possible to run these projects in parallel, so that nothing is delayed? How does the Council of State think this can be done now, as it should not be delayed?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1465	E18 from Arendal to Tvedestrand is part of route 3. The state Road Service has proposed the route in priority group 2 in the tribal road section. The municipal planning work started in May 2006 but was immediately stopped for the KS1 project on 11 September last year. Work on community plans and impact assessments will take time. Regardless of KS1, the municipal planning work will take time. So the KS1 work in isolation, as laid out by the Department's side, is not going to delay the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1472	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Can I see the answer from the Council of State so that there is now an opportunity for the E18 road section, between Arendal-Tvedestrand, during 2013? As far as I understand the Council of State, it should now be possible to avoid unnecessary delays as we have seen due to demands for municipal sub-plans and not least these new requirements in terms of quality assurance – these KS1 requirements. Can the Council of State confirm that there is now a certain opportunity to get this road project – these 20 km between Arendal and Tvedestrand, which is a bottleneck and a mule on our main road network in Sørland – in port by 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1481	This is the case, I think it might be difficult to get the plans completed. The work on the municipal plan and the impact assessment will probably take several years, after I have been informed. For this reason, the distance will hardly be up to date before 2013. At least that's the information I have. But the quality assurance itself will not be decisive, and that is what this question was initially about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1486	Question 13 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1493	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The situation in Agder Police District is still mentioned in the media. Police officer Hareide, in a letter to the Police Directorate, has shown that Agder police district has had to cut down 40 police posts because of this. the pressured resource situation. In addition to the resource allocation model, Hareide refers to high rentals in the Tinghuset in Kristiansand. Does the State Council consider that police districts have less resource access than is the case for other districts of the country, and what is the historical development of economics and jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1502	Let me first give the honor to the questioner who addresses this question. I am also familiar with the newspaper debate that has been on this very question, and as far as the treatment the asker has received by asking these questions and moving into this matter in the way that the representative Klungland does. I am convinced that it is precisely the approach that the representative has taken both externally in the media and through this issue, which could help to strengthen our activity in Agder as well. The police districts are allocated an annual financial framework from the Police Directorate for their activities. The allocation takes place using a resource allocation model, which was used for the first time in 2005. The criteria are regularly updated. According to the Police Directorate, Agder was allocated 347 million. kr for the 2007 financial year. In addition to the calculation based on the resource allocation model, the police district is allocated well 23 million. kr. This represents a substantial additional allocation compared to the other police districts. Some police districts are just below the distribution model. Over the period 2002-2007, the police district has increased its budget by 74 million. kr. The bulk of the increased appropriations is compensation for wage and price increases. The largest increase in the budget was given to the police district in 2003, with a budget increase of 29 million. kr. Of great interest it must be that of this amount would be 10.8 million. kr to cover increased rent for the police building in Kristiansand. It is the police director's opinion that Agder police districts have had and have satisfactory budgetary frameworks compared to the other police districts of the country. But, in line with all the other police districts, there is absolutely a lot to do and a lot of undiscovered crime, which is the basis for the Government to continue to invest in strengthening police districts, including Agder. In the context of police reform and the establishment of the new district, Agder’s police districts were given reduced tasks and, therefore, the employment rate was reduced accordingly. This concerned the transfer of Sirdal Länsmannskontor to Rogaland Police District, the closure of the Land Sub-System, the reorganisation of the PST and the withdrawal of two police masters positions, respectively in Arendal and West Agder. With the exception of these posts, there was no reduction in the number of posts at Agder Police District in the context of police reform. During the conversion of civil tasks to the basic plan, some changes were made between 2005 and 2006. Agder then received nine years' work from the District Court/substitute. For those posts and for 16700 cases — debt regime, coercion and settlement councils — the district was allocated 10.5 million. kr. Police districts are no longer given posts, but a framework budget that the police chief has made available in line with leaders from central police and his own priorities in order to achieve the best possible police service. This means that a local person has to assess whether the money is best used for pay or, for example, for pay. material. According to estimates from the Police Directorate, Agder had 538 posts at the turn of the year. This is an increase of 13 jobs from 2002. In the case of police-trained personnel, Agder has reduced the number from 424 in 2002 to 409 at the turn of the year. This is considered to be a normal reallocation within allocated budget limits. The police districts achieve good results – I would say very good results – in many areas of the resources available to the police district. Agder may be one of the police districts where you're actually close to the crime that the government thinks you should be close. The police district has, among other things: as an example of this focused on violence in close relationships and has revealed more family violence than any other district, next to Oslo. It's about the police being close to the most vulnerable of us and not necessarily appearing in a public image when you're dealing with this type of crime. This is an area that knows the Government and I'm very concerned that we're going to do something about it. The police district has a decline in the recorded crime crime rate of 4.9 p.m. The decline in winning crimes is most marked with a decrease of 9.1 pst. The decline has been going on for several years, and I allow myself to credit some of the credit for that decline, among other things. the significant efforts of many police officers and women, as well as a skilled police officer, in Agder. However, body injuries and body damage have increased alarmingly in the last year by 9.1 pst. Much of this is due to nightlife violence and requires special efforts from the police, not only from them, but also from local authorities, businesses and others. Finally, the procedure for resolved crimes is 83 days. The trial period for young offenders under 18 years of age is 37 days, and these figures are well below the Riksadvokat deadline, which is 42 days. For acts of violence, the trial period is 74 days, and there we have a term of 90 days from the Advocate General. These are very good results from Agder. The percentage of crime cases is 40.7 pst, which is higher than what we see in many other places in the country, which is well above the national average. We must be able to say that the district of Agder gets things away and has no leftovers. There is good reason to pay tribute to the considerable efforts made in the Agder police district.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1539	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice both for the praise and in particular for providing the facts that he is doing now. The media debate and the storm that has been in the Agder police district have just gone on to try to blame big business, government and granting authority, because you've been in a special situation. This is why it is important to provide the facts to which the Minister of Justice now refers, so that we can continue to work together politically, both centrally and locally. Then the factual basis is very important to bring with it. I am pleased that it is now being prepared – I hope for all – so that we can move forward in this work and put the responsibility where the responsibility lies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1546	I agree with that. At the same time, I am very pleased that many rapporteurs, and also the Council of Appeal, are so committed to creating more security in Agder. It's a prerequisite for us to focus on how important it is to solve crime. So I welcome the recordings that come from there. I think that is a prerequisite for us to be able to take action in Agder, too, and that, when future budgets are laid down, we should also strengthen the police in Agder, which we have ambitions for. This strengthening is based on the fact that the Klungland representative has just helped focus on what to focus on, so that we get the right facts, but we also need to focus on actually delivering good results. There must be an incentive to further strengthen the police district. It is much more rewarding to strengthen police districts that deliver good results, and that also dry priorities differently. That's what Agder police district does. It is clear that conducting such an active investigation of family violence has cost, but it should also pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1553	I am also very pleased with the good results the police district has in terms of clarification and getting away from matters. But what has been the political discussion and discussion outside of people – mainly in West Agder, as I know – is that the police have not been visible. At the same time, the police director now says that one should be committed to reducing everyday crime. By that I don't think you're going to see the police at all times, that the police are going to be there, but there have been situations where it hasn't been possible to get hold of the police when people need it. I think it must be a prerequisite that the police are there when people need it. The option will be a privatisation of the legal work done by the police. Does the Minister of Justice agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1560	Yes, I agree. Driving a criminal policy is about having more thoughts in your head at once: the police must appear outside, while it must be visible to quite hidden groups, among others. the children who are subjected to violence in close relationships, where Agder police districts are very well cutting. That is why I believe that the debate that has been conducted by both the rapporteurs in Agder and the Agderrådet is very important and very correct. But while going high on the track – that’s good – we also have to operate with a fact that’s right. We are responsible for all of Norway and distribute resources in the police districts. We have to make sure that we distribute the resources fairly and correctly. There are elements in the situation in Agder that call for increased attention. It is primarily that good results are presented and have been properly prioritised – as I said before – but it is also important to bear in mind that we want to maintain a visible police in the streets. Not least, we also need to look at the extent to which we are under pressure from different types of crime. Of course, we will also do that in the future when assessing both the distribution model and the specific grant to Agder.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1575	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The civil defence has undergone a significant conversion. In recent times, claims have been made by the media about the failure of control procedures in the civil protection system. Can the Council of State assure us that procedures are being reviewed and that the necessary measures are being taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1584	Yes, I can assure you. Civil defence, as the representative Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen says, has undergone a significant change over the last few years. The reorganisation of civil protection was initiated on 1 January 2004. This meant that 40 civil defence circles under the police officers and three schools under the former Directorate of Civil Protection were converted into a maritime regional establishment with 20 civil defence districts, all subject to the new Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, established on 1 September 2003. The conversion resulted in the addition of 20 new district managers, 14 of whom were recruited outside the establishment. During the reorganization, a crew reduction was imposed in civil defence at 55 years of age. The amendments imposed, both for civil protection and for the Directorate, have been implemented within the budgetary framework, according to specified timetables and with successful results. The reorganization of civil defence is being evaluated this year. I want to add that the civil defence forces are increasingly being used to reinforce the emergency situation and other authorities' efforts in the event of major accidents and other incidents. There's a big job going on. In 2006, nearly 3000 people were required to work at 400 different events. Civil defence efforts in, for example: The forest fire in Hedmark in June 2006, when approx. 700 crews and officers made up the deciduous heaviest fire resource, can be a good example of this. I would also like to mention the considerable effort of civil defence during the snowfall in the South recently and during the power surge in Steigen a few weeks ago. The weather situation and the climate challenges make it no less topical to have a well-equipped civil defence in the future. It is a great political responsibility. In 2002 and 2003, the school of Civil Protection was refurbished at Starum, and the Riksrevision pointed out in its report for the financial year 2003 that construction contracts were awarded without prior competition. As a consequence, the DSB decided to initiate an external investigation. The studies were conducted by Deloitte in 2004–2005. The report revealed a number of serious breaches of the Public Acquisitions Act and lack of/deficiency management of projects. In order to ensure that future purchases would be made in accordance with the applicable legislation, centralisation and coordination of the procurement function of the activities were carried out. Purchases are currently carried out by lawyers with practical experience in public acquisitions. New procurement procedures and framework agreements have been put in place and considerable attention has been paid in recent years to the procurement of activities through, inter alia: training and focus on ethical behaviour. So the National Audit Office has been involved in this case, and it has caused many of the changes that have been made to these procedures. Then there has been a process since the 2004–2005 report, which involves quite concrete changes in purchasing practices, including: by DSB. In addition, there has been a process of publication of this report. It is decided by the Ministry of Justice that the report should be public. I think that is an important principle – but publicly in anonymised form. What is important in the report is public, so that all actors who wish to do so are given transparency. As a result, during the month of January in contact with the Directorate, further examination of the issues identified in the report has been carried out, as well as other factors that have emerged. It was in January, before it appeared in the media, this was initiated, in good dialogue with the directorate. I believe that the Director of the Directorate has had a good hand in the review that is now to be carried out, in order to further address these issues. I am also pleased that the employees and the trustees, together with the management of the directorate, have been able to gather on a mandate for this review. As far as I know and know now, it is out of tender who will receive the audit assignment. There should be no doubt that what has emerged from the claims concerning the management of the Community's resources is to be secured against, so that the resources are managed for the best of all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1601	I thank the Council of State for the answer. As the Council of State points out, civil defence is an important piece of protection both for people and for fairy in many situations. Such matters that are addressed in the media are constantly difficult both for employees and for the civil defence's own part in relation to rumors. I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice has taken up the matter, and that he follows it up in the way he here sketches. I hope that, in the future, we will not meet this matter again in the media, so that we damage the reputation of civil protection even more. So I'm satisfied with the answer the Council of State has given, and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1610	Just cards: I thank you for your trust. I feel that the directorate has arranged very well now so that we will not get any more such episodes, where it is actually purchased on the wrong premises. I believe that the review now to be carried out is the only way we can remove any doubt about the procedures that are actually now and that have also been in the past. Then we'll be careful to pass any judgment, which I don't realize the questioner does, when it comes to what has happened, and leave it to the investigators.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1621	I will ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘A survey conducted by the Norway Barometer shows that 52 pst. Norwegian municipalities do not have emergency plans. When we see more and more examples of local extreme weather and crises, there is reason to be concerned when more than half of Norway’s municipalities do not have emergency plans. What is being done to make municipalities adopt emergency plans and will the Council consider new measures to increase the number of municipalities to adopt emergency plans?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1630	This is an extremely important issue, also in relation to the previous issue of local crises. It's important for two reasons, and we need to talk more about it, also here in the Storting. First of all, as the questioner's intention is, we need to get more municipalities to take this work seriously, so that you stand rusty. Then it is important in the sense that we see that the municipalities that have already planned well deliver very well in crisis situations, it works. It's the local, the close, that can just deal with any crisis, small or big, not always alone. Then we see that the proximity to the crisis, and the responsibility that you then have according to the principle of subsidiarity, contributes to the resolution of the crisis in a very good way. We have a lot of good examples of that. Norwegian preparedness is based on the principles of responsibility, equality and proximity. Therefore, Norwegian municipalities form the base mountain of our national preparedness. It is of the utmost importance that each municipality be aware of its responsibilities and provide adequate analysis of its own risks and vulnerabilities, as a basis for updated contingency plans. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness carries out annual systematic monitoring of emergency status in the municipalities. I can tell the questioner that we had a meeting with the directorate – it was at the bottom of a week ago – where this topic was put on the track, just to see what we can do to get more municipalities to contribute. In addition, on behalf of the Directorate, the county officials supervise the emergency work of the municipalities. I believe that we in the government and I, as ministers, also have a responsibility to the statesmen to put this on the agenda, in the light of what the questioner is now addressing. The Directorate's overall overview of vulnerability and preparedness in society, including: through the annual Community survey, despite all the positive developments. The municipal survey published at the turn of the year includes 383 of the country's 431 municipalities. This one shows that the entire 99 pst. the municipalities now have a crisis management plan in place. These plans may cover several different crisis scenarios. All 93 pst. of the municipalities, stating that they have exercised their plan in the last years. So many as 95 pst. have in place an information preparedness plan. This overall impression is confirmed in all material respects by the supervision of local authorities’ work on social security and preparedness. It's reassuring. At the same time, the overview shows that there are clear improvement points. It is therefore my clear intention to contribute to the primary responsibility of the municipalities of the country, so that municipalities can put in place formalised and politically anchored emergency plans for current crisis scenarios. I will therefore continue the systematic work on social security and preparedness for local, regional and central government. Through the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, I have made it clear the importance of focusing on the consequences of extreme violence in the dialogue with central, regional and local authorities. It is, among other things: through its 2007 mission, point 55.1, made it clear that the county should have an overview of key societal security and preparedness challenges related to specific risk areas and climate conditions. Through the supervision of local authorities, we also draw attention to the importance of up-to-date emergency plans and exercises in municipalities to meet the challenges of extreme weather. In addition, I would like to contribute to empowering measures for municipalities. The Directorate for Social Security and the National Training Centre for Social Security and Preparedness provides a wide range of courses for municipalities on spatial planning, preparedness planning and crisis management. I think that's important. The Directorate has further developed a Community preparedness counsellor and will be revised to adapt to new societal vulnerability challenges. In addition, new information preparedness and crisis communication guides are developed. Furthermore, the community shall contribute to the continued intensification of the practice of the municipalities. In particular, I am concerned that it is also being practised across the municipal borders. An emergency plan that is not practiced is almost worthless.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1647	I would like to thank you for a good response from the Council of State. It is a fact that in recent times extreme violence has come very surprising to many, and to many municipalities. I can only mention the hurricane 'Narve's herrings in Finnmark last January. Then the whole county was darkened because of the terrible power grid we have in the county. I can also mention all the snow that last week fell on the South, where it didn't seem exactly as well prepared for such large amounts of snow. My next question will therefore be: Will the Council assess the legalisation of emergency plans in the municipalities as a response to more emergency plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1656	Before we now consider more legal requirements for Norwegian municipalities than those we already have, I believe that one of the most important things we can do is the measures that I clarified in my answer. What's going on is skills enhancement, I think, is very important. It creates an arena to make the municipalities actually realize that this is important. If you invite me to a training course on emergency plans, it's nice to go there if you don't have a contingency plan. I believe that getting the county officials to be very vigilant in their contact with Norwegian municipalities and to be equally eager to list those who should not have such emergency plans, as has been the case with municipalities on ROBEK lists – or whatever it may be – is crucial. I think we'll be able to achieve a lot by also making it easier for more municipalities to practice, and then you're totally dependent on a plan. So our intention is that we should be able to get far in terms of contingency plans before we go in for further legal requirements than those we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1663	Thank you for this answer too. The last question is this: The power crisis in the Styria in Northern Ireland challenged preparedness. The municipal authorities had adopted a contingency plan in 2006 and the municipal preparedness functioned reasonably well. However, the crisis challenged significantly more State sectors and monopolies. In the evening post on 26 February, we can read that the Central Party will put an end to the county office, and one of the reasons for this is: with certainty. The county has a coordinating responsibility for civil protection in the counties, and assistance to the municipalities is at the heart of the county emergency work. Has the Council of State considered how security and preparedness work should be organised if the Central Party is able to take effect in order to bring down the county office?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1674	I guess I really have my full rent thinking about how we can do the job within the limits we have today. I must say that I am very pleased with the role of the statesmen in this work. There may be many who are not aware of the work done by the statesmen every day, and the significance that the statesmen have for this particular sector. You don't realize it until it's too late. I believe that we have good opportunities through the statesmen to get good results from this, because, as the questioner just pointed out, it does a very good job when you have a good plan and practice. Then we see that many municipalities stretch much further in such situations, and perhaps contribute far beyond what you could have expectations about, to help your own population. It's a good Norwegian tradition. In this way, I believe that the statesmen, as the system is today, have a very important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1685	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘On 16 February, the Official Journal of the European Union held a case in which it was found that the EU is in the process of establishing a new major police cooperation based on the Prüm Treaty, in order to combat terrorism without Norway having so far notified its interest. The Norwegian police want to participate, but the government has not decided. The Council of State does not see the need for such Norwegian participation in the international fight against terrorism, and when can we expect the Government to decide whether Norway will participate in this important police cooperation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1694	I would like to start by informing you that the Prüm Treaty was concluded on 27 May 2005 between seven of the EU Member States, Germany, Austria, France, Spain and the Be-Ne-Lux countries, respectively. In its own words, the Treaty is open to accession only to other EU countries. The German Presidency of the EU is currently working to have parts of the Treaty implemented as part of EU legislation. Since the Prüm Treaty is not considered relevant in relation to Norwegian Schengen membership, this will not lead to Norway being able to participate without further delay in the mechanisms provided by the Prüm Treaty with regard to police cooperation. The Prüm Treaty represents a stepping up of the established close police cooperation in the EU, such as: through Europol, where Norway is also involved. The agreement contains a number of elements that are assumed to be implemented over time. As I know, a further nine countries in addition to the original seven Contracting Parties have now declared that they will accede to the Agreement. The Norwegian delegation in Brussels is closely following developments in the Prüm Treaty and insofar as other judicial cooperation in Europe is concerned. In parallel, an ongoing assessment is also made of whether, and how, Norway can obtain a conclusion agreement. However, there is currently no explanation of these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1705	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It is very important that Norway does not become so-called a haven for criminals, whether that, in this case, is about terror, or what I have also heard is about war criminals who, for various reasons, can go to Norway and who we really do not have control of. When it is the case that Norwegian police in Nordic meetings with their Nordic colleagues so strongly recommend joining us here, are my next questions: Was it the flag, that the Norwegian police chief in Nordic meetings has said that you want to join, clarified with the Council of State? In what way will you follow up on this matter further?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1714	As I said in my answer, it is so that this is a work we now have to assess. I share the questioner's view that it is important that we participate in judicial cooperation in Europe. We had the presidency in Schengen last six months, and we saw the significance of it. We also see the importance of being present in relation to the other challenges now facing Europe. There's no doubt about it. There is also a collective government clearly behind it. At the same time, I have to say that this Prüm Treaty presents challenges, because we are not a member of the European Union. It's not just a matter of reporting – that's one thing – that makes us thorough about how we approach both the process and the content of this, so that as a final sum, we get the best result from our participation in the whole of European judicial cooperation. But the Government and the Ministry of Justice work too closely with our colleagues in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to approach us in a way. Of course, I will come back to Stortinget and inform you about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1721	Once again, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. In my last question I want to go a little further and ask about the equipment situation of the Norwegian police. It is a reality that once we have had exercises, and in certain contexts it is such that Norwegian police... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1728	The President must note that the question of follow-up must be related to the main issue, and does not consider that the question of follow-up as related to the main issue of the Prüm Treaty.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1731	Can I ask a question about the equipment situation and the fight against terrorism?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1736	No, no, no. It shall be related to the main question. That's when the Storting goes to deal with question 22.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1745	This question, from the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen to the Minister of Health and Welfare, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1748	‘Refers to letters sent by the Council of State on 20 November 2006 concerning the duration of the procedure for applications for cheap substitutes for hepatitis C, where the Council of State states that the duration of the procedure for this group is between 6 and 8 months. The Justice Secretariat has sent letters to persons who have applied for compensation, where it says: ‘Unfortunately, there is a long time to deal with these cases. Therefore, the application cannot be expected to be settled before approx. 18 months.’» Can the Council of State explain what is the real waiting time for this group?’ In other words, is there any information from Brustad State Council or from the Justice Secretariat that is correct? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1757	The President would point out that the representative is only to read out the question as it is in the papers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1760	Applications for cheap substitutes are submitted to the Justice Secretariat of the Grand Duchy Charity Compensation Committee. Applications shall then be examined by different professional bodies on the basis of which they are claimed. Applications for cheap substitutes for hepatitis C ramde are being prepared in the Directorate-General for Social and Health. The duration of the proceedings in the case of an application for a cheap compensation depends on the grounds on which compensation is sought. As explained earlier, inter alia: in Question Time on 25 October 2006, the duration of the proceedings for cheap substitutes has been unsatisfactory. Against this background, an official group was set up in April 2006 proposing several measures to reduce the length of proceedings, and resources have been allocated to the professions where the proceedings were particularly long and to the Justice Secretariats. The aim is that applications for lavishness allowance should not, in total, take longer than 14 months, where the case is to be submitted for preparatory treatment in a trade union. The aim of the Justice Secretariat is to reduce the length of proceedings in the trade unions to one year, while the aim of the Justice Secretariat is to ensure that the application procedure does not take more than two months overall. Regrettably, the length of the procedure for many cases is longer than the objective, and the Justice Secretariats state that in their preliminary reply to the applicants, they state that the expected duration of proceedings is 18 months in cases to be prepared in a trade union. This is due to a long period of time in the trade unions. The Justice Secretariats have not distinguished the different grounds for applying, so that all those applying for a cheap substitute have received a corresponding standard letter of procedure. As I said, applications from the hepatitis C framework of the Social and Health Directorate are being prepared, and the treatment of the first applications took a relatively long time. Fortunately, after some experience in these cases has been gained in both the Social and Health Directorates and the Justice Secretariats, the trial period has fallen, and these cases now have a substantially shorter period of time than other cases of cheap pay. The Justice Secretariats state that they are hereafter aiming to distinguish between the individual application bases in the preliminary response sent out, which I also believe the applicant is enthusiastic about. Both the Minister of Health and I are concerned that these matters find their solution. However, I see that it takes some time for the cases to be satisfactorily prepared, so that the applicants get the compensation they are entitled to. For applications from the hepatitis C framework, I can now inform you that a total procedure is expected of approx. eight months.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1773	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1778	The President would point out that statements should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1781	I'm sorry, President. It is important to note that the group to which this applies is people who have been infected through the Norwegian hospital system, the Norwegian health system. It is people who have suffered from 13-14 to 20 years of age. It's already today that too many of them are gone. That is why it is very important to reduce the length of the procedure so that they can be given help. I would therefore like to have the Council of State confirm that today's time for those who are involved will be eight months or less.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1788	We're working on bombing these cases, and I know that the Justice Secretariat is doing what they can, and that's where a total trial period of eight months is expected. In my opinion, it is at least significantly better than what you have previously signaled in letters, and also what you have actually faced. We have had large groups of claimants who now turn to the Justice Secretariat, large settlements in the Great Britain about war children, educationally-disadvantaged cohabitants – many groups who have signed up, and there have been heavy cases. That was why, in April 2006, I took an initiative to set up that official group, so that we got the process faster in the underlying agencies. The Justice Secretariats are just a superior body. We're totally dependent on getting the respective colleges with us. Now, luckily, it looks like this is giving us results. In this way, I also believe that we have repaired what the petitioner wanted – clarify the letter out at the same time as reducing the processing time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1795	I am very pleased and pleased that the Council of State here confirms that what has been the practice of the Justice Secretariat, a minimum period of 18 months for this treatment, will not exist in relation to the group we are talking about here. I'm very happy to meet you.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1800	I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1806	Then the Storting goes back to question 18.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1813	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Council of State Sylvia Brustad: ‘There is a great shortage of specialists in psychiatry and psychologists specialists at the Hospital Østfold. How many unoccupied positions can the hospital have if the operation is still to be safe and what means have been used to fill the posts?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1822	Psychiatric health protection is a very high priority in the Government, and we are constantly working to strengthen this field further. I can inform you that a significant number of psychiatrists and psychologists have been added to mental health protection, through resources for the follow-up of the Mental Health Follow-up Plan. We are thus well on track to achieve the objectives for health professionals, which were set out in the escalation plan. If the figures point in the right direction, it is difficult for health businesses to recruit sufficient health professionals. This varies geographically around the country. This has also been seen in Eastfold. As you know, the Health East RHF is responsible for the health provision of the populations of Eastfold, and they state that the hospital has launched several measures to ensure the stabilisation and recruitment of doctors and psychologists with specialist skills. The hospital has informed that it is expected that professionals will be put in place in most jobs during the year, thus ensuring a sufficient number of specialist skills. Like several other hospitals, the Hospital Østfold is obliged to set up the establishment to ensure that patients receive a professionally sound offer. An appropriate offer depends partly on the number of specialists, but also on how resources are used. At the Hospital Østfold, specialist competence is mobile, i.e. doctors and psychologists are inserted where they are needed. Recruitment of doctors and psychologists with specialist competence is a challenge shared by the Hospital Østfold HF with many others. A prerequisite for the hospitals, and I would also like to say the community health service, to have sufficient health professionals recruited, is that there are enough personnel trained. Dimensionalisation of basic training and professional content is important for access to health professionals and the formal competences they acquire. The number of study places in medicine and psychology has been determined by the Ministry of Knowledge in consultation with my Ministry of Health and Welfare. Designation is based on the assumed need for different groups of personnel on a national basis and requires good analysis and decision-making. These conditions are mentioned in the 2007–2010 national health plan. The Ministry will assess how we can get a better basis for dimensioning education. We will also, in cooperation with the Ministry of Knowledge, assess how to improve today’s systems and processes so that the content of these training courses is also adapted to the tasks and challenges of healthcare. From 2006 onwards, the Ministry has set up pilot schemes with three-month psychiatry services for turnip doctors. This has been done to improve the awareness of mental health and the desire of several doctors to choose psychiatry as a specialty. In order to ensure a sufficient number of specialist positions in mental health protection, we have also earmarked a number of posts, and we have called for regional health companies to pay particular attention to the situation in mental health protection. I believe that this overall approach will help ensure access to specialised competences in the field of mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1837	I have to say, I feel directly cheated when I see the result of the psychiatry escalation plan – an escalation plan that we have thought has gone very, very well, with some small things hanging again. In the case of Østfold, I asked what had been done to recruit doctors for the hospital. I got no answer to that, other than that it was done a lot, but it was not put my finger on anything concrete. Now there are only a minority of the specialist doctors who are occupied in Eastfold. When we look at the budgeted positions at the hospital, 50 pst is. unconvinced. When you look at the budgeted positions at the DPS, except for Moss, is actually 60 pst. unconvinced. This applies to specialist medical positions and positions of superiority. I think this is quite alarming. We were in Health North now, and there it was also at the DPSs that 50 pst. was unoccupied, but there were all the hospital positions occupied. I wonder what it is now that the Hospital Østfold must do to fill these posts, and whether so many unoccupied posts are appropriate. That's the question. How many unannounced positions can they hold, and at the same time is it sound?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1846	I have no information to suggest that the offer made at the Hospital Østfold today is irresponsible. Then, of course, we would have intervened immediately. I have to show again that the Hospital Østfold has informed us that they expect one in the course of the year to put in place professionals in most of the positions, thus ensuring the specialist competence that is necessary. Then I hear that Giltun's representative says that she feels cheated in relation to the escalation plan. It's at least a fact that we're now educating more than we did before. It's a fact that we've earmarked the number of posts in this area. We spend more money on it. It is also a fact that the government and the department have now instructed doctors to have tour services within the psychiatry as well. We're doing a bunch of things to get this in place. In addition, this government has launched a review of the entire contract specialist system, which is not least about psychologists and psychiatrists, how we should be able to bring them in more effectively, so that we can also give priority to public health through the use of those resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1855	The fact and the reality I'm dealing with is that over 50 pst. of these positions at the Hospital Østfold are in fact unoccupied. It does not help whether they are budgeted or whether they are in budgets or in plans. The doctors have sent a message of concern signed by four superiors and a chief psychologist at the Hospital Eastfold. They're very concerned about the recruitment. They believe that it is not sound as it is today, and they are concerned that temporary workers are used, which is very expensive – you do not get enough out of the money by using temporary workers. It is a poorer treatment provision because patients have to deal with increasingly new doctors. There are also doctors who know badly Norwegian, such as Afghan, Pakistani and Polish doctors, who bring in seriously ill young girls who are in a situation where they try to kill themselves. This is not a good situation. It's about education and recruitment, and this is something that's urgent. There is also a message of concern from the Norwegian Psychiatric Association in a letter to the Brustad Government Council about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1860	That's what we've been getting into. That's why we train more people, have imposed psychiatry, ear tags jobs and go through the contract specialist system. I must also say that this problem has not occurred in the course of the year and a half that this government has been responsible for. The Progress Party has had countless opportunities, over several years, to get more involved in these positions. I have to say that I haven't seen so much about it. I agree that there are still challenges. That's why we're going to do something about it. With regard to this decade against foreign doctors in general and foreign health professionals, I have to say that many of them are doing a great job in our healthcare system. In fact, there are large parts of our health services that would not have gone around if we had not had labour from other countries. What is important, however, is that they know our language so that they can communicate with patients. But there's something quite different than attacking people because they're of a different origin than us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1889	These questions don't go away.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1897	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘According to the local press, the Minister of Health has given signals that Sandefjord Hospital can continue as a municipal hospital, in spite of the plans of the Health Region for decommissioning. The ‘signals’ create high expectations in a local population disappointed by constant reductions in hospital provision. What is the content of this hospital offer, and what funding from the State on the part of municipal operations, does the Council of State see?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1906	The responsibility for providing hospital services to the population of Sandefjord lies with the regional health enterprise, and the government does not propose to change those responsibilities. At the same time, we are working to improve the interaction between specialist health services and municipal services, so that patients receive a comprehensive and more coherent service provision. I also believe that this is what the representative is concerned about. In several parts of the country, cooperation has been established between regional health enterprises and community health services and the development of good health services for the population. I'm positive that you also start such a process in Sandefjord. If we are to succeed in such cooperation processes, we need to build on the framework we have for the allocation of responsibilities and the funding mechanisms. At the same time, it is important that the funding system is not perceived as an obstacle to good, professional solutions. However, financial instruments themselves cannot solve the challenges in areas where there is a need for close cooperation between service levels. In the context of the review of activity-based financial instruments, i.e. ISF schemes, the government will assess any funding measures that could improve the patient profile between the specialist health service and the community health service, so that it does not depend on which part of the service is actually provided. As evaluation reports, the Agenda Muestmann report on hospital reform, have pointed out, we are facing major interaction challenges. It's not good for patients if we don't get this right. Therefore, we need to make a great effort to develop a comprehensive healthcare service with a focus on good interaction, where traditional boundaries of primary and specialist health services are also being challenged. The main emphasis of the interaction challenges must be met locally and based on local variation and needs. So far, a number of good interaction actions have been implemented. In some places, the provision of specialist health services is decentralised through outpatient activities, and in some places, municipal services are involved in the final phase before the patient is to be discharged from the hospital. Elsewhere, municipal and specialist health services are co-located. Examples of this are medical services in hospitals, intermediate departments and district medical centres. The government will support this development. We work together, among other things: with the Local Association of Municipalities on a national agreement with a national follow-up system to support local interaction. The government, with which the respondent is probably familiar, has also made use of its own resources to support processes related to the further development of local hospitals and interaction measures, not least for the current year. Reference here to St.prp. No 44 for 2006-2007 On changes in the 2007 state budget under the Ministry of Health and Welfare, which was presented to the Stortinget in February, and which are now being dealt with here in the house. We are therefore at an early stage in the process of allocating these funds, but the development of an offer in Sandefjord seems relevant for this allocation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1921	Thanks for the answer. I am pleased that the Council of State makes it clear that operating the hospitals is a state responsibility. I think it is excellent that we get to interact and coordinate. What is the situation, however, is that when this type of discussion arises, the population perceives it as going back to a municipally operated hospital, which will cover all the functions of an old-fashioned hospital, with outpatients of several kinds, with emergency facilities, etc. I would like the Council to confirm that this is not the case. What you're talking about is a locally adapted interaction between the municipality that has to provide services, and what the specialist health service has to do, but under the direction of the health region.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1930	I can only repeat that when it comes to the responsibility to provide hospital services, including in Sandefjord, it is the regional health companies, or in other words the state. Of course, I am open to finding local solutions in cooperation with the municipality and regional health care companies for how to perform different services that are locally adapted, because there is no doubt that we need to improve our interaction. But there is no doubt that it is the State and thus the regional health companies that have the primary responsibility for the hospital services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1935	With regard to the local solutions, which I understand the Council of State is concerned about, I think it is exemplary and good. She then thinks that the health regions, i.e. the country, can hospital property be transferred to the municipalities, so that they are freer as to what their own offer to the population should contain, by virtue of their municipal ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1940	It's hard for me as a state council to go into all the details of all the hospitals around the country. I believe that is a matter between the regional health company and the municipality. I would otherwise like to point out that the Government has now made provision – if the Storting joins it – 50 million. kr, where we include: wishes to test different interaction measures for the current year. Here it is free to apply, also for Sandefjord Hospital. It has to go through the health region in question, Health South, until it is merged into Health South-East. It is possible to submit an application. I can't promise over the table that it will be approved, but at least I want to say that what I now know about what is happening at Sandefjord Hospital is the interesting thing that it is possible to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1945	Question 22 has already been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1952	I will be allowed to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘People with voice disorders, language difficulties and hearing impairments can today benefit from audio-pedagogic or logoped in accordance with the applicable provisions of paragraphs 5 to 10. This ensures that users are helped independently of the economy of the municipality of residence. This reimbursement mechanism has now been proposed to be removed in a consultation round that has now ended. In this context, many central hearing bodies have warned of the adverse consequences of such a change. What will the Council of State do in this matter?"
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1961	Municipalities and county councils, as the questioner is sure to know, are responsible under the Training Act for providing special education, including logo-pedagogical and audio-pedagogical services. The logo pedagogical and audio-pedagogical services covered by the Law on Social Security are also covered by the Training Act. Public security is not responsible for providing services or ensuring that services are properly distributed as necessary. Nor is it responsible for the provision of private-practitioners and audio-pedagogues to those most in need of assistance. The present system does not imply that the services provided by the authorities responsible for providing the services, i.e. municipalities and county councils, have an impact on the services provided by private and audio-pedagogues. The rights of users are impaired by the fact that the municipality can refuse to apply for services that the user is entitled to under the training law and leave to the user to find an alternative private offer. The current system also means that municipalities will be able to avoid their responsibilities for services to varying degrees, and we have seen examples of this. In the Municipal Proposition, St.prp. No 61 for 2005-2006, it was announced that the Ministry of Health and Welfare would, at the hearing, submit a proposal for changes in social security funding and questions relating to private-practice logo horses and audio-pedagogues. One alternative was that the funds that are currently being paid as a social security refund to private practitioners and audio-pedagogues were transferred to the municipalities. With such a change, I have to say that the responsibilities would appear to be clearer. Logo-pedagogical and audio-pedagogical actions would be seen to a greater extent in the context of other pedagogical and rehabilitation-related measures and would provide increased opportunities for quality assurance of services. The majority of speech and audio-pedagogues work in public health and will not be affected by any changes. Many of the private logo and audio educators operate this as part-time practices as well as other public positions. Logo horses and private practice audio-pedagogues are different geographically distributed. There are more or less private practices in about 200 municipalities. There are few audio educators who run private practice. The total number of annual works for private logo and audio-pedagogues is estimated to be approximately. 120. As for the progress of this matter, I have come to realize that, in the light of the input we have received, I will see this question in a wider context. I will therefore not promote an odelstingsproposition this spring with a view to starting from 1 July 2007, as it was announced, but I will return in a suitable way. I have also not taken a final position on the content of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1974	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for at least the conclusion. I don't necessarily agree with the content of what was read here, but I'm at least satisfied that you're currently postponing this and will see it in a broader context. I believe that both the Council of State and I have received quite a lot of feedback that you are unsure. Of course, there is uncertainty on behalf of those who work on this, but not least there is uncertainty about some of those who need these services and how this will make them feel. That's what's the most important thing. The reason why I address this issue is the uncertainty that many users have. You're afraid you're losing an important offer. For example, in the case of: for those who have received cochlea implants, there is a close link between the treatment offer currently being given in hospitals and the follow-up to be made in retrospect. I do not know if the Council of State can say anything about how the hearing bodies have viewed this matter. Is there a large majority for any such change, or the opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1981	There is no doubt that there are some different opinions about this matter. It is also true that there have been many feedback on the matter. I just have to stress that the goal here is not for people to get a worse offer. The goal is to give our citizens a better offer. That's the guide to everything we're trying to do. On the basis of the fact that a good thing has come to mind, I just want to repeat that I am not going to rush this matter. There's not going to be a proposition about this right now. I'm going to spend a little more time going into it and seeing it in a wider context, before we recommend a conclusion for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1988	It's a pleasure to hear that. Without possibly making a proposal to change that, the system will be maintained. This is governed by law, and it can only be changed by changing the law. It is in any event positive that until such a thing exists and is dealt with in this hall, the scheme will be maintained. It's positive. Of course, I am not questioning whether the Council of State wants to make it the best possible. I have full understanding of that and full confidence that she does. It is such that the municipalities sometimes have to choose which laws to break. Now I'm not going to interfere with the municipal economy, it probably makes the council effective even in its answer, as she tends to do. The only thing is that we don't have to get into a situation where our residence address is the decisive factor in whether we get this language training or not, and that's the danger that's there. But I'm reassured by the Council's answers. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State will take a wider round on this, and that users can now feel confident that at least no change is happening on this side of the summer – and hopefully not at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e1995	I just thank you for your feedback. The ball was played here, in the sense that this government intends the municipalities not to break laws. That's why during the year and a half we've had responsibility, we've given 18 billion kroner more to the municipalities. It is also a contribution to improving this service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2006	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The country of Heart and Pulmonary Disease believes that the use of the respiratory system in Norwegian hospitals is a matter of chance and that there is a need to review the legislation in order to ensure patients’ interests better. Will the Council of State contribute to such a review, with the aim that practices do not depend to such an extent on the situation of the individual hospital and the efforts of its dependants?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2015	Respirator treatment could be included as part of intensive medical treatment in many medical disciplines and treatment situations — from intensive treatment of newborns to treatment of severely ill COPD patients, to name a few examples. Treatment is carried out both in hospitals and in some cases also as home respiratory care. Patients in Norway are required to ensure that the health care provided is sound. If a patient needs health care in the form of respiratory therapy, the patient should be given this treatment. Of course, whether the patient has such a need will depend on a concrete and comprehensive assessment of the patient’s diagnosis and health status. The assessment of whether the patient is entitled to health care and the content of this healthcare care is a medical professional assessment to be taken by a healthcare professional. Then it is important for me to stress that the opinion of the patient/supplier should be taken into account when deciding on health care and what it should contain. According to the Patient Rights Act § 3-1, the patient has the right to participate in the implementation of the health care. In this there are, among other things: that the patient is to be included on advice where a choice must be made between different treatment or investigation methods. However, the question of the right to necessary health care may be put to the fore in cases of disagreement between patients/suppliers and health professionals. In this context, the clinical ethics committees in hospitals could help to ensure a good dialogue between patients/patients and healthcare to ensure good, open processes and open decisions. Here I have dialogue with the clinical ethics committees at the hospitals to find out the arrangements that make it so that, depending on what we're talking about here, the family gets more opportunities to contribute to decisions in those committees. If the patient or his/her relative e.g. believes that healthcare should be provided over a longer period of time than the responsible healthcare professional believes, the patient or the representative of the patient may also complain to the Health Authority in the county. Under the Patient Rights Act, a patient may also require review. This may be an appropriate instrument to re-assess the existence of other treatment options. It may well happen in the time we live in, with so much technological development, that this challenge does not become less in the future, but perhaps larger. Then it is important to have both the opportunity to get a ‘second opinion’ and other assessments if things lock up. There are also professional guides and national guidelines for different medical disciplines. These also address respiratory use, if appropriate. The content of the guides and the professional guidelines is to be regarded as recommendations and advice for personnel to take the medical professional assessments. For home respirator treatment, a national centre of expertise has been established for this purpose. The aim of these measures is to ensure an equivalent treatment of patients of high quality. In the future, forecasts suggest that, for example: will be far more patients with COLS admitted to our hospital. Even today, COLS is the most frequent cause of hospitalisation among adults with lung diseases. This patient group requires that hospitals have professionally updated knowledge of treatment and follow-up. And there's no doubt that respiratory therapy is highly topical here, especially because more and more people are affected by COPD. That means that we have major challenges in the future. This is why the Government launched a national COLS strategy in November last year, at the request of the Stortinge. Following this strategy, I have entrusted the Social and Health Directorate with the task of setting up a National COLS Council, with representatives from the professional communities, users and the Directorate for Social and Health. Professional guidance for the diagnosis and treatment of COPD must also be established. This shall contribute to ensuring equivalent and knowledge-based treatment and follow-up of patients. Since concerns have been raised in relation to differences in the use of a respirator for COPD patients, I would specifically ask the Social and Health Directorate to look at this matter together with the COLS Council. I am of the opinion that, based on the knowledge we have today, the legislation provides a good basis for making the right decisions, and that, if followed, the views of patients and relatives are taken into account. As mentioned, this is a question of medical professional judgements to be taken into account by healthcare professionals on the basis of the patient’s need for health care. In addition, clinical ethics committees are established in most hospitals. These Committees contribute to the thorough management and discussion of ethical issues and shall take place in dialogue with interested parties, including patients and relatives. Furthermore, I have expectations that the work now under way in the field of COLS will lead to good results in improving the supply and follow-up of the country's COPD patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2036	I thank you for the answer, which I see as positive in relation to the intention behind my question. I feel that the Council of State is taking the issue seriously, and that she wants to go deep into this to see if there are experiences that are being gained, which enable one to improve the guidelines used in this type of treatment. The background to my question is both an enquiry from the Landslag for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, which believes that there is a need to go through this, and a specific case at the University Hospital in Stavanger, where a patient and relatives felt that they were under pressure and that the relatives' efforts were crucial for the continuation of treatment. I hope that the Council of State agrees that there is the full consideration of the patient and not the shortage of resources and the need to release respirators that will be essential for the treatment that the individual patient encounters.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2045	No, I just have to stress that if people need respiratory treatment, they will get it, regardless of which hospital or health region they belong to. I would like to emphasise once again that I am concerned that patients and relatives, as far as possible, should be included in advice on the treatment being given, and when, if necessary, they should also stop treatment when there is the problem. I would also like to say that I have dialogue with health companies about this, with representatives of the clinical ethics committees. It is necessary that this be taken seriously, and I will follow the case. In most cases this is going very well, but there are, as the representative of Kvassheim says, also examples that things aren't always going well. Then it's about giving things time, and it's often about not the relatives and patients being taken well enough on board, and they're going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2052	In connection with the specific matter that I mentioned, the head of the hospital in question said that there could be a dilemma between the need for an appliance and how many are waiting to use it. It is this type of dilemma that neither healthcare professionals nor patients and relatives must feel crucial for decisions taken. The Council of State said that there are some rights you have, some support you could get in a difficult situation. She pointed out, among other things: on the ethical councils. It is important that patients and relatives be made familiar with these rights and procedures, so that they do not happen randomly as a result of this dialogue when one is in a difficult and generally heated situation. I would encourage the Council of State to help clarify the rights and procedures for patients and their relatives in such a situation and the best possible treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2059	I fully agree that patients and relatives need to know what rights and opportunities they have, and to the extent that it is not well known, I will try to help make it better known. I do not know the specific matter, of course, to which the representative here refers, so it is impossible for me to comment on it. But at least I want to stress that the government has now given significantly more money to the hospitals, and I also want to stress that we should contribute differently, not least through national guidelines, to whether you need respiratory care, it should not depend on whether you belong here or there. If you need it, you should have that treatment – dot.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2070	I would like to ask the Minister of Health: ‘According to the Rusmis users’ association, the system of injection rooms contributes to a stronger dose setting for drug users. In one year, the ambulance service had to be called to the injection room 36 times as a result. overdose. Governments have proposed to extend the functioning of the IDU by two years, until December 2009. Will the State Council review the duration of the IDU Act when receiving the evaluation of the IDU project from the State Institute for Drug Research?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2079	Injection rooms are intended to be a harm-reduction measure. The aim of drug injection rooms is to contribute to increasing the dignity of heavily burdened drug addicts, to increase contact and dialogue between drug addicts and the auxiliaries, to prevent infections and infections, and to reduce the number of overdoses and overdose deaths. At the time of the establishment of the spray rooms, it was decided that the basis of experience and the effects of injection rooms should be evaluated. The evaluation shall examine whether injection rooms can actually contribute to the achievement of the stated objectives of the service, including: the reduction of overdoses and overdose deaths. When the results of the evaluation are available for the summer, we will assess it carefully in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The evaluation will hopefully provide a better basis for deciding whether or not injection rooms should be established as a permanent service. If it is appropriate to provide injection rooms as a permanent service, it must be promoted as a consultation proposal. If the evaluation around the evaluation shows that injection rooms are not suitable for achieving the stated objectives of the service, and we believe injection rooms should not be established as a permanent service, the testing schemes will be terminated. The Spray Room Act and its regulations provide the legal basis for carrying out the test procedures. On the other hand, the law does not provide a basis for the establishment or operation of injection rooms outside the testing scheme. Upon completion of the testing scheme, it will not be possible to establish or operate injection rooms, even if the period of operation of the law has not yet expired. In other words, if we choose to have permanent arrangements with injection rooms, and recommend it, we have to make a new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2088	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is now that many people have been unsure about what this evaluation may contain, and at least the Association Against Rustox has feared that the evaluation report will shed light on many negative and glaring conditions around the Oslo injection site, and they have warned the ministry against extending the law. Now I heard what the Council of State said: if the evaluation shows that there are negative consequences, and you may not need to continue with injection rooms, the testing scheme will be terminated. My question is: will the Council of State, when she sees the evaluation, immediately stop the scheme, or will she say that it will go for the two years that apply, or is it going to promote a consultation proposal? This is also important to know.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2097	When we get the evaluation report, the ministry will go into it. This testing scheme applies within the law that we now have for this particular injection room system. How fast we're going to decide on this is a little difficult for me to answer before I have seen the content of the evaluation report, so I have to ask for it to come back to. However, the point is at least that if you were to conclude that you want to set up permanent injection rooms, you need to change the law. If you get one to end it, we'll end it. But just when this is going to happen, I can't now say absolutely definitely. But we're not going to spend any longer time on this than necessary. Now it is not certain that we will get really great things in this evaluation report, I do not know anything about it per year. today. But those who are going to prepare it reported very clearly that in order to get a proper evaluation of the system, they needed a little longer probationary time for this injection room, and that's what we've given them the opportunity to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2104	At least I've seen that Sirus, who runs this evaluation, has said that they don't need any more time to complete the mission they've been given by the Council of State. What I've been reacting to is the long time you're actually expanding this trial period, and you need so much time to evaluate this. If the result is negative, I think it's eye-catching. I'm asking the Council of State that she go into the evaluation relatively quickly and find out if these are things that are so alarming that maybe you should just stop it earlier. I also want to ask the Council of State for another thing, and it has to do with all these overdose figures, which we're probably not sure about many of us – whether they're higher or lower than what you want to find in society. I could imagine asking the Council of State if it would be an idea to identify the number of overdoses in general in society, so that you could actually compare with the numbers of overdoses that you now get a very good overview of in the evaluation, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2111	I just want to repeat: I do not want to pre-clude until I have seen the report. What I want to say again is that there were some clear objectives with that injection room system. If the report shows that we're not close to those goals, it's given where we end up. If the report shows the opposite, maybe the answer is also given. But I'll come back to that when I get the report. In the case of SIRUS, at least after the information I have received, they have had a desire to spend a little longer time, so that they can look at this over a longer period of time – but now leave it. I'll get the report for the summer. It's not a very long time, it's not more than a three-month period. Then we have a common goal of helping to increase the dignity of the group of people we are talking about here, and reducing the number of overdoses and overdose deaths. What measures we will then take on the basis of this report and other reports, I cannot answer here and now, but this is something we are constantly working on. Among other things, in a short time we will present a drug plan, where, of course, some of this will be topics that are most affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2124	‘We have now received a representative castle. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about the Castle Square. During rainy weather, amounts of gravel run down towards Karl Johan's street and leave behind a castle site that looks very little pretty, among other things. large asphalt ulcers appear in several places. Will the Council of State take action in order to have a more representative castle site?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2131	It is just enough the state that owns both the Castle and the Castle Square, but the property is subject to the right to dispose of the H.M. King. In principle, the King decides what action to take on the property. Over time, there have been many ideas and plans for changes in the Castle Square, but per year. there are no concrete plans for action on the Slottsplatz date. Otherwise I agree with the representative Syversen that the place does not appear in the same condition in all weather and at all seasons. The fact that the gravel runs down towards Karl Johan is not nice to look at, and it is not very practical either – it simply makes a bad visual impression. In later times, there are two initiatives to do something about the Castle Square. At the end of the 1980s, an architectural competition for the total reconstruction of the site was organised. This competition was shattered. In the mid-1990s, an action was launched to lay stone in the square with stones from all over the country. The plan was that this would be a folk gift for the King and Queen's 60th birthdays. There was quite a public debate on that, and we might think about it both by the representative Syversen and myself, and the action was also stopped. Both measures were launched without adequate antiquarian and historical pre-work. Many suggest that the costs of a total conversion and stone construction of the site would have been high. We are aware of the fact that there has been a distribution work on the Castle to identify and look at the functional challenges that apply to the Castle Square. My conclusion is that we now have to wait for the professional assessment for which the Castle has taken the initiative, and wait to conclude before we see what it means. Then we'll get back to the case when we get this presented from the Castle.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2142	I had the opportunity to be in the Castle Square yesterday. It was a day when you really got to see what it might look like when it's definitely not like it should be. And to put it this way, when you have guests from both the country and abroad, it's a little shy that what they first observe is a place that is not at all in the style of the castle itself, and that they spend a lot of time and effort noticing it instead of looking at what's good. I am aware that this is primarily the Castle's responsibility. At the same time, it is clear that the money must come from somewhere. I perceive the Council of State there that if an initiative is taken from the Castle, she will follow it up in her work on the usual budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2149	It is quite right that there is nothing fun to bring visitors up to the Castle Square on the days it looks absolutely worst there. Now, fortunately, there are fewer rainy days in Oslo than there may be elsewhere in the country, but that may be bad enough, of course. I find that they added to the Castle do what they can to quickly get the sand in place, and at all events they have a large device around it. Otherwise, it is important to say that there is quite a lot of renovation and work in the royal buildings that the Castle has per. Possible values are: no, no, no. We have just completed Bygdø Kongsgård, where it will be moving into the summer – a project that has had a cost framework of over 213 million. kr. We're just at the Oscarshall -- a great project that we're about to tackle, with the great values that are there, especially when it comes to the inventory. There we also see a more open and accessible castle for people when it is completed in 2009. This has a cost framework of 90 million. kr. So we do a lot in some other areas when it comes to the Royal Palace.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2156	I'm aware of that, and I'm also very happy about that. After all, we don't have as many buildings in Norway of such a nature as this is about. Therefore, we should also take care of them as best we can. With regard to the Castle Square itself, it is also a fact that there is a place where very many are located. Therefore, it also has an interest in far more than those who live at the Castle. It has a lot of interest in this city's population, and I'm going to believe that visitors from both the country and abroad. If such an initiative comes from the Castle, I can only encourage and hope that the Ministry and the Council of State will take advantage of the opportunity to take a positive view of it – so that she rightly bears her name as Minister of Renewal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2165	I can just repeat what I said in my first answer. I want to wait for a professional appointment before I have any idea of the costs, who will cover them, and what to do. I think the debates that have been have been a little unworthy. One has seen great plans and has had great thoughts without having our professionally anchored in the historical values, and not least in the nationalistic values. There's something about taking things in the right order. We'll have to wait for a statement – if it comes – before we can see what we can do from the Department of Innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2176	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, a large part of the reason is that more and more sheep farmers give up, the large stock of predators and large excesses in the payment of compensation. At the same time, more and more sheepmeat is imported from e.g. New Zealand. Does the Council of State see this problem, and what will he do to enable us to have an agriculture where also buffs are part of this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2185	The representative of Bredvold from the Progress Party asks a question which seems to be related to two aspects: one is the problem that sheep industry has in parts of the country related to the production of sheep meat due to predatory losses. The second is an express concern about increased imports of sheepmeat, i.e. issues related to import protection. With regard to the problem of predators and the loss of small ruminants on the outback, it is a challenge that I take very seriously. The size treated St.meld. No 15 for 2003-2004 and provided the framework for and how to manage predatory populations in the different parts of the country. It's solid. At the same time, in many areas and over several years, the loss of sheep in particular and pure has been overly high and has made it difficult for the outreach industries in these areas, despite the withdrawal of predatory and preventive measures in parallel. The Government has therefore decided that, from the 2007 grazing season, a financial compensation will be paid to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food budget for animal owners when, in the light of animal welfare considerations, it is necessary to adopt intensive restrictions on the use of grazing due to predators. This ensures compensation for animals in cases where the county does not find this to be covered by the Ministry of the Environment’s budget, and it is a contribution that allows animal owners to maintain production with the necessary changes, thus covering the Norwegian market with sheep meat. I am concerned when sheep farmers feel that they are being pushed out of the industry because of tragedies caused by severe losses – as some people experience – by animals on the outings of predators. This is why the Government has also increased its efforts, so that it is possible to live up to the double objective set by the Storting. We have increased the budget of the Ministry of the Environment by 7 million. kr for the current year, and they are now at 44 million. kr. It is a compensation scheme managed by the Ministry of the Environment. In that scheme, not only documented losses to predators but also likely losses are replaced. The proportion of likely losses is approximately 90 pst. For losses accepted as documented or probable, there is no excess of the claims. the whole value of the animal, plus its accompanying costs, is replaced. Sheep farmers are professional professionals who take the welfare of animals seriously. The main problem is that the animals are suffering, and many of the sheep farmers experience that production feels meaningless. Therefore, it is so important to find solutions that allow traditional sheep farming based on pasture grazing, while predatory wildlife policy is part of the framework conditions for nutrition. That's what I'm working on. So the problem of possible imports of sheep meat. The fact that a representative of the Progress Party expresses concern about increased imports of sheep meat is both surprising and joyous. Not many weeks have passed since I was in a debate with the representative party president at Jären on some agricultural policy issues. It was then expressed relatively clearly by the party chairman that the purpose of the Procedural Party was to abolish the import protection of agricultural products. In such a situation, countries like New Zealand and Australia, with the sheep industry and their structure, will relatively easily compete with all the significant issues of the sheep population for which the representative Bredvold is concerned. Import protection is a pillar of agricultural policy for a domestic-oriented industry in a high-cost country with difficult production conditions. If it is to be understood that after the meeting and the debate on the Jären to which I referred, the Progress Party has gained new insight into the basis of the Norwegian agricultural policy and has changed its position on this matter, it is a pleasure for me, and it is a pleasure for Norwegian farmers. If the lot has not changed its mind, it is likely that the challenges of the two legs in this context remain as great a threat to the sheep farmers in Hedmark as the wolf and bear.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2204	I thank the Council of State for the first half of the answer, which I think was a positive answer. Maybe the other one can be discussed. What I want to do is that when Norway can produce sheep meat and doesn't have to import it, it has to be positive. However, the situation in the districts today makes it difficult to produce sheep meat because of the erroneous predatory policy we have in Norway. That's what makes imports of sheep meat from e.g. New Zealand is increasing. We can do this completely differently. This is about a lot of things. These include: on housing. For Hedmark’s part, the number of farms producing sheep has been reduced by approx. 2 000 from 2001 to 2006. The number of sheep is almost the same, but the number of farmers has been reduced quite strongly. It is quite dangerous for district policy and for the district view of where people are going to live, so that the districts are completely changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2213	The import is about approx. 0.4 pst. of meat production internally in Norway, so in the case of sheep meat, even with a challenging situation on the part of predators, we have relatively good self-coverage. With regard to the concern of the representative, Mr. Bredvold, in relation to abandoned farming and what that means, I think it's interesting to hear those concerns. I believe to remember that I have been in some debates with other representatives of the Progress Party who have been somewhat less concerned about what it means for Building Norway about the number of farms and the number of farmers is slightly lower. So I welcome that concern. I myself believe that it is a challenge to facilitate the development of farms around the village, and if the Progress Party wants to participate in it, it is a pleasant surprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2220	I thank the Council once again for the answer. The Progress Party will have a voluntary development, not a policy-driven development in landscape and not least in rural agriculture. I have probably not received so much support from the Government Party here in Stortinget when the Progress Party has presented its proposals on, among other things. predators. It goes without saying that if we have a predator policy that takes more care of predators than buffalo, we don't get the development we want in the districts. Then it's on the predators' premises. In the Glåmdalen newspaper today we can read about a wolf that walked 80 miles, so it's a little about looking at our predatory policy in relation to predatory policies in the other Scandinavian countries, too, so that we have a fairly similar predatory policy. For the districts must survive, we cannot have a policy that gives predators free passage anywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2229	I agree that focusing on the balance between predators and domestic animals in Building Norway is important. There is, of course, a two-fold objective at the heart of predatory policy. That means that on the one hand we have to deal with the fact that there are predators in the Norwegian fauna. At the same time, we must be effective in the case of the harvesting of predators where predators are not to be. It has been clearly signalled by the Minister for the Environment and I in the letter we sent during the summer holidays, where, with a more effective policy on the part of predators, it is pointed out on our part. In this regard, what is now happening to you is an example of this. The Minister for the Environment has now gone in and increased the withdrawal of you, because one sees that one has not taken out the number that was expected in relation to having a balance here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-07.ana.ud1799e2234	Then the ordinary questionnaire is over, and the current map is finished.
