ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e45	The representatives of Morten Høglund, Jan Petersen, Heidi Sørensen, Saera Khan, Gunn Karin Gjul, Per Ove Width, and Silvia K. Kosmo, who has been licensed, have again taken their seats. The called alternate of the Finnmark County, Kirsti Saxi, has taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: by the delegation of the Council of Europe delegation to the 2007 session of the Parliamentary Assembly, Part Two, in Strasbourg, an application has been submitted, signed by the Head of the Delegation, the Grand Representative of Per-Kristian Foss. The application concerns the period from 16 April to 18 April to 18 April to the representatives of Jorod Asphjell, Vidar Bjørnstad, Lise Christoffersen, Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Bjørn Jacobsen, Øyvind Waksdal, Karin S. Woldseth and Per-Kristian Fossfra Workers' Group on the Birth Allowance of the Representative Marianne Marthinsen from 16 April to 23 April to the end of the Spring Session of the Stortinget Group on the Birth Allowance of the Representative Arild Stokkan-Grande from 16 April to 23 April to 23 April from the General Assembly of the Party on the Birth Allowance of the Representative Per Sandberg from 16 April to 27 April to 27 April from the Central Party on the Birth Allowance of the Representative Ola Borten Moe from 16 April to 23 April to 24 April to 24 April respectively. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate of Akershus County Gorm Kjernli is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget from 16 April to 18 April, under the leave of the representative Bjørnstad. The first representative of the South-Trøndelag County of Knut Gravrök is currently residing abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinget on the 16th and 17th of April, under the leave of the representative Jorodd Asphjell. From the first representative of the South Trondelag County of Trond Nylende Jære there is an application to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinge from 16 April to 24 April, under the representative Ola Borten Moes leave, due to illness. From the first alternate of Oslo Heidi Larssen and from other alternates of the South-Trøndelag counties Randi Sollie Denstad, respectively, there are applications to be exempted from meeting in the Storting from 16 April to 18 April, under the representatives Per-Kristian Foss’ and Ola Borten Moes leaveions, respectively, for welfare reasons. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the East-Agder counties: Kjell Ingolf RoupstadFor Akershus County: Anita OrlundFor the Busherud counties: Nina MjøbergFor the Hordaland counties: Georg IndrevikFor the Mora and Romesdal counties: Ingrid I. OpedalFor Oslo: Afshan Rafiq and Karin YrvinFor the Rogaland counties: Bente ThorsenFor the North-Trendelag counties: Ingvild KjerkolFor the South-Trendelag counties: Knut Gravråk, Oddlaug Børseth Brekken, Hanne Dyveke Søttar, Randi Solli Denstad and Beate Marie Dahl Eide.2. Anita Orlund, Ingrid I. Opedal, Karin Yrvin, Bente Thorsen, Knut Gravråk, Oddlaug Børseth Brekken, Randi Sollie Denstad and Beate Marie Dahl Eide are elected to Lagginget for the time they meet the representatives of Vidar Bjørnstad, Bjørn Jacobsen, Marianne Marthinsen, Øyvind Waksdal, Jorod Asphjell and Ola Borten Moe respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e219	Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Anita Orlund, Nina Mjøberg, Georg Indrevik, Ingrid I. Opedal, Abshan Rafiq, Bente Thorsen, Ingvild Kjerkol, Oddlaug Børseth Brekken, Hanne Dyveke Søttar and Beate Marie Dahl Eide are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 30 March 2007: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 30 March 2007 at 2.30 p.m. 11.00 is determined:From Tuesday 10 April 2007, the State Council of Helga Pedersen will re-enter the Management Board of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs.’ The President proposed that this letter be annexed to the Minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e234	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Uppøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Gunn Olsen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e246	The representative, Gunnar Kvassheim, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e249	On behalf of the representatives of Vera Lysklätt, Leif Helge Kongshaug, Anne Margrethe Larsen and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal to invest in wind power production based on marine mills.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e254	The representative, Odd Einar Dørum, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e258	On behalf of the representatives of Lars Sponheim, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I have the honour to present proposals to develop binding national recruitment plans to ensure a sufficient number of qualified teachers in primary and secondary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e263	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e277	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 40 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a succession of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the posts of members of the Government – within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e286	Today, the Stortinget will discuss issues related to education and social cohesion. The government has put forward a case that shows that social inequalities in learning are reproduced instead of intermittently. Despite the formal equal right to participate in the education system and the fact that ‘always’ has been a goal of using the education system to smooth social differences, there are still large social differences in Norwegian society, and the education system is unable to cope well with these differences. We see that among those who take higher education, the great majority even have advanced parents. And we see that in the outcome of learning: from the high-educated high-school graduates, they get averaged over a whole range of better outcomes in each subject than the pupils who have parents with primary school education. The extent to which the family background is involved in determining the outcome of learning varies from country to country. It's possible to close up better with socializing than what we do in Norway today. The question is not why not everyone learns as much or as well, but why the system is unable to distinguish differences in learning outcomes between social groups. As a lawyer, I have had a large number of meetings for this message. I would like to thank all those who have made contributions to the Committee's configuration. Although different organisations are naturally concerned about different things in such an extensive message, the unison feedback is that it is good that the problem again – unfortunately we have to say – is on the agenda. I can't deal with all the issues in this article, but the setting is so extensive that what I'm not talking about here should be described in the setting. I would like to thank the Committee for a good cooperation in the design of the setting. Where we separate layers, I suggest that the different parties themselves do well for their positions and any suggestions. Let me focus on some key points in the message, and let me start with early effort. Early efforts must be a continuous principle in learning contexts throughout the learning cycle. The system is forced to switch from a waiting and seeing device – enough is left over – to make the effort as early as possible. Research shows that language development in pre-school age is a decisive starting point for later learning. Good language development in early childhood is the starting point for good reading skills and the acquisition of other basic skills, which in turn form the basis for good professional learning in primary school. It shows that with a good learning outcomes from primary school, they are more likely to complete further training. It's a good starting point for taking higher education and thus getting them to work one then is qualified to take. On the other hand, late language training will result in reading difficulties and, as a result, late professional development later in primary school. In turn, it is one of the most important reasons for failure to continue training. The simple thing about this is the political and pedagogical point that when we know something about such relationships, we have to work to secure a system that captures this as early as possible. There is a joint committee that increases the efforts of the Government in relation to early efforts. I shall honestly admit that it was a little a-ha experience for me to imagine how important the development of the early childhood is for later learning outcomes. On April 3, we read: «Barnehagen saves the languages of the weakest children». We could also read that a new Canadian study shows: ‘The earlier children from low-income and low-educated families get kindergarten, the better their language skills become.’ So tell us what early language development has to say for later learning outcomes. Is it strange that SV has a great commitment to kindergartens? Is it strange that we put in so much to get full child-sitting coverage? This is about knowledge, it's about learning, and it's about a system that needs to be better able to smooth out social differences. There is a major reform work in the Norwegian school today through the Knowledge Promise. This reform shall include, inter alia: strengthen the training of basic skills and will improve the learning outcomes of more people. School leadership has been important from the start of the reform. Research shows that schools which are closed down in the training of elephants who would traditionally have had poorer grades may have different pedagogical practices, but nevertheless have a common emphasis on clear, visible and highly professional school guidance. School leadership is central to educational development. It is decisive whether we should close better in Norwegian school. There is a joint committee that supports the ministry to review how school management is being conducted, and whether school management is well preserved in the law today. Research also shows that schools that are the most closed have put emphasis on, among other things. to adapt training and value of the resources of the students. The principle of customised training is strongly supported in the Norwegian school. It's a continuous principle throughout basic training, but it's got so much political advice that the content may be unclear to anyone. From a professional point of view, it is simply a question of pedagogical differentiation — variation in the use of tasks, teaching material, working methods, teaching material, etc. to meet within the community a school based on their abilities, interests and background. Despite the fact that custom training is supported in School-Noreg, the evaluation of Reform 97 told us that there is a long way between ideals and practice. We're forced to get there that custom training is more real than just honorary words. It requires improvements throughout the system. Let me get the criticism in advance. The Committee does not believe that it can print a phase for what is a correct learning situation. On the contrary, the whole point is that good learning is about variation in concrete learning situations. That means that the teachers as professionals have enormous responsibilities. There is a comprehensive committee that emphasises the competence of teachers to ensure that the education system is better closed with social smoothing. Teacher training is, of course, central and something that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to come back to once the Government has gone through NOCUT's evaluation of teacher training. However, the question of whether it is reasonable to demand that teachers have the competence to tackle all the challenges at school has become more and more topical. The size of elephants with compound problems is increasing. We have a common school with traditions that we're going to be very proud of. But within this school, many elephants also live with problems of different kinds that affect their ability to learn. Some figures show, for example: at 3 pst. students have serious behavioral problems. We need a greater discussion of whether letting go of other groups of professionals with a different type of competence in school today – to a greater extent than we have done now – can give more room to allow educators to be educators, so that everyone learns more. There is a collective committee that says this in the setting. I'm actually a little surprised that the committee split up on the issue of extending school days. Norwegian elephants have at their infancy — the lowest steps — a shorter school day compared to elephants in other countries. A gradual extension of the school day from 21 to 28 hours per day. week on the lowest steps is a central point in the Soria Moria declaration. That will lead us to the OECD average. Why should we do that? Well, because it can contribute to a more holistic and varied day for students, more time for reading, math and English, which provides training in basic skills, and better preparation for meals – there is simply a connection between learning and nutrition. It will give more space for physical activity — it will not only provide happier and healthier elephants, but also elephants that are more concentrated and better able to learn afterwards. Learning aid rooms and other forms of learning support for all within an extended school day may well not be in doubt as to how much more and better to learn. So that doesn't mean the opposition. I'm assuming they're talking for themselves. For government, this is an important point. I need a little clarification. Enlargement of the school day is likely to have the greatest effect on those students who have the least support outside school. This does not mean that not all parents can be a resource for their children, on the contrary. All parents can contribute to their children’s learning, regardless of whether they have a high or low level of education. Interest, support and encouragement from parents is an important factor in learning. Parental exposure can contribute to social marginalisation by itself. The rate of drop-out in continuing training is very high. One of three does not complete further vocational training. There is, perhaps not surprising, also here a strong connection between social background and implementation. I want to warn everyone who thinks this has simple solutions. It is a complex challenge because there are complex reasons why young people do not complete further training. - It's time to go, and it's red. But I have the privilege of saying that there are other representatives from the government party who are going to get closer to the problem of lack of further training. I just want to give the Council of State credit for having seen the matter so strongly on the agenda, so that we get a public debate on this. I'm glad the message has been a very important debate. I am pleased that we can provide a good setting that I would recommend Stortinget to adopt – with one small exception. I would like to be able to correct an error in the configuration - beyond speaking time. On page 22, first column, is, in spite of many readings and proofreadings, the Socialist Left Party replaced with Left – I don't know whether the cork Socialist Left Party or Left is particularly pleased with that. In that note on page 22, first column, «Left» is replaced by «Socialist Left Party». I ask that it be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e343	It's okay that it's done – after Left's national meeting this weekend. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e348	The Ministry proposes to remove the rule that only adults born before 1978 are entitled to secondary education and replace it with a 25-year rule. During the examination of the Committee, all opposition parties have intervened in order to remove the restrictions on the right to secondary education, as indicated by the LO that they will support them. Are the government parties on a LO collision course? And why do the government parties want to continue to have restrictions that prevent, among other things. Are drug users in the past at a new start in life and at a risk of obtaining education and work?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e355	The government party definitely shares the questioner's commitment that even those who have come into a life situation that has made them unable to benefit from a provision of further training should have the opportunity to do so. This proposal that the Government is signalling, we will have the opportunity to come back to when a bill comes from the Government. What the governing party writes in the setting, which is a reality, is that still having a distinction between a youth right and a right, can also be an advantage for these – perhaps grown-up elephants – because an adult right is a special right in the law, that you as an adult, for example. have the right to be trained to take into account your real or life situation. So it'll also be an advantage for them. And then we realize that it can be done a lot in relation to providing information that they actually have this kind of right today, and we're interested in further discussing it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e362	It is, in essence, a little difficult to grasp SV's logic in education policy. If we look at the reform of the promise of knowledge, we had a chance to open more windows to the world, while the government is, instead, pulling down an ideological roller blind. Knowledge is power, it is said. Then we need a professionally focused school as the best assurance that the students will later be able to stand at the best possible rest with an increasingly demanding environment. Instead, we see that SV chooses a minimum resistance road school to protect Norwegian students from the knowledge that students in other European countries should acquire. I really want to ask the representative Elvik in what kind of environments or in what kind of research SV supports its strategy, that smaller demands should be able to provide a better school and more competent Norwegian students.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e373	I have a little difficulty understanding the question asked by the representative. This message points out that we cannot use the education system to smooth out social differences, despite the fact that for a long time it has been a political goal that, as far as I can see, the Right has also agreed on. This way, you can point the message at your fingertips, for example. The fact that a person has diffuse and unexplained objectives in Norwegian education is actually the biggest disadvantage for the weakest students, because they are not able to understand intuitively what is really the teacher’s focus on and after. When I used a lot of my articles to talk about custom training, that's exactly what this is about. It's not about lowering demands, it's about having confidence that the teachers as professionals are able to vary the actual learning situation, starting from the students – their abilities, their interests, their leaders – so that everyone can learn more. How it can be about lowering the requirements, I don't understand. This should be a demanding knowledge school, it should be a school that is more shut down in order to smooth out social differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e382	The stuttering message is called ‘... and no one was left’. The government is showing with positive clarity that it will have a continuation of the cross-policy line whereby prisoners in prisons will have school and education to cope with. Rested in collective, on the other hand, is now in the following situation: In Dokka high school, from 5 to 1.4 teaching positions related to drug treatment, in the Sollia collective from 2.5 to 1. In practice, this means that if you are addicted to alcohol and have missed education earlier in life — or have missed education even if you were physically present — you will actually be left behind. It is in quite a shocking contrast to the fact that last summer the Education Committee unanimously decided that it should not be so. Then we had a budgetary procedure in which the government parties could not agree to repeat what they said unanimously this summer. And then we have this committee setting where they can't say it either. Does the representative Elvik think this is a worthy treatment for those who have been drugged?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e387	The SV and the Government Party absolutely share the strong commitment expressed by the representative here when it comes to the rush that has been in a life situation that has not enabled them to benefit from the provision of further training. But I think we might have a slightly different view of the distinction between a youth right and a wax right. I've probably become more and more over-informed about the fact that a crop right gives you, for example. a previous addicted right to further training, but in a different way from a youth right. But it also does an extended right, because it gives the grown-up right to learn from their abilities, in their life situation, in their real-life competence, which is not the result of a youth right. In any case, representatives at this level have made considerable efforts in relation to training in drug institutions. We're not going to let that happen, of course, but we're going to be able to discuss this when the bill comes from the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e396	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e400	Researchers Robert Rosenthal did an important experiment many years ago. He visited a school, conducted a test among the students and said that 20 pst. by the students had a better chance of developing their IQ than the others. In fact, he had picked out these students completely randomly, and the so-called IQ test had no significance for the 20 pst. which was plucked out. When the scientist came back after a year and a half, the students he had picked out had quite properly evolved his intelligence better than the other students. So it was positive expectations that produced good results in themselves. Norwegian teachers have lower expectations for students than teachers in other Nordic countries. A 19-year-old boy who doesn't have a job said to the A magazine last weekend: ‘Every time the teachers gave up. In Norwegian hours I got to stay with the janitor instead, and helped to sweep and do practical things. There and there I thought it was okay. I had so much better time with the janitor." He also said that he really had a dream about working in stock, but that no one wants a warehouse worker who can't read what's on the outside. The school's social objectives require greater emphasis on knowledge. Those who say that it doesn't do so much what students learn at school, only they participate in the community, make white sauce in the kitchen and are good at ball games, don't speak true to Norwegian school students. In our society, it doesn't make sense to say that you can only turn a car if you're tired of school. Car mechanics requires theoretical skills – math to be able to use car electronics, English to read the instruction books. Screwing the car in our days is no longer just a matter of time. There are many people who haven't gotten the most basic from childhood. They don't go to high school. Often it is boys who are rowdy and girls who sit completely silent without saying a word. These students are entitled to learn the most basic things before leaving primary school. Not everyone should be able to do everything, but everyone should be able to do the most basic after 10 years of school. We've probably thought that Norwegian school is better at equalizing social differences than what the school really is. There is also a weakness in the Norwegian school system that, in terms of skills, e.g.: math, it's more important than in Finland and Iceland what kind of education your parents have. Well, it's so bad to get information about the research from the Educational Research Institute on Blinders that shows that students who have parents with low education and low income, but who themselves have top characteristics, are less educated than the second-best academic children. So it doesn't just have to be nice. Changing social structures and expectations is heavier than what we thought. It doesn't have to give all of the same possibilities formally. If we're to give all the same real opportunities, it requires a common effort in the education system, and it requires awareness in school. There is no shortage of IQ that stops students with parents without education, there is a lack of expectations and good learning methods that not only promote those who have grown up with many books in the bookshelf. That is why we will give kindergartens to all those who are well-funded and with good preschool teachers. It requires quality and is something more than child care, as the Progress Party writes in its comments. It surprises me that the right side so collectively holds on and maintains these myths that kindergartens should not have such a positive effect on the children. Professor Anne Inger Helmen Borge of the Psychological Institute says that the language gain at a kindergarten is enormous from the first year. It is important not to supply the natural development of the child, writes Right and Advance Party. Good! It is strange that both parties went into school for six-year-olds, but that they should not go to school for ten years, only nine – learn more in a shorter time when they are younger. Talk about sustaining the natural development of a child! In this message we put up for early effort. We know from both Sweden and Finland that they are taking action earlier against children who cannot read and write. We spend most of our money on special education in youth. We are probably too late to respond to those who are struggling. And we want all-day school, for which a total staggering went into the last period. Now the right-hand side subtracts from the reform, and says that quality is more important than hours. But everyone knows that the right side was never interested in paying for quality in school. The right-hand school is the savings school. What is the reason why they suddenly don't want more school hours now? Is it research reports? En-route evaluations? Or is it simply that you don't support good reforms in school as long as the red-greens are in position? We want to introduce the full-day school because we want more hours, early effort and time to play and physical activity during the school day. Today, Anita Orlund is inside as a representative of Akershu County. She is the rapporteur in the municipality of Skedsmo, where the Workers' Party has taken the initiative to introduce the full-day school at Sten-Terud School. Interest is enormous. The parents are happy. The kids go to school six hours a day, with time to play, physical activity and meal during the school day. The parents there don't ask us to wait. They are calling for us to continue this reform and put it into practice at all schools in the municipality of Skedsmo and throughout the country. We're concerned with reading and writing skills, because we know that there's a great deal of lack of higher education. 25 pst. by high school students, they do not complete within five years after they have started. This is why we need to take action against those students who have not completed their education, in order to improve the follow-up of each student. One important measure is shared counselling, so that we get a more professional vocational guidance, because very many high school students choose wrong. In addition, we are in the process of testing practical letters, where students who leave secondary school should be able to apply for a planned two-year course, where the main part of the training will be practical and in-company. The objectives of competence shall be intermediate objectives on the way to a full professional letter, so that the letter of practice can be included in a letter of formal notice. Rosenthal showed how high expectations gave high performance. The government has high expectations for Norwegian school. Because it's the very weakest students who lose the most of their lack of knowledge focus in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e443	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e446	I think it would have been nice if Huitfeldt's representative had dealt with what was right, and did not insinuate that the Progress Party was for the school start for six-year-olds, because it does not result in correctness, as far as I can recall. But I want to go into something else. The promise of knowledge has provided substantial sums for the necessary continuing training of teachers. The survey shows that the funds have been widely used on the principals and to a small extent on the continuing training of teachers. At the same time, the government strikes the chest with large sums of money allocated to the local economy, and we see that there are more students per year. teaching in the community sector. In Rome's magazine, May 5, last year, Anniken Huitfeldt said: ‘It is essential that the money goes to school, health and the elderly. We are constantly given an overview of what the money is used for. If they do not comply with what we have thought, the government must come up with rules." My question is whether we have now come to the conclusion that the government parties will come up with rules and go in for ringing, so that we ensure the necessary training of Norwegian teachers and improve the quality of services provided by the public in relation to lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e460	These were several questions, but let me go to the teacher's density first. We've made a billion promises for the school after we took over. This has led to better quality in school locally. Many municipalities had planned to cut school. Instead, they may increase transfers. But in terms of teacher's density, we haven't reached as far as we would wish we had. That's why we're going to follow developments closely. The working party was in its time very skeptical about abolishing the divisional number, because we feared that there would be fewer teachers per. student. But we have great expectations that the municipalities will do this. Because we're dependent on getting more teachers into school if we're going to increase the quality of each student.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e467	Positive expectations produce results," said Anniken Huitfeldt. I very much agree with that. Then I find it strange that the message is largely problematic for poor parents, and that it is only now that we are talking about that all parents can be resources for their children. It has emphasized the opposition to the degrees in the processing of the notification. At the same time, I am amazed that the representatives of the Workers' Party are also concerned about moving focus to the SFO. It is as the rapporteur said: the message points to the fact that we are unable to use the education system to smooth social differences. That is actually the main challenge of today's debate. Isn't it when Huitfeldt's representative is afraid to go away from school with his SFO focus? And has she at all reflected on how dramatic the statement that teachers meet different students with different expectations is? It's actually a pretty dramatic statement about achieving results.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e474	SFO is an important social arena, which the Right should realize has come to be. This is why we fundamentally disagree with what the right-wing party writes in the attitude, that it is only in school and at home and not in the school leisure system that the social mitigation effort should be put in place. The government and I believe that we should see the relationship between the SFO and the school. The dream is to get an hour of SFO in the middle of the day for all students, as they have at Sten-Terud school in Skedsmo municipality. For social development and social interaction, which takes place at the SFO, which is an important social arena, good language training and good social training. So this contrast between SFO bet and school bet can't see the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e479	It's a group that often has to fight its own battle, and it's the disabled and their families. For people with disabilities, it is not possible to say that there is a connection between the social base of the home and where you end up. But the challenge of social cohesion is, of course, at what level, and where, you end up after completing education, and then it surprises me that this group is not mentioned at all in a message entitled ‘... and no one was left’. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it shows that there will be someone who will once again stand. We've received clear messages from the disabled people's associations, which are disappointed that this group is not being looked at in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e484	This message addresses social inequalities in the education system. Our overall goal of equal rights to education is something more. Equal rights to education are about equality, equal rights are to be enjoyed regardless of geography, level of function, ethnicity, but this broad spectrum is not dealt with in this communication to the extent that the social aspect is. That's why I'm pleased with Eriksen's commitment to the disabled, but we haven't put the emphasis on this part in the Social Smoothing message. Here's the social perspective we've focused on getting enlightened.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e489	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e492	It is not difficult to join the intention, that any individual should have the opportunity to develop his or her abilities and talents. An unused talent is damaging both to the individual and to society. It is therefore important that the education system is able to stimulate and guide individuals to maximise their learning potential, regardless of their background. The progressing party has noted that the Communication proposes to discuss what hinders good learning processes and consequences for participation and learning outcomes. In our opinion, the message is not good enough to follow up on this and to a small extent attracts up the tools for the school to be a place to learn and not just a place to be. A key point of the message is early efforts for lifelong learning. It is important to stress that early efforts are concerned with early intervention in children’s lives, i.e. early intervention when problems arise or are revealed, whether they are in pre-school age, during primary school education or in adulthood. The results obtained in the PISA and TIMMS studies clearly show that early efforts are beneficial. It has been a central objective of a number of educational reforms to balance social disparities. Despite a number of measures, there has been no development or cohesion between 1983 and 2004. It's still the way that inequalities are reproduced. The reason, according to researchers, is that the measures are aimed at school performance. Although differences in character are balanced, a few significant differences in university-level participation will occur. Students with a "high background" select universities to a much greater extent than those with a "low background". Those with a low background are more likely to go to colleges. This problem of differences of preference is largely addressed in the message. There is only one measure aimed at this, namely in relation to counselling. The Progress Party is very pleased that it provides for a strengthening of the quality and competence of the advisory service in order to reduce the risk of choice of error and non-response. In our view, it is important for schooled advisers, and for business to be more involved in career guidance. The progressive party's approach to the issue of social cohesion will be for all individuals to have the same opportunity, and we will oppose attempts to reduce the distance between highly educated and low-skilled people by implementing measures that limit the individual's ability to exploit their abilities or talents. Key elements of this picture are also for us freedom of choice and choice. The government's attack on the colleges therefore becomes a step in the wrong direction for us. We see that the big differences in Norwegian school don't go between schools, but between classrooms. The use of teaching tools by teachers is random and little targeted. There is a high level of student activity, and there is a high tolerance for student participation in Norwegian school, but this is to a small extent anchored in learning goals. Only 20 pst. the teachers express their understanding of the learning objectives. Such freedom of method almost without purpose and meaning does not provide the basis for a good school. There is a greater need for skills in relation to learning pressures. Today, the relative has been given priority over learning outcomes. Good teaching methods are linked to the variation and use of teaching tools. We see that there is a great distance between the research front and the educational front. Teacher training has little focus on this, and in the view of the Progress Party, efforts must be made quickly, because it takes time to get results from such changes. It is important that education and learning are linked, and research can help to improve this, but even more important is the implementation of the understanding of the research results into schools and to the individual teacher. It therefore appears erroneous that the Government commits to assign this responsibility locally when there is a national problem. The Progress Party will also underline the importance and follow-up of an individual training plan for teachers. Today's school is, in our view, characterized by a weakening of the professional requirements in the school to ‘get more’, which has led to the school not being so clear. We see great bias in learning outcomes, and this is spreading up in the system. Increasingly, less emphasis is placed on the professional competence of teachers. Language developments in youth are also important in relation to further education. We have noticed that teachers claim that the school today has lower expectations for students who come from home with weaker parents. Such misunderstood ‘skillism’ goes beyond the student and contributes to the reproduction of differences. Here, there has to be a change of attitude and awareness of the teaching community — including the school owner. In this context, I would like to refer to the Advance Party's proposal to improve general teacher education by introducing it into an ordinary degree structure, with a bachelor's degree and a master's degree. Furthermore, I refer to our proposal for an obliging training plan for teachers who also focus on modern management and class management. While the OECD and the European Commission have argued for the introduction of tuition fees in relation to equality in European education systems, the Progress Party is positive that the Government will continue the free principle in higher education. A choice of education is a choice made in uncertainty. When young people from higher social groups choose higher education, they have more resources to implement. It is also important to obtain higher education in order to ‘maintain its class position’. Attempts to get people with good grades from a ‘high background’ to choose a profession have been poorly successful. We have also noticed that the loan box does not work evenly. Loans are taken up by them with the best economy. The measure taken by the Government is to introduce the possibility of binding the interest rate on educational loans for 10 years. That's to the extent that a good choice, but it won't solve the problem in any way. The Progress Party will therefore refer to our proposal where we, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, ask for a separate case of study funding that ensures everyone, regardless of their own or the family's finances, financial support for higher education, and that the sum of loans and scholarships ensures the student's purchasing power enough to study full-time. One of the main intentions of the Communication is to point to measures to reduce social disparities. In the view of the Progress Party, cooperation between school and home will be essential to counteract the reproduction of social inequalities. It is therefore alarming that this aspect is only referred to on a narrow page in the communication. In our view, it is particularly important to clarify expectations between home and school and to improve the school’s competence in this interaction. We have noticed that the Government will introduce parental contracts. During the hearing, the parental committee for primary school expressed their dissatisfaction with the term ‘contract’, as they felt that a contract in this context could be seen as something unilateral and from the top down. FUG proposed that cooperation agreements be drawn up instead. The Progress Party shares the view expressed by the Parental Committee for Primary Schools, and we therefore propose that cooperation agreements be drawn up to clarify the division of responsibilities between home and school, while clarifying how training is organised and the working methods used. In the opinion of the Progress Party, a cooperation agreement will be more easily understood as a negotiated product between two equivalent parties than a contract. The Progress Party will also stress the importance of involving the child, i.e. the learner, in this dialogue and the design of the agreement. As the child develops and matures, it is natural to place increasing emphasis on the child’s views. When the child reaches the age of 12, it shall be allowed, in the opinion of the Progress Party, to express its opinion in drawing up such a cooperation agreement between school and home. The Progress Party believes that users and their supervisors need to be involved in the school's operation and organisation to a significantly greater extent. We want to establish operational boards in the individual schools where the superiors should have a majority. We will also point to the possibility that municipalities and county councils have today to set up a cooperation scheme at each school with extended authority. Such measures can be implemented within existing legislation and give parents significantly greater influence than is the case in most primary and secondary schools today. The Party has noted that it is set up to assess the simplification of the requirements of special education procedures. We assume that such simplification in the procedure does not result in a release in relation to the granting of special education in order to release more funds to the individual school, assuming that the requirement of professional judgement is not impaired in relation to the individual student. The aim of special education shall be to return the student to normal school-adapted courses as soon as possible. The government assumes that such reorganisation can free up procedural resources that can be transferred to early efforts by individual students. In our view, the aim need not be to save resources, but to reduce the length of the procedure considerably and improve the handling of complaints, so as to avoid situations where the entire school year is involved in the handling and handling of complaints. In the case of minority languages, we believe that the goal is for students to be able to follow the normal Norwegian curriculum as soon as possible. We will agree that the age-based curricula are replaced by level-based curricula. A prerequisite for successful integration into Norwegian society is that those coming to the country acquire satisfactory knowledge of Norwegian language and understanding of society. These are also important prerequisites for success in education and working life. We cannot support the Government's proposal for a separate legal formulation in relation to the right of minority language students to specific Norwegian training, and we believe that the need for individuals will be better addressed through adapted training/specialisation and level-based training plans. The progress party believes that training in the parents' mother tongue should not be a public responsibility, and we have noticed that the parent language training is less secondary in Norwegian training, as the intention was. When a minority student is trained in Norwegian as a second language throughout the school cycle, even though they were able to master training in the ordinary Norwegian curriculum, we believe that the school administration is guilty of violating the law’s intention and, through this, the students pose a problem in mastering further education and working life. It is positive that the Government will now remove the 1978 rule in relation to the right to secondary education. However, we see it as not desirable to replace this with a 25-year rule. We want everyone who wants to do that to be able to complete further education and think, among other things. to adults in the care of drug users who have a desire to get an education and a job. We will stress the importance of quality assurance of adult education receiving government grants so that the learning outcomes are measured and can be assessed in relation to the use of resources. Otherwise, we are positive that the public offer of primary education and basic skills in adults is strengthened. With this, I will be allowed to raise the proposals of the Progress Party as well as those proposed by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e543	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e549	I record in the notes from the Progress Party that a person wants a flexible school start. One wants to go back to a nine-year-old school, and one wants a flexible school start where the kids can start when they're seven. It's kind of exciting in the context of the proposal that now seems to be in the process of developing the Right, where children down to the age of four and a half should be allowed to start school. It could be an exciting mix with first-rates from four and a half to seven years. I don't think that's recommending in relation to social cohesion. Does the Progress Party recognise such schemes with its flexible schooling, that first-grading can be between four and a half and seven years of age?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e554	The point of progression is crystal clear at that point. We want a flexible school start, but no later than seven years old. We have suggested six or seven years of age in our program. We want to have a nine-year school run, and we want to cut out the tenth year. The resources that we release by cutting out the tenth year, we will use to strengthen the teaching of the nine-year-old. That is the policy of the Progress Party, and that is what we have gone to elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e559	The point of progress is that the first to fourth level pupils will have a teacher who has only three years of education. The Progress Party will provide teachers with shorter education than at present. This will be done by the Progress Party, although we know that these are the first years of the effort needs to be stepped up. We know that students then get their start on reading and writing training. They get the introduction to mathematics. They learn to express themselves both in writing and orally. The Progress Party also proposes to cut schooling by one year, from ten to nine years of primary school. This gives even less room for learning in school. The party of progress is skeptical to the government's publishing house to extend the school day for the small school class from 21 to 28 hours. This will provide even less room for adapted training and less learning space. How can the Party explain that the Party’s school policy will not lead to greater social divisions and a school where there will be less time and room for learning?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e566	First of all, what happened to the course and the length of the school course I explained in the previous reply. As far as teacher training is concerned, we have said that it is essential to strengthen it. There is also something that the message points out that we need to have a better teacher training. We've outlined that we're going to have this into a degree structure, with the bachelor's and master's degrees as elements. Similarly, we see in Finland, where they have succeeded, and where they drive with a five-year race. The PISA and TIMMS surveys show that by strengthening teacher training, you get a completely different effect from what we have in Norwegian school today. I believe that the policy of the Progress Party in this area is good – it will not contribute to increasing social differences, but will provide a better school than the one we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e573	My question to Gåsvatten is on the Special Note to the Progress Party on the School Leisure Scheme. There the Progress Party says that the parents should pay the costs of the scheme maritime. Most students from 1st to 4th grade go to SFO. We know that many will depend on price, and that those who need it the most, perhaps – if the model that the Progress Party wants is implemented – will not have the opportunity to go there. We have received preliminary KOSTRA figures for 2006, and they show that the municipalities contribute 451 kroner per month on average. If this were to be left to the parents' sail, it would probably be NOK 5000 more a year to pay. The party of progress says they're for the most people, but I think this example actually supports the opposite, that it's not for the most people, but for those who have the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e580	It's nice to see you've read our comments. But you may not have read them thoroughly enough, because what we also say in relation to the school and leisure system is that there are other ways to organise the school and leisure system than in many municipalities today. It can help bring costs down, and it can, in our opinion, help to meet those who have special needs, more specifically. We look at the school and leisure system as babysitting. There's something that's forced on us. Because in more and more cases we have two working-out parents, this kind of childcare has forced itself. We're opposed to inputting it as a formal part of the school day. That's why we think it has to have the status of childcare, and then it'll be up to the parents to be able to organize it in another way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e587	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e590	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for the work that has been done in the Committee. The theme of the day is St.meld. No 16 on social cohesion at school. The message deserves commendation for addressing one of the main challenges facing the Norwegian school system, namely that no student should be dependent on their parents’ background to get a good schooling. This is a very central task for a welfare and knowledge society, both on behalf of individuals and on behalf of society. Red-green politicians have previously argued as their main defense to preserve the status quo in Norwegian school that it has created equality and justice for all students. The will of these politicians to see if the thesis would be correct in dealing with reality was rather deficient. The reality did not get on the track until during the last government, the government of Bondevik II, where the Right with the Christian People's Party and the Left took on the job of finding out what the state was actually in Norwegian school. National and international surveys then confirmed that the socialists' school of unity was in reality a road school of least resistance, which, through lack of ambition and vagueness and partly lack of objectives for students covered over and reinforced differences instead of balancing them. State Council Djupedal has stated that when he became the Council of State, it came as a surprise to him how poor the Norwegian school system is in balancing social differences. With that he revealed that he had completely missed one of the basic issues behind the Knowledge Lift and St.meld. No 30 for 2003-2004, Culture for learning. That may be why we have now received a big message full of things we already knew, which almost all agree on, but without a plan of action, commitments, cost estimates and proposals for funding. St.meld. No 16 does not provide new answers to already known challenges. It does not strike out any new course, but continues in a course that has already gone up by the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left in the previous government. Therefore, I have not intended to dwell on anything more particularly in the message, but rather go over to talk about what it should have mentioned, namely how the Knowledge promise will become a reality for all students. Norwegian school has a lot of competence, great resources and a lot of teachers who, after school, are going to be the developer of individuals as it should be. Creating conditions for the further development of a welfare society at the top of the world and for the knowledge society of the future is a major challenge. Many assumptions are present, but a continuous focus on further development is a fundamental prerequisite for success. We have local school ownership in Norway. It's municipalities and counties that are going to give the students a good school offer. To analyse the division of labour in the country of responsibility — local ownership — school management — class management is central to the development of the school that the Knowledgelift requires. Local ownership must be promoted and put in focus. How to acquire active local ownership of the results and development of the school is hardly mentioned in the notification. It's a fundamental weakness. The school concerns us all, as local democracy concerns us all. It is this local democracy that must become its responsibility and its possibilities conscious. Openness about the results in school is essential for raising this awareness. Locally, you need to know as much about school as possible to do something about school. One will also need to know something about developments elsewhere in order to develop their own school. There were international comparisons that provided the wake-up in Norwegian school. This is not ranking, but critical information for a good ownership. An offensive and conscious school ownership will call for school management. Good, strong and clear management is essential for students’ learning. There is evidence of wide variation in outcomes between schools and between classes in the same school. It is the responsibility of the school administration to ensure that the prerequisites for teachers to do a good job are present. When there are great variations in learning outcomes at the same school, it tells of an unacceptable difference in the teaching that the teachers give the students. There is a system error that the school management is responsible for correcting. The teacher’s competence must be closely monitored by the school management so that one knows what needs to be reinforced and can have planned continuing training in order to ensure this. It is the responsibility of the school owner and the school manager that the school works well at all stages and is not left to chance. The right refers to the school management education services that came in the previous government period, but there are still major challenges and opportunities in this area that need to be addressed through active local ownership. The role of the teacher in school is formidable; it is the teacher who conveys the contents of the promise of knowledge to the students, and the teacher is the main single factor in the learning of the students. The teacher’s educational and professional knowledge and the ability to act as a clear and clear class leader are therefore crucial to the learning outcomes of the students. A good school owner and a good school manager must focus on the continuing training of teachers. Through the Knowledge promise, the State has also taken a clear driving role in this task. There is evidence that Norwegian teachers have a strong interest in continuing training, but that this effort is not systematic enough or targeted at the subjects in which the teacher teaches. The right will point out that there are major challenges in ensuring that the resources allocated to continuing education and training in the Knowledge Lift are actually provided to the teacher. It seems well documented that there is a need for more systematics in this area. It has been emphatically demonstrated that the parents’ background is decisive for the success of children’s schooling. That's the result of the school's lack of ambitions on behalf of all students, and the fact that you've met different students with the same arrangements without clear requirements for what students should learn. This has already been addressed by the Knowledge Lift. This does not mean that parents should become less involved in their children’s schooling — on the contrary. This means that we need to have a positive view of parents and see that all parents can be resource individuals in relation to their children's learning, regardless of educational background and ethnicity. It is essential that they are invited into good school-home cooperation and that all parent groups receive the help they need to contribute positively. Unfortunately, St.meld is missing. No 16 this perspective in its one-sided reference to the disadvantage of the low-resource parents implies for children’s schooling. The major decline in secondary education is very serious. The problem is obviously very complex and a fundamental challenge that needs to be solved if a large group of young people are not to fall out of work. In this context, I refer you to the proposal for a representative, which has been submitted on this subject, which states that although we agree with the measures described in the communication, we do not think they are comprehensive enough. St.meld. No 16 uses a lot of space to confirm the need for the promise of knowledge; it comes with little new and is therefore uncontroversial. In its lack of binding and consistent action, it demonstrates that the Government is on the ground resting in the important work to ensure that Norwegian schoolchildren actually get a better school. To the extent that the Committee has received cost estimates, these have come from the Hearing Officers. This does not promise good for the further work. A deep-edal rest cutting in this area too is too expensive for those involved, for society and for the school. One of the few points with the message is that also the red-green government now really realizes that their mantra about the college proved to be unbearable of the meeting with reality. It needs strong improvements to make St.meld. No 16 is going to get a better copy. I bring up the proposals No. 17 and 22 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e627	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e632	The right hand contribution to the school policy debate during this period, when they talk about the promise of knowledge, reminds us mostly of peas, peas, we invented it first! That doesn't lead to correctness. It was the Hernes who launched a huge follow-up to the reforms in the 1990s. It was the Hernes who reported to us on major international investigations, and it was the Stoltenberg I government that put down the Quality Committee. But the right is using all these international studies to undermine the primary school. My question is: the OECD equity report on which this communication is largely based says the following about the Norwegian school: ‘The heart of the Norwegian education system is the unit school [[...]] We've never heard anything about this quote from the Right. Does the Right intend to include these recommendations in its school policy as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e645	The reason she hasn't heard this from the Right is probably because we're dealing with the results and not with the ideology. Creating a school that gives equal opportunities to everyone is what seems to be most important to us, not if it's called a college or anything else. Instead, Anniken Huitfeldt strongly argued that SFO should take over a good part of the responsibility for social subsampling. It seems to me that there is no special emphasis on what challenges the school is actually facing. Pulling SFO into this will cost 1.5 billion kroner, and then it can't be that you're going to spend that money first and then start looking at what the school needs. We're dedicated to creating a school with good results, a school that creates equal opportunities for everyone. Whether it's a single school or something else, we're not that busy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e652	The government believes it is important to extend the school day for the small school class. It is necessary to create room for a more holistic and varied day for our students. An extension of the school day is necessary to create time and space for reading, writing, math, English, physical activity, meals, homework, etc. It is important to use practical working methods at the small school stage. This is particularly true of the real subject matter, which this government has given a high priority to. It takes time to discover new mountains. It takes time to climb the tithes. An extension of the hour will be important to give room for more learning and be an important contribution to smoothing out the social differences we have. The right is skeptical about this, and one of the reasons is that it'll cost too much. My question to the Right is: Has the Right not yet discovered that quality costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e659	Indeed, the right has discovered that quality costs, and that is precisely why we are concerned that this must be a targeted and correct measure. We have not rejected the discussion about extending the number of school hours. What we've said is that we want to get this consistent, among other things. relative to the number of teachers to enter. In this respect, it has been noted by the hearing bodies that this will require 4,000–5000 new years of teaching. Then we'd like to see teachers come in with the right qualifications and that there's the right use of resources to meet the challenges that the message outlines. And it's going on social subsampling. Then there are a number of issues that need to be highlighted. We know that it's the most disincentive students who fall away, and if that's right with a very wide-ranging number of hours, we'll see a documentation of. We want at least a clarification of both costs and consequences before we say yes. That's what we said in our comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e664	I noticed that the representative, Gundersen, is very concerned about active local ownership and emphasises continuing training. That's good. I have also learned that the Right agrees with us that the teachers are the most important resource. All of this is fine, but how can the Right explain that they want to bet on school now as they are in opposition, while they were in position driving the community economy and school on sparebluss? We took over a municipal budget where many teachers were actually at risk of being cancelled. It was cut hard in the municipal budgets, we know that, but they are now, after the red-green government came to power, increased by 18 billion kroner. Isn't it going to be a little long between life and learning? And what does the Right really mean – also in position?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e669	If the municipal economic argument had been right, we would have seen, based on the red-green argument, that there had been an increase in the number of teachers in the municipalities. It is not documented. That's the opposite that's being documented. The Education Association says it's fewer. But the basic thing here is that if access to resources in Norwegian school had been the problem, Norwegian school would have had no problem. Because we spend more money in school than any other country in the West – at least we are in the leadership. So it's about using the funds more efficiently, looking up the challenges you have. The right has always wanted to spend a lot of resources on school, but you've combined it with a focus on quality. It shows, not least, the reform that Kristin Clement carried out in the last period, under the Government of Bondevik II. The focus was on knowledge, requirements and quality at school. We're already starting to see results of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e676	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e679	This message I and many other great expectations, for every time I or others took up e.g. School-based non-response challenges were identified — with anticipation — for this communication. I think the government itself also had this as one of its pillars in education policy. But when I sat and prepared for this debate, I asked myself the question: What is really the red-greens' big grip to achieve social cohesion and to do something about the frighteningly high drop-out that's in school today? It's not that easy to find a main profile. Maybe the impression is that you want a lot, but you get little more concrete. The message is very good at describing and analysing, but unfortunately, when it comes to concrete actions, it becomes quite general and general. Now the opposition has made a lot of helpful proposals, and then I find it sad that the majority reject the vast majority – not all – of the proposals that the opposition makes. I think listening to others sometimes can create even better solutions than the ones you've come up with yourself. I want to go into some of the areas where I think the message does not provide good enough answers. The message's title is "... and no one left". But the message has not at all affected the challenges of the disabled in the education process, and then I'm afraid that someone will still be there. Here I believe that there is an ideological difference between my party, the Christian People's Party, and this slightly more socialist dominated government. For the Christian People's Party, the main goal is not social cohesion itself, but to create a school where all kinds of students master and become winners, and that leads to social cohesion. I understand that the main reason why people with disabilities are not included is that they come from different types of homes, and that their situation is not a reproduction of the starting point of the home, and thus breaks with the government's chief thesis. But here's reason for criticism, because after a course of education, we find people with disabilities in the lower parts of the socio-economic tables. This may indicate that this group does not become masters and winners through its educational cycle, and then it is really sad that the red-greens will not take this group into this context. The learning outcomes for this group of students will be random. Only the practical challenges require a lot of time and effort for children with disabilities and the family. So the question for us in the Christian People's Party is not primarily where you come from, but where you end up after school. Therefore, it will be important to have measures that balance for this group as well. Disabled children also need an extended SFO offer. Although the government parties would not participate in a decision on an extended offer of this, in the Christian People's Party we are very pleased that they will at least make an assessment of the need and come back to the matter. The government and the Storting have a common and great concern: that so many do not complete further education. One out of three does not complete vocational education. For many of these, the challenges have started much earlier in school. And I fully agree with the message that early action is important. We also need measures that are being put in place for those who are already in high school. In those schools that are now investigating the end-cause, it turns out that unmotivated/school leave is a cause for many of the students. For many of the students, the theoretical promise in the school after Reform 94 has led to feelings of lack of mastery in school. Students who are highly practical need to be given opportunities for more practical theory. It's about learning methods, and it's about teacher candidate schemes. There is a need for more people to be able to turn around with practice first and the school afterwards. It's about improved counselling. We in the Christian People's Party believe that it will certainly be an advantage to get your own education for school counselors. But it is that even if we were to be able to get to a better school, there are students who, for various reasons, will drop out after using their rights to re-election. For a girl with a new start who can now take her education, it's a very sad signal that the red-greens won't give her the opportunity to start over until she's 25 years old. I believe that this 25-year limit has to go away. I'm afraid that the red-greens here have been scared away by the commercial school ghost. For all, there will be a win situation where adults, regardless of their age, can be educated instead of being outside a labour market. Lifelong learning is heard hollowly when they are not able to learn. In West Agder we have Oberebø secondary school, run by the Blue Cross, which, in cooperation with a rehabilitation institution, offers secondary education. According to this rule, they will not be able to offer many of their clients an offer of higher education and a new start, because these are not old enough. We must be grateful and happy that someone comes out of drug abuse even before they are 25 years old. To say like LO, it's a step in the right direction, but the rule should be completely gone. The most important thing must be that people who want to get an education. The school reproduces the inequalities that exist in the home. It's clear to the message and the government. The heading of Chapter 5 is ‘Amendment possible’. But what surprises me is that the government's conclusion is that it is only in the education system that action needs to be taken. I believe that, in order to provide pupils with a lower level of education at home with a better level of learning, there is a need to invest in home-school cooperation, strengthening the understanding of the school at home and the fact that each parent, regardless of background, is one of the most important resources for the child’s learning. Home-school cooperation is important, important, says government parties, but it does not initiate measures to systematise and strengthen home-school cooperation. After the descriptive chapters of the message, this should actually be a main field of action. Our joint project should be to initiate measures that enabled us to get there that all parents so that they could be resources for their children. These are the teachers, these are the parental committees, and the research clearly shows it. Therefore, it is sad that the Government is passive in this field. I know an ideological difference. Thomas Nordahl has researched home-school cooperation, and four years after his report «Might and Power» he concludes in the magazine Education in March this year that there is still a long way between ideals and realities. Since school in Oslo, the Christian People's Party has proposed in the State budget. They employ a parent representative to improve home-school cooperation at their school. The representative's competence is that she has children in school. The Christian People's Party will have more than good words about acceptance in this area. Here I challenge the Government and the Council of State to action. The parenting committee for primary school should be given the opportunity to participate with the Education Association and to draw up an action plan to really make this work. We can't give the same answers we've given for 30 years on why school doesn't equalize social differences. We have to start giving new answers, and here I think one of the answers lies. There are few of the measures contained in the notification, which we disagree with — except for the number of hours — but they are also very general. We believe that more action is needed here. Imagine if we saw an equal commitment to this matter as we saw it was about the tightening up of the law on free school! My conclusion is that after this message we know much more. I want to thank the Council of State and the Government for both the analyses and the knowledge of what we could do. But we might change a little bit of what has been the challenge for the remaining students. And maybe the title "... and no one was left" has to be followed by a never-ending question mark. We will support proposal No. 13, which is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e717	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e720	Everyone is concerned that no parent should have to take the children out of the SFO for economic reasons. At the same time, the Christian People's Party stresses that it is at school and at home and not at the SFO that efforts for social cohesion must be put in place. It was also the representative Eriksen inside his post. She referred, among other things: for the treatment of the care message and the place of the disabled in the SFO. What does the Christian People's Party mean? Can the SFO be involved in equalising social divisions or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e725	There are some things that have been strange in the process we've had. I think the message through its description says a lot about where the answer is. It's in an interaction between home and school. Then the Christian People's Party believes that it is important now to put in place measures to strengthen cooperation between school and home. Many students — at some ages most of them — go to SFO. But it's in the meeting between the school and the home we have to be able to get to the equalizing measures. For the Christian People's Party, SFO is important. The SFO is important as a voluntary and good alternative, and not as the Workers' Party suggests in some of the matters they have brought, that the SFO should be part of an involuntary offer and part of a full-day school. The Christian People's Party believes that we have to initiate measures at school so that we get to the subjugation where all students are, and do not add up to more coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e730	I believe that a main criticism of Dagrun Eriksen's article is that the government is based on ideology and not on reality. I'm fundamentally disagreed about that. I think the government is based on both ideology and reality. But I have to say that when I read the opposition's comments and hear the articles here today, I really want to return that question: isn't it true that one is opposed to the measures proposed by the Government, excluding ideological reasons? So, early work is a central tool in this message. Now we've got research that says that kindergarten is very central to – as it was in the newspaper of April 3 – saving the language of the weakest children, which may sound a bit craky, but which is at least a very clear sign. Is this research that the Christian People's Party is busy taking over? They're in a comment where you're very skeptical about the kindergarten at all has something to say about the smoothing out of social differences and children's learning. Is the Christian People's Party interested in taking over this new research?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e738	The Christian People's Party is a supporter of a lot of good research. That's why the Christian People's Party introduced cash support, started research and research on the challenges of language and integration for minority children in particular. We have a challenge, because it is not certain that all children – if not EN will now go for a compulsory kindergarten – will be in kindergarten no matter what kind of scheme you have. Therefore, it is important for us in the Christian People's Party that municipalities have the freedom to make good integration measures not just linked to kindergarten, so that the child's language development becomes good wherever the child is. I believe that the government parties and the Christian People's Party have a common goal that children should get the best possible start. But we probably have something different ideology about how this can be solved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e745	I want to follow up on Mr Elvik's question. In the comments from the opposition, among others: The Christian People's Party affirms that cash support is an important measure because research shows that the first three years are particularly important in the development of children. A professor named Anne Inger Helmen asserts that in the first years of his life, the gain at a kindergarten is enormous for families with low income and low education. Language implications are high and long-term if children do not have early childhood gardening. The representative, Eriksen, believes that removing the cash support will lead to the loss of their freedom of choice with poor finances, according to the comment. Children who are at home learn language only half as well as kindergarten children. Are these consequences that the Christian People’s Party believes we can live with? And does the Christian People's Party disagree with this professor?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e752	I want to repeat some of what I said in my reply to the representative, Åsa Elvik. I expect that the representative from the Workers' Party is not either to make it compulsory for everyone. That means that there are some people who want to choose differently, no matter what order you have. Then it becomes very important for the Christian People's Party that we initiate measures in relation to language and stimulation for children not just linked to kindergarten. Kindergarten is a good move, and the Christian People's Party has been a driver for getting enough kindergartens and good enough kindergartens. In today's setting we ask for a quality message, which is opposed to the government parties. But what is important is that we also take action to strengthen arenas where families who do not use kindergartens also have an opportunity. There I would like a greater effort from the government parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e757	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e760	This message is an interesting reading. It is well supported by both international and Norwegian studies. Today, too many young people leave primary school with insufficient skills and skills. We can't accept that so many fall outside. When differences in learning follow social patterns as clearly as the message shows, this is a social responsibility that we have to assume. The response to the challenges and weaknesses identified in the message is not a new major reform. There was and is a broad political uproar about the promise of knowledge. The Knowledge Lift defines what and how much students should acquire knowledge and skills through the training cycle. This message is about checking what comes out at the other end of the training course, i.e. the learning effect for each student. And unfortunately we have to say that the message confirms one of the stanzas in Aasmund Olavsson Vinje's song «To my father do»: «Great heritage it is for the man of good people to be born». Unfortunately, the school system is not able to smooth out the social inequalities despite the fact that everyone formally has equal rights. In summary, the aspects identified by the message as an obstacle to good learning are mainly due to the failure of the learning processes in the individual classrooms. Then I have to hurry to add that of course there is a lot of positive development work and positive teaching in Norwegian school. The message also shows good examples of this. But it's important to point out the responsibility that the school owners here actually have. In a report on equivalency in Norwegian education, the OECD points out that Norwegian school lacks strategies to follow up students when it is seen that they are following. Statistics show that we are setting up special education very late in Norwegian school, i.e. in violation of the principle of early intervention. In Finland, they do the opposite, and they also have much better results than we do. The OECD notes this in the context of the widespread lack of information on students’ progress and unclear and low operational descriptions of what can be expected from students at different stages, and the lack of a screening tool to identify students in need of additional assistance. This is essential knowledge in order to be able to deploy resources in the right place and in the right way. Finally, a little about the problem of school dropout — it has also been mentioned earlier today. This is very serious for individuals — the student sea and relatives. While it is a socio-economic loss, I would say it is a great defeat for a rich society like ours. Better advice is given, and it is a very necessary tool. The centre party has long considered that two-part counselling, one on the social, and one on the professional level – i.e. a qualitative and more professional counselling throughout the educational cycle. The rate of drop-out in secondary schools is reported to be about the same. 25-digit number I think it's important that we go deeper into this number material, because it turns out there are great variations from state to state -- actually from school to school. In Oppland, for example, the 2005 average rate of non-response 5. One element that has led to such a low drop-out rate in Uppland is that the county is involved in a project where one is working on an overall assessment system in school and apprenticeship. In the cooperation process between school and enterprise, one important measure is the establishment of a so-called learning and development team, where teachers, professional managers of the enterprise and the student/student sit together. The representative also holds the examination subject, who is responsible for the final assessment of the entire professional training course. This is important. This is a good example of a successful project – there are many of them. These projects need to be made known so that, together with other measures, they can deliver better results for secondary schools and reduce the rate of drop-out significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e783	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e786	In St.meld. No 16 focusses on social differences in schoolwork. The representative himself referred to, for example: Upland counties, where you have different experiences. How does the representative view the possibility of social cohesion being easier to achieve, for example: cross-border schools and other outboard schools, when we also see that the Central Party wants to limit the start-up of cross-border schools and schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e793	I see well that this with social cohesion can be a problem, especially when there are few people we're talking about. So here's a lot of tools to do. What is also important if schools are small is that you can have teams that travel around and check out the different conditions, and that can help with special educational measures across the line, to put it this way. The fact that it will be easier to get special education than it has been before is something that is added to this message. We are going to red tape – by the way, it should interest the Progress Party – to make it simpler, so that help gets where it is going, and not spend money on unnecessary bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e800	After all, the centre party is a party engaged in being the district's best friend. Nevertheless, the party has been cheered up for a big message that fails to answer the absolutely crucial question for Norwegian school: how do you ensure that you have enough qualified teachers? And then I mean not only to the city schools, but also to the schools in the district, which are already struggling to get enough qualified teachers. Since the Council of State — and the Communication — fails to answer this question at all, it might be interesting to hear what action the representative Enger believes is going to take in order to obtain all the teachers needed to cover the hours proposed in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e807	I feel that I responded to this a little bit instead, that you, for example. shall red tape special education to enable it to enter where it is actually needed. The representative is involved in teacher training and qualified teachers. Of course we are. After all, it's not that long since the Right was in government, and you could have gone deeper in that time as well and looked at the qualifications of teachers. We know that NOCUT has produced a rather discouraging report on teacher training, and also the government where the representative of Aspaker's party was represented could have stepped in to get more teacher training than they actually did.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e814	Today, theory is more important than ever. We've got a school where you also need a much larger proportion of theory in the practical subjects. It has also given practical students greater challenges than they had before. For the Christian People's Party, it has been important to see if it is possible to find some arrangements that allow better cooperation in practice and theory. That's why Lilletun proposed the apprenticeship system, where you could get to have practice first and then connect to theory. My question is, why is the Central Party opposed to proposal No. 10 in the setting, asking for more young people to be able to turn the race – get more practice first, and then connect the theory?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e822	We haven't answered that question yet, but one must be aware that very many of the proposals that have been put forward are in a way just for one will – let's say – to stand out. There's not so much difference between what the position means and what the opposition means. With the development of an apprenticeship scheme with better counselling – two-part counselling, etc. – one will actually join in and add a good race for the less theoretical students as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e829	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e832	There's no doubt, as many people have been involved, that this message, like all the big messages, is a very good summary of what we can do. It is also rich in wise thoughts about what we should do. But when it comes to what's about going from what you should do, to what you'll do, it becomes a big leap. All the proposals that the opposition has made are about taking small and important steps to create a commitment. Let me use a picture – you can call it the policy's obliging babysitting. Bit by bit translates general attitudes and wise thoughts into obligatory actions. Then it becomes a rather strange experience to see that it is almost impossible in the context of a single proposal to take small and obligating steps, which should have the character that they would be reasonable in any case, given that we all – and also the Left – take seriously the descriptions and intentions of the paper. It must be said that the opposition — including the Left — takes seriously the intention of the bigotry message on a number of points and promotes binding proposals, while the government parties are careful to wait and see what is going to happen in practice. Let me be quite specific on a point that is fundamental to this message. The message might have been clearer and clearer about what the school can't do to create social aberration, but the main purpose of the message is, after all, to say what the school can do, and that's a fair starting point. With such a starting point and with the knowledge we have through the promise of knowledge – which all parties now say they are obliged to implement in practice – we should not make it a problem to wait to change the regulation of the training law, which says that to teach in a subject, the competence must be linked to teaching, not to being added. In practice, it would mean putting yourself under the pressure of teachers either through a good reform of teacher training, to which I come back, or through systematic continuing training, to have the skills needed to be good in the situation, where everyone agrees that the quality of teaching is important to ensure that those who do not have anything with them from home, at least give a new chance, but there is something the Government should consider. When this message says that there is a lot of things you can see early, you would think that you had done something completely general and obligating about how, for example. well-educated teachers and specialised educators should be deployed early among those concerned. I walk a lot in Norwegian school, and I spend a lot of time on it, and I have the benefit of meeting some teachers who don't want to, for example. a special pedagogue from the PP service was practical and concrete in the educational situation. Everyone wants that. As others have pointed out, Finns have it like this. But here we're going to have a little project before something happens. It is not surprising that a proposal is being made asking for something to be done about special educational efforts. We do not have to go further than to our neighbouring country Sweden, where the practical debate on using people with good pedagogical skills, including special pedagogical skills, was a central and important instrument in the recent election campaign in Sweden. But in Norway we shall sit and wait. This is the background for a proposal to this effect. If it is that no one should be left, everyone can agree, especially when we look at the dropout and the knowledge of school dropout – we have received an excellent investigation that the Council of State has initiated – that annoyingly many of them have a minority language background. We also know that very many of those who do it very well in Norway have a minority language background. Then one would think that getting the wise life experience about what makes things go well, and the good experience that what doesn't go so well can be sniffed, should be a simple matter to be on. But even that is too challenging for the government parties. Now we finally agreed on a description of the positive and wise things that happen in several places in the country, among other things. in Oslo School. It's positive. But then it is quite surprising that we cannot ensure that practical steps can be taken to make a debate topic. Everyone knows that one of the things that sets a political agenda is that things are being raised to debate. Then you can choose a debate that is angry, or a debate that is concrete, positive and energy-producing – a meeting point – that should have received generous support from the government parties, but that does not happen in this committee position. There's two ways to view this. One is that you think the document is so exemplaryly clear about what's going to happen, that we can all relax. The other is that you think the council is so warm-hearted that we don't dare commit him at any point, even on small dollars. I leave the interpretation to those who listen and listen, because there is no reason for me to draw that conclusion. Then there's a point where I'm actually really indignant, because this is what this education committee has dealt with three times, at the latest in one case last summer, where we were so polite to each other that we didn't take a line at the Council of State. We agreed that those who are being treated because of drug dependence should at least receive a good education. It was a unanimous committee. Then we get a wonderful hike, which makes us become insecure – at least I. When we dealt with the same thing in the budgetary procedure, the government parties could not be involved, and they cannot be involved in this process either. But then it comes to my mind, because I'm familiar with the circulars sent out by the school authorities, and it says that in the collectives and other places, the school offer should not really be so important, it should only be a small part, in addition to the purely medical treatment. If we look at reality: Dokka high school, for example, who had five – I think it was – teacher positions, now goes down to 1.4, and the Sollia collective goes from two and a half positions to one. These are vital doctrines, which make people who either lost their education because they were not enough ‘social’ or who lost it because they were not present at all, now do not get the chance. This is in a shocking contrast to what the government says, which is praiseworthy and positive, namely that those who are in prison in Norway will certainly be educated. And that's right, because we have solid large-scale documents that say that's right. We know that many of those who are in Norwegian prisons are struggling with intoxication. We have Fafo reports on that. But when we get to these treatment collectives, then there are “small” crowns of vital learning resources that just stay away throughout the system. Then you might say that the Djupedal Council is not alone in the responsibility. No, the Minister of Health and Health will also be responsible. But the sum is that those who are drug addicts should at least be allowed to stand still – if I am allowed to formulate it that directly. Because that's what's the sum: first having a declared will, then drawing on the will of the government parties in the budgetary procedure, then drawing it out further on this matter, and then measuring it against reality. As a left-wing representative, at least I am obliged to a parole. It is to give a voice to the person who has little or no voice, because the bureaucratic layers around them are so extensive that it is difficult to penetrate. And I do that using some of the speaking time on this. This is also the case – I will address it at the end – that in this case the opposition underlines something that I think it is amazing that the government parties cannot be involved in, namely the national responsibility – as well as that we have local school owners – in order to ensure that the school has tools to assess everything they get from offers in consultant reports and from other teams. We have e.g. held a broad public debate on the learning lab. I'm not going to go into who's right, and who's wrong, but there's something that it illustrates, there's a need for schools to have tools to assess what they're receiving that's good, or what they're receiving that's bad. So that's what the left hand side, along with the other opposition sections, is important. It should be believed that it was also important for the government parties to say that, because with local responsibility we must at least be sure that those who are going to have it are good enough, not only to measure how the teachers get effect out of the crowns they get, and how the students can do it, as we get through a new version of national tests, but also to make sure that the schools have an opportunity to know what they are getting from offers, whether they come from private companies or from colleges or universities, so that they actually have quality assurance tools to assess what they are receiving. At that point, the big shot will be an example of a collection of a good description and many good intentions. But at those points where a step by step could go further, it doesn't happen. And I don't think that's happening because now there's either a lack of willingness to be so concrete and obligatory, or because you're in the situation that you've spent so much money on the quantitative orphanage development that you can't spend money on this either. At the top of it all, one cannot agree to produce a document on the quality of kindergarten, which is one of the main areas of government activity. You can't be a part of that either. It is then concluded that the opposition's proposals should have been endorsed on many points. Maybe you would have it in other political situations. Today we can see that the distance is the way it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e868	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e871	The left is a party that I've perceived to be a defender of the public school, with room for everyone, regardless of social background. I have seen this in the past that we have been together and have had a common long tradition for. Now I register that the Left is writing with the Advance Party and the Right on major school policy issues in relation to the matter that we are dealing with today, and also in other matters. Can the representative Dørum explain to me what separates the Left's school policy from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e878	On all of the points that we're on here, we've written into comments that reinforce the dominant position of the public high school in society. And what's amazing is that not all of the parties that are behind it are behind it. What's amazing is that the Workers' Party can't be part of it. How is it possible not to have quality requirements for teachers to teach — it is to strengthen the school? How is it possible not to have a proper attitude to reform general teacher training so that it becomes good? Left separates from the Progress Party. We don't just want three years for the smallest years. We want five years of professional and vocational education – Master’s degree. We're also different on points that we're going to get to later, in other things. We also distinguish ourselves on the point of the whole basic view that public schools should not be governed by general price financing. It shall have the confidence that a rate of teachers, a rate of competence. My question is also how it has been possible for the Workers' Party not to participate in so many positive ‘calls’ to the public common school. But that debate is going to continue after this line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e885	From among others: the evaluation of Reform 97, we know that learning in Norwegian school is too little systematic. We know that learning is being systematized too little, and that students are getting too little concrete feedback on the work they are doing, on what is expected of the student, on what they can do better, and on how the student can evaluate his own work. Strengthening the evaluation of the student's work is important for SV. This will provide motivation for learning for the student and also for parents to better follow up on the student’s schoolwork. It will be important to help balance social differences. In order to strengthen the assessment of the student's work, this must be incorporated into teacher training. We need to start developing national guidelines, systematising what is happening at school today, and launching local trials. I get a little confused when I read Left's comments on student assessment, where they start to draw out that they want external assessments and external sensors. This will red tape and make student assessment much more difficult. I want to challenge the Left to clarify its view of student assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e896	The school is based on the fact that we have good teachers. It's based on memory drills, it's educationally based on good experiences, and it's based on a lot of student participation. And the good student participation that I've had the pleasure of observing in school after school at, for example. directory evaluation, for example, works in an obligatory way, both for teachers/students and for superiors/parents. I have seen both small and large people mess with the folder saying – which is a different folder than the one we heard about a few years ago. One sees the joy coming out of it; one can see that people master something. This is what the Left believes in. But the left has never set this in contrast to having an external quality assurance system – at the right time. Now we're not of those who want grades early. Neither are we of those who want to chase people into school early. So the parts that go in for it have a vision we don't share. But the sum of just these folders, which I've seen in use, which works, and which are obligating, having national tests and having external assessments when we get that far, is in short our view. And we're too much of an attempt at directory evaluations, because I really believe that, and see that it seems good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e901	The representative Dørum’s indignation about the drug addict’s situation seems somewhat strange all the time this is an area that has been strengthened under this government, in line with the fact that we have strengthened prison education. It might have been an advantage if the representative Dørum had been just as indignant when he put in position and had the opportunity to do something about it. We're coming back to Stortinget with a reinforcement of this area. But what perhaps surprises me the most is that the Left is slowly but surely crawling towards the Right and the Advance Party in school policy. The left has a proud history of school politics. It was the Workers' Party and the Left who built the University School. It's the one that's given people from all walks of life equal opportunities, and we've got a society in Norway characterized by a greater degree of equality. Why does the Left no longer defend the public common school, which is intended to offer equal opportunities and equal rights to education for all?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e908	Let me make it very clear: where the Anniken Huitfeldt of the Workers' Party is more concerned with spending money on a free mid-hour SFO, the Left is busy spending money on a year of competence for teachers and reforming teacher training. Where the Anniken Huitfeldt Labour Party will extend the hours at the beginning of the school year, we are busy – for example. through a proposal today – because we have enough teachers with good enough qualities. We have to take the basics first. My opinion is that the Workers' Party in many ways prioritises that part of the school that is welfare policy. It is a valid objective — at the expense of what is the core areas of the school, knowledge and learning in a good way. Making sure that the public school is good at this is actually making it competitive. It remains to be seen whether the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government have the ability to want that priority when we get to the practical crowns. The left has that will because we want the public high school well. When it comes to the drunk, I have deep insight into it. The point is that what's happening here is that the Workers' Party and the Government's parties are trying to explain that these are being heartily put back on the platform while the train is rustling off the farm, because you can't put in place systems that make sure that the education they have is going to be as it is, and strengthened. But it's great if Anikken Huitfeldt can clean it up. She should preferably do it soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e917	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e921	Just before Christmas, the government presented the big message of social cohesion, '... and no one was left standing. Early efforts for lifelong learning’. The communication addresses one of the main challenges we face in the Norwegian education system – that we are not successful enough in combating social inequality in school. Let me also say that I am pleased with the broad support that the communication has received in the treatment of the Storting, and that this is now being seen as one of the greatest challenges we have, where together we have to promise to find the solution. Despite the fact that we have a very well-developed education system with good access at school places, formal rights, skilled professionals and no significant economic barriers, it turns out that Norwegian school is unable to compensate for social differences. The challenges are obvious. As I see it, perhaps the biggest challenge is to make sure that all children, young people and adults actually learn. What we know through research is that everyone can learn. It is alarming when every fourth fifteen-year-old leaves primary school without adequate basic skills. It is alarming when more than one in four discontinues secondary education. It is alarming that as much as 400,000 adults have poor reading and calculating skills. Today, some of the groups are systematically excluded in acquiring these skills. Problems arise early, including: in the form of weak language development already in pre-school age. It continues in primary school, and the consequences are evident in secondary education in the form of major non-responses. These are, to a large extent, the same young people we meet as drop-off candidates in high school that we see have worn out throughout the entire education cycle. To meet these challenges, the search must focus on our education system. That's where we find the weaknesses to be attacked. Instead of equalizing social differences, we see that the system in many contexts reinforces inequality. We must address this through concrete proposals and concrete changes. This is what we do through this big message and the main title of the message, ‘... and no one was left’, expresses the main objective of Norwegian school and Norwegian education. We're going to have a school system that teaches all the kids they need to give them a good foundation to create their own lives. This does not mean that everyone can or should achieve the same objectives, nor does it mean that everyone should enter higher education. But no one shall lose the opportunity of lifelong learning; no one shall lose the opportunity to succeed. Today’s working life requires both basic skills and broad competences. That's what we're going to do to make sure. So we want to work for a good public education system, a good common school with high learning expectations for everyone. This is important: we need to have high learning expectations for all children and an education system that includes all children and young people in good learning processes. We will work for an education system that ensures that children and young people learn and achieve the goals they are to achieve. The Storting Communication has ambitions in several areas. But the main message is about early action. Early effort means taking into account what research has shown us — that early childhood and early school years are very important for learning and development and for later chances of success in school and life. Let me stress that early effort does not just mean effort at the beginning of the training course. This also means that in-flight problems have to be addressed as early as possible. So we're not going to hesitate to give help and support as soon as necessary, regardless of age. Several studies suggest that in Norway we have too often had a waiting and looking attitude towards children and young people who have been striving to develop their learning. This has certainly been in the best sense, but has often resulted in problems being greater for individuals. We recognize this, and it has been well-meaning, 'Things are going over'. What we see today is that things are getting stronger. That means that addressing the problems immediately may be the most important research answer we have. Our big challenge in school now will be that we succeed with this main act. From research, we also know that good childcare facilities are particularly beneficial for children with the highest risk of experiencing school mastering problems. This is also part of the background to the government's historical nursery schooling. In the Communication, we have also proposed to carry out a municipal language-stimulation obligation for all children – including those who do not go to kindergarten. It is necessary to ensure that all children manage Norwegian well enough when they start school. Language — Norwegian — is the key to master the school code and success. Another important concrete measure in the Communication is the proposal to extend the school day. This action will also benefit the most vulnerable groups. An extended and more comprehensive school day with homework, fruit and green, more physical activity as a balance, and not least more focus on primary school subjects is important in order to achieve better framework conditions for all. I am somewhat surprised at the debate that has been in the Chamber today, and what is also appearing in the ballot, where someone believes that the extension of the school day is not an important measure. What we can say with a great deal of certainty is that it is. We need more time, and we need more focus on the most important learning venues, within Norwegian, English and all major subjects in school. At the same time, we need more time to get an overall framework around the functioning of the school. What we also see is that Norwegian children on average have one year less education, or schooling, than the average in many other countries. Clearly, it matters to what our children had to succeed in learning, that they have so much less education. This is not the opposite of having teachers with high quality and high qualifications, let me stress it. As is evident from the comments of the government parties in the setting, and from the message, we are very concerned about it, and we have many processes in place to strengthen teacher training. However, having several hours in school is one of the most important measures to ensure that all children are given the opportunity to succeed. I'm glad that the majority very clearly underlines it, but I'm somewhat surprised at those who don't think this is a priority measure. We're few in this country. That means that we need everyone who can and is well equipped to participate in the work. That's why it's a challenge that so many people fall from high school. I am pleased that many have made this point in the debate. In particular, it is critical for the professions — and almost half of our young people start professionally. Here, we need to think anew, especially in order to reduce the drop-out rate, and to improve the quality of vocational and vocational training. Let me highlight five key measures for vocational and vocational training that we will now focus on. In addition, we will start a more basic work to upgrade the status of the professions and look at the future position of the professions. My first five measures, which we will take immediately to strengthen the professions, are also in the position: Providing young people with a better choice of rights means strengthening the guidance on counselling, vocational and education. This is very important. The students are different and learn in different ways. We need to have more varied working methods and make training in common subjects more vocational. I would like to take this initiative – i.e. that the Community disciplines are given a greater ice in what is the reference framework of the professions. Then we need to strengthen the competence of teachers and instructors. This means that, among other things: must be provided with hospitating and establishing practical places and exchanges between school and working life, in order to enhance the competence of teachers in the field of learning. This also means that Norwegian and math teachers must visit workplaces and businesses where their students will later become apprentices. This is also a very important part of the reference framework for the theoretical subjects in school, namely that more reference frameworks are also given to the professions. The provision of more opportunities for practical training in enterprises is mentioned. Thus, for the autumn, we launch an experiment with the further development of the apprenticeship system by establishing a system of letters of practice. This is, of course, the main proposal for the Working Party on Absence in Higher Education, and we have now entered into cooperation with three counties to start projects around this. The last thing to do is to ensure that more students are able to learn, and that the public will be better. Here I have a very good dialogue with the social partners. This year more than 1000 new apprenticeship places have been created than last year. Among other things, it is related to: together with an initiative for a joint effort that we have taken with the social partners. We hope that this will result in even more apprentices in the years ahead. Many former governments have neglected the professions, let me stress it. That means lifting the professions is a common political challenge we are now facing. It is also important to stress that there is already a lot of good work going on in School-Norway. Thus, many examples have also been drawn in the big news that show that many schools, many school owners, many school leaders, and many educators themselves have done a commendable job. When I say that, it's to emphasize that we didn't start on the bar hill in everything we do. It's a lot of experience to build on, and it's important. There may be a reason why someone in the debate later feels that this is a new reform, but it is not. This is not a big message about a new education reform. This is a big message that builds on what we already can, what we have acquired from new knowledge, and not least the extensive reforms that have been in education before this government. The raising of knowledge and the lifting of children's hail are just two of them; there are also other reforms. When I say that, it's because this has to be perceived as, is a deepening and strengthening of what's been cross-political goals here in the Biggest, that's to raise children's chances of success in life. Here we have another tool, another big message, that underlines this. I am pleased that in the political treatment of this, there is broad support for the main action of the Government. So, of course, it's the opposition's role to go a little bit further in some fields. But together we will invite the Storting to cooperate on this, simply because this is, as is also underlined by the Right Representative in today's debate, the biggest challenge we have for Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e970	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e973	Both national and international studies show a great deal of concern in Norwegian classrooms. For many years, the party of progress has been very concerned that we should strengthen the teacher's role as class leader. To our great joy we see in the World Gang on 10 April that the Council of State is also concerned with this problem. He even promises the World Times that concrete action will be taken to improve the class management challenges that we are actually facing. The easiest way to do this would be to recommend to the representatives of the government parties in this Chamber to vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party, No. 20, today. It will be practical to maintain the interests necessary to strengthen the management training of teachers already in the profession. That is why the question is, in concrete terms: will the Council of State today invite the representatives of the government parties in the Stortinget to vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party, No. 20, or is it just talking this time as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e980	Both the student survey and other studies show too much anxiety in Norwegian classes. The students themselves report that this is the biggest challenge they face in their school situation. It's clear that we're going to take this very seriously, because it means that the students are also losing valuable time for teaching. So this is a multi-faceted problem, which needs to be done a lot. I want teachers who have authority without being authoritarian. I want a class management where it's clear who's the head of the classroom, while they're able to see each student and use the potential that the student has. It takes a lot. Of course, it requires competent adults in the classroom, it requires a competent school board that is able to encourage it to be a class leader, which is a very important piece. It is also part of teacher training as such. We see in the NOCUT evaluation of teacher training that many students get practical shocks when they get to school and meet the students in real life. This means that there is no simple answer to how we are going to make sure that our teachers are even more able to lead the kids and avoid the unrest and unnecessary troubles. But we have many different measures that will take effect over a period of time. But when you work with children and young people, it's not like you can do a pinch with your finger, and then you have a result the next day. Things take time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e987	This is no new reform, said the Council of State. We fully agree with that. But it is the state council that has flown around in various forums and said that the Right School is dead. The more we experience that the Right School is adopted in most fields, except where an ideological roller blind has been dragged down to shadow the world. We feel that in many ways there could have been a great deal of agreement about very much – and that is also about the speech that Djupedal gave. But I don't quite understand that you pay attention to a small remark about extended school day. I can quote what the Progress Party, the Right and the Left have written there: ‘These members are open to start a discussion on full-time school and to explore the content and organisation of such an action.’ What we are asking for is concreteization, costing and analysis of the consequences. The question then arises: Why is it that the Council of State is not prepared to cost this and to analyse its impact better before such an action is taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e999	As Mr Gundersen knows, this is a big message. A message is not a proposition. Here you will find measures that will be taken back in the specific follow-up. In this way, this message is in form and content, just like other major messages of this nature. We know well how much this will cost. What an extra hour is going to cost at school, we know well. It has also asked for and received an answer. This is something we'll come back to. We also know roughly how many new apprenticeships this will lead to. It could be 3,000–4,000, a little dependent on how to solve some of the challenges in school. Obviously, an increase in the number of hours costs money, but we believe that this is absolutely vital to achieving better results for our children. It is therefore an extension of the hour also has a content, namely mathematics, English, Norwegian, which is the basic subjects of school, physical activity, which is absolutely essential for the children to balance in this, as well as fruit and green and homework. Overall, this will be a bundle of measures that will improve the success of our children. This Communication shows very clearly the link between the early years of children’s development in school, even before they begin school, and the fact that very many sadly fall from when they come to high school, because they have not acquired basic skills. Our invitation to cooperation, including with the Right, if these important actions are real.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1008	Both the Knowledge Charter, the Human Rights Act and the Training Act underline the role of parents and their responsibility for the training of their own children. When the message describes so clearly that differences in the home are reproduced through school, and we have had a common goal every year to try to balance it, and have not got it done, shouldn't a main answer, after all the knowledge we've gained, have been that effort in home and school and cooperation between home and school would have given the result we're asking? We have also heard today that high expectations produce better results. I think that many parents don't experience any expectations about their presence, because society has taken on more and more of the assignments that parents had before. I ask: can we manage to get an action plan where this is systematised and put much better into life, and where we could give the main response that I think is the answer to the message we are dealing with today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1017	I very much agree with what Eriksen is saying now, because the role of parents and home is very important for children's development in school. The fact that children also meet at home adults who are interested in what they do at school, who can help with homework or otherwise be active participants in children's lives at school, is very important. It is also true that the school’s role historically has been to stop parents’ participation at the school gate. Fortunately, for many years now there has been a significant focus on this. And as the representative knows, this is much mentioned in the big message, precisely because we stress the importance of parents' participation for children's development and education. What forms of cooperation can this take? It could be different. One answer in this message is a parent contract, but there are many other answers as well. To strengthen the FUG we also do, not least by giving FUG a responsibility for the first few years of higher education. What we see is that there are many who are struggling and falling off in the transition between the schools. But then we must not underestimate the following: Not all parents can help. But that the parents should always support and be involved, and that the school should facilitate parental participation, I agree with the heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1024	Just like I was in Finland, state councils have taken inspiration. There we have shared some good experiences, among others. in the case of teacher training, and in the case of being able to see something that is important to see early. This big message describes how good and important the school can be to get a fair chance for everyone, regardless of the situation in the home. One thing you emphasize, and that's a full consensus, is that the public school has to be good, and the teachers have to be good. There are some of these conditions that are expensive. The years of competence of the left are expensive. It's about priorities. Changing teacher training also costs a lot. It is also about economic priorities. An action that should not have cost so much would have been to change the regulations of the Training Act so that the requirements of competence are linked to education and not just to employment. When will the Council of State make such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1035	I am a little surprised that the representative Dørum says that it does not cost money. This will mean that approx. 25 pst. by teachers in Norwegian school cannot have a job in Norwegian school because they do not currently have the skills to be asked for if you are going to have requirements related to education. In fact, there would have been many thousands of teachers who had no job, so I guess that's not what the representative Dørum was thinking about. We will now, before the summer, submit to consultation proposals that if you are a pre-school teacher, or if you are going to be a secondary school student, you will be required to undergo immersion in Norwegian and mathematics, possibly in English. Then we will have over time, together with the educational organizations and KS, a process in which we will change the regulation permanently, for teaching. In that case, we'll have to do it over a few years, because we have the teachers we have in school, and that means it'll take time to give teachers new knowledge that will give them the depression we want. The proposal that the representative, Mr Dørum, is making more sense to me that he has a sense of willingness for them to have it. I agree with that declaration of willingness. So in practice, if this had been introduced from the next school year, there would have been a lot of tens of thousands of teachers who had no jobs. I guess that's not what the representative thinks.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1045	The notice of cancellation provides for the introduction of a model for parental contracts. I made my contribution to the Parenting Committee for the Primary School's view of this, and I pointed out that the Progress Party supports the proposal that the concept of cooperation agreements should be used instead. The Progress Party also wants the student to be involved in the work of clarifying expectations between home and school, and promotes a separate proposal, no. 21, which we're probably standing alone here today. However, we have a hope that the Council of State, which he said wanted to cooperate with the opposition, will nevertheless take further the views of the Progress Party. The participation we provide for the student in the relationship between home and school is based on Norwegian health legislation, where children are guaranteed a statutory right of expression in relation to consent from the age of 12. Will the Council of State help to ensure that the student is also consulted in cooperation between home and school, or is it more important to care for the interests of sick children than the interests of Norwegian schoolchildren?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1054	Let me say, as a general consideration, yes, I am constantly listening to the opposition. In many questions, even when it comes to education policy, I think that there is not one party that has all the answers to what is right or wrong. In the cooperation between parents and school – as I underlined in the response to the representative Eriksen’s reply – I am very positive that we can find new cooperation venues and that this will happen to all children. All children have the good thing that parents, or adults, engage in school business, that the school opens up to parents, to the world out there, and that the school is not a closed business that carries on its stuff in secret. How to do this can be a little bit different, and I think it has to be completely open how to actually organize things. In Norway, we have chosen to organise the national through the FUG, an organisation supported by the Ministry. So this is solved locally through collaboration bodies in school. We have now proposed a parental contract. This doesn't have to be a timeless answer. There may be other arenas and other ways to do this. That's why I'm probably also seeing the party's strong commitment as part of an important input into how we're going to make sure that parents have a role in school. And as a basic attitude, I'm positive with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1063	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1066	I spent the Passover in Zambia – a country with 67 p.m. the population lives on less than 1 dollar per year. day(s) I visited a preschool in a town called Kitwe. At that school it goes about. 140 children aged three to six, divided into four teachers. For poor countries, the interest and importance of educating their children is high. They're the future. In the eyes of each child, there is hope. Children can help get out of poverty and develop countries in the right direction. In preschool they had classroom education, but access to sheets and pencils was minimal and, of course, precious. The kids learned the alphabet from the age of three, and they learned to count from the first year. But the understanding of what numbers really were was absent. When the teacher was going to test the students at the end of the school year and see what they were doing, he asked them to pick up five stones from the playground. Most people came back with a total wrong number, like a handful. The announcement we are debating today is called ‘... and no one was left. Early efforts for lifelong learning’. The Stoltenberg II government collided with research and education in its own department of knowledge — this to show that kindergartens are important in a lifelong educational cycle. But we need to know how the kids learn the best possible way, and in this area we need research. The parents of Zambia make enormous demands on the schools. It's their hope out of poverty. Every day, these parents will have proof and see the results of what their kids have concretely learned. Norwegian parents also make higher and higher demands. The Labour Party welcomes the fact that the Ministry will continue practical research under the direction of the Norwegian Research Council, in particular research focusing on the content and quality of kindergartens. Kindergarten shall provide the basis for lifelong learning and active participation in a democratic society. The government has facilitated the achievement of the goal of full child-care coverage during 2007. One of the objectives in the future should be to increase the number of minority-speaking families to choose kindergarten. Only 54 pst. by the minority language children today make use of that offer. The variations between kindergartens are large, and children encounter school everyday life with very different starting points. Students who have not acquired sufficient basic skills from primary school often have problems following secondary education. The same can be said about the transition from kindergarten to primary school. For children in kindergarten, the transition to primary school will be easier, especially for children in families with a different mother tongue than Norwegian. I believe that one of the greatest challenges we have today is to reduce economic bias and eradicate poverty. In the richest countries of the world, we cannot be aware that, in some cases, the population is discriminated against and disparate because of its background, skin color, orientation, economics, education, work and health status. Everyone should have equal opportunities to evolve and make their dream a reality. The school is the place where everyone meets, regardless of these factors. The director's daughter meets the son of a reindeer. This is why the school is central to social equality, and this should be exploited to a much greater extent than it is today. International surveys show that there are a number of countries that are more successful in social cohesion in school than in Norway. Weaknesses in system and practice contribute to a relatively strong link between family background and gender in Norway on the one hand and learning outcomes on the other. I will pay tribute to the Minister of Knowledge for putting social cohesion in school on the agenda with this big message, and give tribute to the Government for putting social cohesion on the agenda in the education sector, but also at the big-time announcement of inequalities in health and in the big-time announcement of work, well-being and inclusion. One of the biggest challenges we face in high school today is the drop-out. 25 pst. of those who started training on a basic course for the first time in 2000, discontinued in five years. Whether or not a person completes secondary education is related to the family background. Parents with only primary education are more likely to have children who drop out of secondary education than parents with short or long-term higher education. There is generally a higher degree of completion in the normal time of preparatory courses than in professional directions. Among the students who started in secondary education in 2000, 38 pst were aborted. in the professional direction, against 15 pst. in preparation for the study. Students from the three northernmost counties – Finnmark, Troms and Nordland – have a higher drop-out rate than students from the other counties. Clearly, lack of basic skills is a reason for the failure. There are many different courses in higher education, but few students use the different courses and know what is possible. The 2+2 model is the most common in the professional field. For some students, a letter-of-mortgage scheme will be the right one, and by formalising this scheme, more people will choose different courses. Many also fall away because there are currently insufficient apprenticeships. Last year we got 2,500 new apprenticeship places, but still there are many qualified ones that don't fit. Both state enterprises, private business and municipalities must work to attract more apprentices. Close cooperation with the trade union movement to establish more apprenticeships around the municipalities is in place. Without a diploma or a diploma, you are 17-year-old or 18-year-old on a bar hill. It will be difficult to get a job, and further higher education will be far ahead of time. Without a job and without a school and a class to apply for membership, everyday life can be rather tough. The aim must be for everyone to develop in line with their own expectations and objectives. Students must then be helped on the way and guided in the right direction by contact teachers and advisers. A good advisory service will reduce the likelihood of both re-election and non-response. This is important in secondary and secondary education, but also in the choice of higher education. It's expensive for society, but also for yourself, to choose wrong education. It is not satisfactory that many take the first year of a series of studies before they find out what they really want to be. Today, we have one adviser who takes care of both the vocational guidance and the social educational advice. Social educational advice should be provided in close cooperation with the PPT, the school health service, the follow-up service, contact teachers, etc. In the Nordic countries, Akershus and Telemark counties, regional partnerships for career guidance have been tested. After visiting two of these states, I have no doubt that the willingness to share the counselling service is present, and that the need is great. These three measures are cooperation between municipalities, county councils, NAV, universities and colleges and the social partners locally. Projects have received a lot of positive feedback, and a nationwide scheme should be the next step. The working party wants the counselling service to continue to be associated with the school, as close as possible to the users. Norway has one of the world’s best schools, but over 400,000 adults in Norway have so little literacy and numeracy that they may have problems working in everyday life. The students generally thrive at school, and a clear majority say they never bully, nor have they ever been bullied. School management has high professional expectations for students, and students receive continuous follow-up and are rewarded for good work. The younger part of the population has a higher level of education than their parents on the basis of their assumptions. Norwegian school is free of charge and will continue to be so. This ensures the highest possible participation of all social groups. Nevertheless, the motivation of school today is low, and the educational environment is characterised by trouble and unrest. We have major challenges, including: in the case of drop-out and a good advisory service. I think the school in the past has been seriously underestimated as an arena for social cohesion, but the school we have in Norway today has many important social equivalency values. Everyone goes to the same school, regardless of background. I believe this leads to respect and tolerance for other people. To some extent, the differences in school reflect the differences in society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1100	We're different, we humans. In our choices along the path of life, there is one thing that is more prominent than anything else: our inequality. The reasons why we're different, and why some are more similar than others, are probably multi-faceted. No matter how much research will be available, there will always be relationships that we can't explain. Inequality is something positive. It contributes to diversity, creativity and development. No one can imagine a country, and much less a world, where people should be equal. If it had been man's natural state to be like other people, we wouldn't be human, but something completely different. Then, unfortunately, we have some political idealists who believe that the world's diverse people should be made as equal as possible. They will govern the natural behaviour and development of humans, so that they fit into the political framework in which these politicians want to penetrate them. All such attempts over time have been disastrous. Only raw use of power can keep man's inequality down. That's why I'm looking at the starting point for St.meld. No 16, and not least many of the posts from the government parties per. today. In it it is not that I see the big message as totalitarian or an attempt to keep someone down with power, but in some areas I seem to see clearly the traces of the thought that underlie part of the totalitarian: we're all going to be equal. Actually is the starting point for St.meld. No 16 a little strange for a communication on education policy, because it therefore presents the Government's policy on how the education system should contribute more to social cohesion. The communication does not have as a motivation and as a starting point how we can best facilitate greater individualisation in the educational system, with a focus on individual pupils’ abilities and developments. This is, of course, one of the perspectives on the action page, but it is not the motivation for the communication. The motive is to make people alike. The government calls it equalizing differences. It can be done by forcing the good guys to get worse. This reduces the distance between students with so-called low backgrounds and students with so-called high backgrounds. Or one can force students to choose courses that they themselves do not want. What's the big problem with a plumber's son wanting to be a plumber? Is it really a public task to get involved in it? From the past, we are aware that Norwegian students have worse professional outcomes than students in countries with which we can compare. This is true despite the fact that no one spends more money and resources on education than Norway does. For decades, Norwegian education policy has been based on the idea of equality. We should all learn the same amount in the same long or short term. The result is discouraging. Nevertheless, a number of positive changes have taken place in recent years, and the Knowledge Promise is one of several steps towards shifting focus from equality to equivalency and individual skills. That's good. Several of the main messages follow up on such a change of direction. The Education Association has said strikingly that the main content of the message should have been summarised as follows: early efforts all the time. The progressive party believes that the goal will be to lift everyone. It is important to facilitate individual training and follow-up as early as possible. Not only at school, but also during a school life, conditions may arise that affect school performance, for example. dissolution of the family, illness, changes in friends, changes in friends, etc. There are many factors that affect the individual’s choice, but the point is that, in any case, it will be the individual’s choice that is crucial to the outcome. The role of the school should therefore not primarily be social cohesion but organisation, so that everyone can make informed choices. It is not an objective that anyone who wants to be a plumber should be convinced that he is going to be a nurse or a lawyer. It is not a goal for students with parents with a university background to be convinced that they should become electricians. The goal of education policy must be to build up individuals based on their own assumptions, abilities and choices to be the best of the best in the field they want. At the same time, many students are hampered by the fact that their parents do not put education and knowledge particularly high in life. Many capable talents risk being discouraged by their parents rather than being motivated. Often the attitudes of parents are due to their own background and that they themselves have not prioritised life, and that therefore it is not necessary for the offspring to give the same priority. The Storting Message therefore highlights several issues that it is important to pursue, namely to lay the foundation for what the Advance Party calls informed choices. But those who think it can only be done through school are probably very wrong. If the home is no longer involved in children’s relationships with the school, the constructive information and information work in the school may be taken to heart as soon as the students come home to tell us about it. Measures in relation to the parents and the parent role must therefore be carried out to a significantly greater extent than that provided by the message. And the best ones to contribute to such a process are, of course, the parents themselves, both through the Parental Committee of Primary School and not least through more direct participation in school management. As you know, the party of progress will open up parents' schools, where parents contribute directly to school management and even better facilitate the involvement of parents, including those parents who today have a limited commitment. A number of the measures proposed in the Communication are being fully endorsed by the Storting today, but the number of minority proposals is an indication that there is a great deal to be done in relation to the government’s recordings. A number of measures will be put to the stand if government parties do not turn around and support some of the minority proposals today. That the government parties, for example, does not support the proposals No. 1 to 6 and proposals Nos. 8-11, is extremely difficult to understand, because all these proposals – which are behind all opposition parties – make it reasonable to follow up, and this would have strengthened the notification significantly. But I understand, based on Mr Enger's reply to a reply here today, the reason why they do not consider the minority proposals. She says they haven't looked at them. If the cooperation situation is such that the government parties do not even look at the minority proposals ahead of voting in the Chamber, then both the words of the Prime Minister and the Council of State stand here from this pulpit on cooperation with the opposition to shame. I don't think that's very worth it. I think it is relevant in such an image to draw on an experience from the trip of the RUF Committee to India. We were at a worn-out public school. In a small classroom of three to four times five meters, there were 60 students and they followed the teacher with argus eyes. There we saw the learning glow. The students saw and knew how important education was to their future lives. A girl in her ten-year-old age got up while we sat out in the schoolyard and thanked us for coming to see how nice they were at school. So she saw us right into her eyes and said, "We're going to be a lot better than you've ever thought you could be." She said it with experience, with commitment, and she saw us right into our eyes. She had dreams. She had set her goal. She had an individual training plan. And I think she's going to achieve her goal, because the school focuses on getting her qualities, strengthening what she's good at, following her up as an individual, and allowing her to compete. Dreaming is a powerful driving force for man. In our dreams, we often set goals for ourselves. Daydreams are mentioned from this pulpit on several occasions, and perhaps in a slightly transferred sense, we should improve the interpretation of school staff's dreams and visions, help them put their dreams into the system and show them the way to achieving the goal. If it wasn't for dreams, humanity would still live in caves and eaten raw meat, at best.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1123	The demands of working life and society for us are a daily reminder of the importance of lifelong learning. A word of wisdom says that the person who thinks he is trained is not trained, but finished! These are wise words that we should all remember. But lifelong learning requires lifelong teachers, and here we touch a very critical point in the implementation of the Knowledge Lift. From the Right, we are not convinced that the Council of State and the message will focus enough on the teachers. In medicine, it is obvious that the surgeons are constantly up-to-date with the latest method of surgery for the patient to receive the best treatment. Why is it not that in the field of education it is equally obvious that the pedagogue has been updated at the latest in his field of education for the sake of students? Fortunately, there are exceptions, but there is a significant problem that continuing education in school has been too much of a teacher’s guide and not a school owner’s guide. There has been no effective monitoring of whether the continuing education that has taken place has actually met the needs of schools and students. More and more teachers are reported to have not been offered the necessary introduction into the core of the Knowledge Lift. This notification highlights the importance of basic skills in order to give all children the opportunity to succeed better in training. That's good. But does the Council of State not think it is alarming that many teachers, including teachers in my home municipality, Harstad, who are governed by the red-greens, have not yet been introduced into the basic skills that are entirely central building blocks of any subject? When the Bondevik II government presented the Knowledge promise, the teacher was promoted as the main single factor in increasing the individual student’s learning outcomes and contributing to social mobility. The previous government further announced that it would invest nearly DKK 3 billion to ensure that teachers were given the necessary knowledge of the new school reform, of the pedagogical approach and of new disciplines. Today, teachers ask the country, where did this money go? I want to challenge the Council of State to start by telling the Stortinge how he wants to ensure that the funds allocated by the Stortinge to the reform-related empowerment of teachers actually go for that purpose. I have also observed that the Minister of Finance has now rustled with the ringleaders. Competent teachers are about competent employers. The question is what has been done by the State Council and the Ministry of Education in relation to the KS in relation to the responsibilities of municipalities. If I know KS correctly, I would have asked for new earrings in the yard. On the other hand, the Council of State must use the means of pressure it has for municipalities to take their employers' responsibility for teachers and the implementation of reforms more seriously. In concrete terms, it means that all – and I stress all – municipalities should be required to provide an explanation of the competence enhancement measures implemented in the context of the implementation of the Knowledge Lift. Municipalities who are guilty of an answer have a serious problem. For the autumn, the students start their second year of reform, and then it is totally unacceptable that the teachers still stand unprepared in relation to the reform. This big message places great emphasis on the importance of several hours in childhood, but of course it does not matter what the benefits of these hours are. At this point, the message is dangerously thin. It outlines no solution to the main challenge: how to get enough qualified teachers for the new hours? The right is concerned about how the kindergarten reform has progressed: the number of places has increased, and the proportion of qualified pre-school teachers has fallen. It does not provide a better offer to children, and the Right now warns against similar developments occurring in school. We do not achieve increased quality in school by several hours if the responsibility for the hours is left to the unqualified. Much indicates that the school in Finnmark is at full speed into a new teacher crisis because the proportion of teachers without education is on the rise. At that time, both the alarm clocks and the school bells should ring in the Ministry of Education. I would therefore ask the Council of State to also respond to what strategies he has to meet the new challenge we see in Finnmark, and what action he will take in the future to get enough teachers for the hour-to-day increase proposed by the Government. It could also be interesting to hear what time perspective the Council of State sees in terms of the timescale extension, because I heard neither the Council of State nor the representatives of the government parties who have had the word here today, talk about it. I ask because the message – surprisingly – does not say anything about when it is going to happen, despite the fact that the increased number of hours is highlighted as one of the most important measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1145	I think it's important to use the occasion today, where we focus on the differences in society and how these affect the education of students at school, to also show that there's a lot of positive happening both in pre-school age, in primary school, in high school and in college. We have to brag by the teacher quite a bit like the important person he is. Although in very important subjects we are relatively poor compared to other countries, the teacher and school have a high level of competence in Norway. Let's not forget that. Initially, I would also like to say that I think the big message we are handling today is very good. It is good in the sense that it gives a good description of the education system, and it points out some very serious consequences which are partly outside the education system and, of course, many within it. So we see that the differences in society don't get as smoothed out in school as we wanted. If a child has rich parents and these are highly educated at the same time, then the child's future is actually brighter than the child who doesn't have the same starting point. It is not very good to have this confirmed. In fact, the message says that the differences are reproduced. But at the same time, we know that education levels have increased in all social groups. The opposition points out that the notification does not come up with any concrete proposals. That, of course, is the privilege of the opposition. In some cases, at first sight, I might be inclined to agree. At the same time, it is not difficult to see that several of the challenges we have seen are very complex, and it is therefore required that we take time and get further evidence before we take action. But I would like to make it clear that the measures proposed are excellent, and they will help to smooth out the differences between students. The owners of the schools must also be engaged and included in the design of the good inclusive school. I am not sure that all the municipalities are so good at discussing the contents of the school as they should be. The owner in this case may be the local government. The schools that have good principals or good school management do well. But who follows up when things don't go so well? There are considerable differences between schools in Norway, and this is not only due to the background of parents. In this context, I can't help but say to a municipality that it has the financial resources needed to focus on the goal of more knowledge and that everyone is going with it. Then it's important that the school owner has good finances. Today, we see that there is a better economy in municipalities, and this in itself can help to improve the quality of life both by facilitating cooperation at school-home level and by providing and maintaining qualified staff. Norwegian education — from kindergarten through primary and higher education to lifelong learning — is in constant development. We see that the challenges are many and complicated. We have minority challenges and poverty issues. We have non-response numbers that are too large. Adapted training will also be important. Special pedagogical competence is an instrument that I want to raise and focus on on on this occasion, both because it is important for individuals who need such competence for, among other things. to adapt training properly, and also because it is important to smooth out social distinctions. There are many who are impatient in this context. Statped is impatient, universities are impatient, opposition is impatient, and I'm impatient. The main message states that the Ministry will launch an investigation into the State special education support system and the PP service. The aim is to have an overall assessment of a future comprehensive service offer and to clarify the role of the State. Some work in this area is already done, and now the time is ripe to go from word to action. I am sure that the processing of this big message will facilitate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1168	As others have been in the debate today, St.meld. No 16 much more than a message on a theme that follows a defined course. Of course not all is joy and vulture. It would have been beyond what you could expect after so long in the school desert. But it is a step in the right direction, where there is much more focus on the individual student and the abilities and opportunities on which it can be built. My concern is that there is a clear willingness to focus only on the coming student mass, and not to the same extent on those students who are currently attending primary school. It may seem that the Council of State considers this to be a lost group, as it is both with resources and lack of concrete action that students will not benefit from the goodwill of the kindergartens. Much we have to and little to do, says the Council of State. School food, individual focussing, free school material, intensive follow-up training for teachers and earmarked grants can be seen for the time being, although more and more organisations are in charge of, for example: earring, as the Progress Party wishes, in order to ensure an equivalent offer to students whether they live in a rich or poor municipality. Norway is the top in resource use per year. students but at the bottom of most other measurements of knowledge, social cohesion and level. Therefore, it is quite clear that the course needs to be changed. We need to focus more on knowledge, a greater understanding of the importance of mastering basic subjects such as math, Norwegian and English, a greater emphasis on teachers' skills in continuing education and, last but not least, to ensure future teacher training that demands the ability and facilities of each teacher to succeed in one of the most important professions we have. To improve social cohesion, a good teacher is one of the most important factors. Clearly, the role and responsibility of parents has not been the focus of the Single European Act, which we deeply regret. Without broader cooperation with the parents and a closer dialogue between home and school, we will not be able to succeed in the future in creating a good school for our children, and in smoothing social differences better. FUG needs to focus more on and gain a greater access to resources – something this message does not specify. Our children are as different as we adults, but the school day that they meet today is not adapted to this. Many children come to school without lunch in their stomachs. Others stand up alone and have to start the day with solitude and uncertainty. Many teachers are therefore more social workers than teachers. We have to go in earlier and discover the children who have problems. Here we believe that the simplification it is added to the message is good. An endless round of reforms and unclear goals also does not strengthen the ability of teachers to follow up on individual students. It goes without saying that teachers should be able to disseminate knowledge and see the individual student, there are some criteria that must be at the bottom. In a school where 70 pst. teachers confirm that noise and unrest are a major problem, it is difficult to succeed. Furthermore, it is important to get to a day-to-day school where the good students also face challenges and professional needs. It has to be over that teachers have to spend a lot of their time getting settled in the class instead of focusing on the professional. With regard to the importance of the mass of buildings in which knowledge is to be disseminated – where one often sees that large public spaces, test projects and unbridled solutions can hinder learning and not least provide a basis for bullying the weakest – there is little impact in St.meld. No 16th@item: Discipline, working order and order in the classroom can only be achieved with a teacher who is safe on himself and his leadership role. Therefore, continuing training of teachers is one of the criteria for this. Furthermore, it is essential that teacher training and the requirements we set for it be strengthened. The new teacher students will have to go through a teacher training course that places far greater demands on suitability and professional knowledge. Teachers must be given the opportunity to show clear leadership, limitation, and an opportunity to give each student a professional learning outcomes – because it is such that demarcation actually means that some people care. All children are best at something, we just have to find the area. Giving our children self-confidence is the key to success, regardless of social background. Here, parents' responsibilities come in much more clearly. In modern school days, among other things, computer tools and knowledge of their use a must for parents to be able to follow up their child in many subjects. We see here an increased difference between children who have parents who control data and parents who don't. That's why St.meld is. No 16 a good start, but it's still a long way until we're where we should have been a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1194	We are in the process of implementing the promise of knowledge in primary school – a reform of which there is a great political consensus. But if the promise of knowledge is to give the result we want, it has to be arranged for everyone to have a promise. So let's go through St.meld. No 16, which we treat today. Adapted training is a central concept in the implementation of the Knowledge Lift, as it has also been in the implementation of L97. However, the school lacks research-based systems for assessing individual students, so that the individual's education is based on the student's strengths and what he or she is good at. But school owners and some schools are experimenting with methods to better provide each student with good education, although today we can actually get the impression of something else. In my home municipality, all schools and kindergartens have introduced a method called MILL, which stands for Many Intelligence, Learning Styles and Learning Strategies. This is a method for assessing both the strengths of the individual and the way in which teaching can be conducted and evaluated. Last Friday, I visited Stiklestad school. They use the MILL programme and have gained experience with it. I also saw how teaching worked by visiting two fourth classes. The method is partly controversial, as several claim that it helps to put the students in the booth. It did not experience business leaders, principals, teachers and parents at Stiklestad school. On the contrary, they thought it was a good tool to adapt the teaching to the individual student. Parents expressed that they were surprised at how much their kids were good at, and what could be used as a starting point for more learning. The kids themselves were also very proud of everything they were good at. The method had taught the teachers from colleagues in another municipality, where they had hospitated. It tells me that what appeared during the NOCUT evaluation of teacher training, also votes for my home municipality. R & D work in today's school takes place in each municipality and school without being anchored in an active research and development environment. The head of the growing-up area where Stiklestad school is located then also lacks a national foundation for the development work they carry out. So I'm glad we're in St.meld. No 16 and in the case we are dealing with today, we are saying that we need better legislation on the national framework for individual assessment, and that we realize that we need to do something about school assessment competence. The fact that we are also proposing a national research programme for the education sector helps to strengthen this work. I think all the people I met last Friday appreciate that. They are genuinely concerned with creating quality in the teaching of individual students and want a better framework and more knowledge of the methods that produce results. Finally, a few words about the teacher training that is under assessment in the wake of the NOCUT evaluation report. I think we're all concerned that we're going to get a teacher education that's more adapted to the school reality we have today. More skills are required for the school and in the subjects in which you teach are important. Therefore, it is with pleasure that I record that the Minister of Knowledge has given the University of Westfold the opportunity to start the education of teachers for secondary school. I have also registered that the Nord-Trøndelag High School from the fall offers teacher training in the real subjects. There are probably many other examples of a teacher training student taking seriously the feedback NOCUT gave and sincerely wanting to get to the teacher training in line with what society is asking for. But there is still a long way to go until education and school owners/individual schools work together well on school development. I think it's going to be crucial for the development of the school that we get a regional research and development environment, linked to the teacher training institutions, which have good contact with the school everyday life in their region, as the Government advocates. In addition, it is essential to ensure the future that students are actively involved in R & D work, so that driving school development becomes something they are used to from the very first day of learning. I have great faith in Norwegian school. But St.meld. No 16 says something about the challenges we have for everyone to become a participant in the knowledge society. I have confidence that the Minister of Knowledge will follow up today and help us to make some progress on the way to the world's most inclusive societies. Education plays an important role in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1217	First, a few comments to the representative Anundsen – it may not have been so surprising. We have no plans to introduce either the International or the Mao themes or that. For us, every human being is unique. I would like to address some of the issues raised by the representative of the Progress Party, because there is another example of the double communication of the Progress Party. The problem is that the market also creates some economic problems, which in turn create some differences that make it possible for some students not to take advantage of their abilities and installations. So you're allowed to have more thoughts in your head at the same time. It is permissible to have an active economic distribution policy in a society to prevent students from exploiting their abilities and facilities due, for example, to: a difficult family situation and a difficult economy. The market cannot solve all problems. What we in the Workers' Party call justice, the Progress Party has the tradition of calling envy. But sharing the good, that the strongest back has to bear the heaviest shoulds economically, is good social democratic policy. It's justice and not envy. That's why I think it's strange that the representative also draws India out as a lopsided society, where poverty is the problem. And it's just poverty that makes the kids not get the education they should have. It's because there's a big difference between poor and rich. The market is running, and you don't have any distribution mechanisms. A fair society has always been an important principle for us in the Workers' Party. A society with great social and economic differences is a threat to the welfare state of the labour movement in Norway has been the architect behind it. In the new knowledge society, we see how new class divisions come to light. That's class distinction that we can't or will not accept. One of the main means of achieving social cohesion is therefore to use school as a tool to reduce social and economic disparities in society. I'm glad we're dealing with St.meld today. No 16 that's just taking care of this. I'm glad we're not just talking, but actually doing something, as opposed to the previous government and their support party, the Progress Party. Unlike the previous government, we give priority to a fair society. This means, among other things: In practice, there is a historical focus on kindergartens, a sharp increase in transfers to county and local authorities, free teaching material and community school investment rather than commercialisation and privatisation of the school. If this doesn't help balance differences, I don't know. Even if we add the right resources, we are humble, yet offensive, faced with the challenges facing the modern knowledge society. We need to focus more on knowledge in all age groups, children, young people and adults. Not least, we should facilitate early action to help individuals, rather than wait and see. Knowledge is a difficult concept. Some people seem to base a sloping understanding of the term. For us, it's important to clarify that knowledge is not just about skills in language and mathematics, but also about social skills. It is important that, in our eagerness to strengthen basic professional skills, we do not lose focus on human beings. There is no contrast between well-being and professional development, rather the opposite. Finally, I would like to mention a group that is traditionally given little attention when knowledge is on the agenda. They're adults. As many as 400,000 adults lack literacy skills or numerical understanding. Here it might be important to think differently. Many in this group may have negative school experience and need other arrangements. Fortunately, there is a lot of local happening here, and among other things. NAV, enterprises and study associations have launched a number of training services. These are offers that can largely show very good results. I am pleased that our government is strongly committed to this group. We do that by increasing the appropriations, among other things. the basic competence of the labour market and of the study associations. I am also absolutely sure that this is an area in which considerable resources will be invested in the years ahead. Human capital is the most important thing in our society, and then it's obviously a bad social economy that adults don't get their potential out because of lack of basic skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1244	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1247	I'd like to talk a little bit about kindergartens. Right wants children to be children in kindergarten, in an environment of great freedom and where you can learn from your own motivation and your own assumptions. It is important that kindergartens open the door and provide children with experience so that they can participate in society outside the kindergarten gardens. Natural creativity must not be overarched by pedagogical measures and requirements for instrumental interaction. The primary task of pre-school teachers is to facilitate the provision of children with opportunities for wealth and good experiences, opportunities to deal with adversity and to be required. They must also have the necessary point competence, so that children with specific challenges receive good and relevant follow-up. This is particularly true in relation to the linguistic challenges faced by some children, either through linguistic dysfunctions of different kinds or because the child has a different native language. The right has proposed the introduction of a nationwide mapping of the language skills of all four-year-olds by 2009. A screening tool, «Language 4», has now been used at selected health centres. On the right, the research and evaluation of this programme is of the opinion that a better evaluation should be carried out and that tools other than this one must also be opened up. Research in this area must also include measures for children who are not in kindergarten. The kindergarten sector is developing rapidly, and more and more young children are spending more and more time in kindergarten. There is full agreement that kindergarten provision should be of high quality. The concept of quality is difficult to define and different groups have different meanings in their content. Pedagogues define it in one way, parents will define quality in another. What's good quality may not be so easy to agree on. In this work, it is important to take into account that both kindergarten, pedagogical staff, parents and kindergarten owners are given sufficient freedom to make representations about what this is, i.e. how to want the best possible kindergarten to be. Right wants significantly stronger research in this area. We think that more knowledge and more knowledge are needed in order for us to be able to create a better quality kindergarten. The key assumption in the cooling water is that this knowledge is shared and made available to all actors working with kindergartens. For the Right, it is clear that a high-quality kindergarten is about real diversity. This means that there should be room for all actors, not least the private ones, and that research knowledge should be shared among all actors in this arena.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1262	There is an important theme The Government has seen on the agenda here. From my own school day, I think too well of some of the people who were left, who got red lines in the book, whatever they did, who got an unimaginable bad start on life in a school that wasn't adapted to them outside the A4 pattern. Unfortunately, the theme is equally topical today. I believe and hope that following up the message will lead to more children and young people actually getting a better start and a better life. I want to focus on a couple of themes that are not of the most central in the message, but that I still think is important to bring with me. The point about the learning environment says that all the elephants have the right to a good physical environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. We know that the state of many school buildings around the country is bad. The last time this month, schools in the Ålesund region have been at risk of being disconnected due to health risks. We also know that many municipalities, despite the joyful investment in the local economy from the new government, are tired of resuming the maintenance run that has accumulated after many years of starving feeding. That's why I'm glad that the 2007 government phased into the last two billion of the state loan framework for the renovation of school buildings. I am even more pleased that one in the Soria Moria Declaration promises that the system will be passed on and strengthened. This is absolutely necessary! The second theme I want to mention has to do with language. The message reads: ‘Languages provide for the possibility to communicate and contribute to the formation of identity and belonging in a community.’ I want to remind you that we have a lot of kids with a lot of different languages here in the country. The message focuses on minority language young people and their specific needs. I would also like to remind you of the two official writing languages that we have here in the country. Having access to textbooks and other teaching materials in their own way should of course be the case, including for the neo-norms. In addition, the article in the chapter on multiple learning venues mentions the cultural school as an important cultural policy initiative. Language is an important part of culture. Strengthening linguistic and cultural identity is an important objective. Language policy leaders should therefore be involved in the further development of the school system. In my view, funding should be provided for pilot projects for the development of artistic and cultural services targeted specifically at neo-Norwegian elephants. Self-responsiveness is important not to be left, and being safe and proud of one's own language is one of the factors that can ensure this. In Volda, plans are now under way for a centre of cultural production and dissemination. There may be a useful venue for this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1282	The deadline for applying for higher education was one hour ago. That means that there are many of us who have had to put our heads in soft and have thought about what we're going to be. Unfortunately, this happens all too often alone and on the basis of a little little too little facts about the choices we have. We know that the result for many will be reelection and new study. That's the way it is in high school. 11.7 pst. Among the students who attended a basic course in 2003, they were still on the basic course the following year. I have no doubt that this is a lot because they did not receive the advice they needed. Today's system does not guarantee students the right to advice they have. Nor does it ensure that the competence of the adviser is good enough. It is therefore disappointing that government parties will not support opposition proposals for more education for advisers. Because we have to get away from a situation where teachers who are not working are relocated to advisers. But I'm afraid the government's proposal doesn't take enough on board. Equally important is focusing on the psychosocial learning environment. It's only when the students thrive at school that they want full benefits. And when students thrive, they will also make it easier to finish school. We know that the pressure on youth has increased. Fashion, slimming and I after the perfect meeting on TV and magazines. The number of young people with mental problems is only increasing. The waiting lists do the same thing – they're getting longer and longer. In my home country, East-Agder, every student in high school has the opportunity to spend an average of 63 seconds in a nursing sister every week. This is dramatic when we know how important a conversation with a health sister can be. Well-being at school is so much more than professional challenges. A major effort on school health and the psychosocial environment will lead to healthier and safer students. And this will lead to more people completing their education and taking advantage of their potential. The goal of the Christian People's Party is for everyone who goes to school to become a winner. To achieve this, it is important to combine knowledge with a good and safe learning environment in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1297	The government has provided a good and thorough survey report with concrete proposals for action to achieve a school that contributes to the smoothing of social disparities. ‘...and no one was left’ is an ambitious message — and it should be. We know through studies and research that we have a school that doesn't help balance differences, but reproduces and to some extent actually reinforces them. It is not a coincidence that there is an SV State Council that provides such a message, because SV is occupied by the individual student and that all students will succeed in their own lives and in school. For too many years and to the dismay of too many children, the belief that children will grow up over time has lived. If little Espen can't read, write or understand mathematics, this will mature with age. But it's not like that. What has happened is that too many children have lost so much knowledge and have seen no chance to take this back in retrospect. This, in turn, has led to too many children turning against knowledge and against school. I have read an article from the ADHD association saying that it takes about four years for an ADHD child to get a diagnosis, and only after diagnosis does the child get help as often as possible. Children should have help when they need it, not when it is too late. This is a new proposal that this government is making. That the opposition pulls it away and says that this is not important, gets up to them, but what this government is doing is putting every child in the center – and it's important for us. The examination debate has been a debate that the right-hand side likes to run, where exams are synonymous with quality in school. What we know now is that it's much more important to focus on the learning-building feedback that happens daily in school. This government will be committed to strengthening student assessment in school. SV wants to make demands for students every day and not just for exams. When it comes to the evaluation of Reform 97, research shows that the systematisation of knowledge in the classroom is too poor. Teachers do not master giving good enough feedback to students; what is expected of them, how to learn and how to develop. This government is doing something about it. I have to say that I am strongly provoked by the opposition, and especially the Christian People's Party, when they say that this government is not concerned with school-home cooperation. They take the most serious mistakes that it is possible to make. In every measure we take, we have our home in the center. It is vital that school and home play on a team. It is necessary and essential for the success of children in school. But the difference between the Christian People's Party and us – SV and the Government – is that when we do something, we bet. We keep our word, and we do what we say we do. In the budget this year, we have increased the allocation to FUG. We've increased the responsibilities of the parental committee for primary school. We also have many comments on this in the budget. It was SV who ensured that the Christian People's Party's proposal that the parental committee for primary school should be placed under the directorate was not adopted, and that it was not agreed that the parental committee for primary school should be removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1323	We know a lot about inequalities in society. Research over many decades has shown how inequalities are inherited. It has shown how parents’ financial assumptions determine the ability of children and young people to pursue abilities and installations, how they again transfer them to the next generation, and they again to the next generation. But the social heritage is not just economics. Children of the former child-restraint are overrepresented in the current child-restraint. Children of addicts are overrepresented among current addicts. Overtakers and abusers often have a background of abuse and abuse themselves. Despite this knowledge, we as a society lack structures that can break the social heritage. The Norwegian single school and education system have contributed to a wider range of possibilities for developing skills and facilities. In recent years, however, we have seen a frightening development of misguided language training for minorities and that this has led to many having difficulty in completing their continuing training, which in turn creates difficulties in the labour market. But the problem starts before school. Language skills are a prerequisite for success in school. Efforts at language development therefore need to be put in place before school starts. Similarly, unlucky social heritage must be broken at an early stage if it is to lead to changes in individual development opportunities. Language problems or social problems need to be picked up early. The kindergarten reform and the government's kindergarten policy — when implemented — will give all children the right to a kindergarten space at a maximum price. It is thus a structural reform that will provide everyone with a better opportunity to develop skills and facilities effectively. The modern kindergarten, in addition to providing care and security for children, will help motivate children to learn and to provide them with development opportunities. It is essential that all children be given these opportunities, that the right to children's gardening becomes effective, and that such a right is neither directly nor indirectly undermined by other economic or social welfare schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1334	I need to link some comments to some of the opposition's articles. The attacks that suggest that we are not concerned with school-home cooperation and parents' role in relation to young people's learning fall into their own primacy. It has been mentioned in the message, it has been mentioned in the settings, and it was described in detail in my article. And as if that's not enough, we're not just talking about it, but we're actually doing something about it, too. The representative Lena Jensen was into it in his post, so I'm not going to comment on it beyond that, but if that's the volume of word a user in an area in a setting, which determines whether one is more for something or not, then that's what I unloaded. And then I need to make some comments about what's going on in the group approach to the question of social inequality. This message does not support group membership in the analysis of the reproduction of social inequality. On the contrary, a socio-economic variable is used. It's sociological, and it might sometimes be politically irrelevant, because it's kind of easier to draw an image of a group, but it's essential to this analysis. If so, for example. sees minority-speaking, so their minority status is not in itself the reason why there are differences between minority-speaking and majority-speaking in school performance. It also comes from socio-economic background. This does not mean that efforts are not necessary in many areas – on the contrary – but it has never been like this in the house that if we have a message that deals with one perspective and one thing, it means that we are opposite everything else. On the contrary, if there is something we have to work on, it is the problem of disability, then it is the problem of minority languages. I don't want to worry that there's something we haven't worked on, even though we've chosen another approach to try to understand why the education system reproduces social inequality instead of doing anything about it. I also think he is untimely, the criticism that is raised that we do not take the opposition seriously. On the contrary, most of the message has been translated into new Norwegian, so no one can see what the opposition initially has been the source of. But there are quite a few of the opposition's comments that we've written together in the plural, and that we've got a whole committee about. The opposition has contributed to a part here. Everyone who has our government council knows that a permission doesn't go through a big message, so there's also a shot that doesn't hit near the target. That being said, I'm going to say that we've treated our opposition in a proper way. We have also done that after the setting was made. That's why I'm going to say on behalf of the majority that we're going to vote for opposition proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox Then there's a little bit of different constellations, but on behalf of the plural, I'm going to ask that those behind the proposal no. 10, 13 and 22, assesses whether it might be appropriate to submit the proposals to the Government without proper consideration, so that we do not vote against them here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1351	Several of the speakers here today have been concerned about the dropout in secondary education. This is a serious problem, because it is causing very many young people a severe defeat, and it is, of course, also a waste of public money. The problem is big all over North Norway. At the same time, we know that trials that mean a postponement of furniture life have a positive effect and reduce the risk of non-compliance. Although such measures tend to cost something more initially, I still think it is profitable if this helps young people to survive in the first attempt. This was also the background to the fact that the Bondevik II government allowed Båtsfjord municipality as the first municipality in Norway to run secondary school in the extension of primary school. The project was launched, at that time under strong protests from the Red-Greens in Finnmark, led by the then County rapporteur, now the Fisheries Minister, Helga Pedersen. Today, there is a broad political consensus in Båtsfjord that this has been a successful arrangement, and you want an expanded offer. I think that can happen through increased organisation for several online trades. When the Justice Committee last Friday met Longyearbyen with local government, the politicians there were concerned with the same issue. More and more families have lived on Svalbard and want to stay there. The challenge will then be: How do you get a wider range of courses when you come to high school? The alternative for them is very dramatic: they have to move back to the mainland, because it does not feel good for a family to send a 16-year-old back to the mainland alone to establish themselves on the shelf. So I want to ask the Council of State if he can plan to facilitate the development of more online learning resources, so that there can be a broader and better training provision in smaller places, like in Båtsfjord and in Longyearbyen. Well, there are long distances in Finnmark, but I think we can agree that it's even further from Svalbard to the mainland. I would also challenge the Council of State to say something about whether he can guarantee that the municipality of Båtsfjord will be able to continue its project. So was the representative of Enger who made me take the floor. That was the small dispute we had in the lines of teacher training. What is correct and very serious is that NOCUT has slaughtered the old teacher training in Norway. It's delivered a large number of teachers to the school, but it's separated in its entirety. What matters is that the Bondevik II government actually reformed teacher training, with emphasis on greater professional immersion. The first coal is now approaching graduation. That means that the school will get more competent teachers. It will also mean a violation of the general approach that it has almost been a human right for teachers to be taught in any subject regardless of whether they actually have education in the field. So that's a truth with great modifications to the presentation that the representative Enger here made known.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1364	Let me first say that I am pleased with the clarification by the representative de Ruiter, where it was made clear that it is not relevant to introduce neither the International nor Mao themes in Norwegian elementary school. I also find it interesting to note that the representative believes it was so much ambiguity related to it that he had to clarify it from Stortinget's pulpit. Otherwise, the representative in his post went very strongly against the market. As far as I can recall, neither the representatives of the Progress Party nor many others have spoken about the market here today. But the market that the representative de Ruiter thinks is so dangerous is really you and me, President, and everyone else in this room and everyone else outside this room. So what the Ruiters are actually attacking is the individual's freedom of choice. Him about it! But at least I hope that we agree that we will help to strengthen the students' ability to do what the Progress Party calls informed choices. The fact that the Workers' Party will go beyond the Advance Party in influencing the students' choices will be an expression of disagreement, and we will also have some of them. Actually, I took the floor to draw attention to the fact that the Progress Party will signal support for proposal No. 22, from the Right and the Left. I also think it is worth noting that the government parties have now carefully assessed the opposition’s proposal – finally – and that they therefore also signal support for at least one proposal, and otherwise the proposers get back to the request for transmission or not in the next round. But it's better late than never.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1373	School is the only common venue for all children and young people in Norway. If the school is to continue to play an important role as this arena, it must adapt to the challenges and changes that are taking place in society. Multicultural Norway is one of the major changes affecting today’s and tomorrow’s schools. Today, more than two out of three primary schools have minority language pupils. So the majority of today's students go to multicultural schools. This provides new opportunities for teaching tolerance, respect and integration, and this is an opportunity that schools should know to take advantage of. Looking at students' professional achievements, studies show that disproportionately many with minority backgrounds have professional problems at school. This applies in all the most important theory subjects. The professional problems are not least linked to linguistic issues. Although minority language students are doing well in everyday speech, language problems become visible when it comes to concrete transformation into more complex and abstract concepts. The right is concerned that all children and young people should receive equivalent and adapted education. Language is a tool for this thinking. Language training must therefore be based on the competence of the child. Research shows that, among other things: bilingual training from 1st grade is the best way to ensure that all students understand and understand, so that they can acquire professional knowledge. I also want to put the spotlight on the learning and growth environment in school. Children and young people are entitled to a safe and healthy learning and learning environment. Problems related to violence, bullying, crime, intoxication and racism among children and young people have increased recent attention, and the situation is alarming. This is a development that all political parties must work together to turn around through a broad commitment. The attitude-building work must permeate all the activities of our schools and educational establishments. Work against racism and ethnic discrimination requires a continuous and long-term effort by the whole community. The school’s actions against problem behaviour, racism and ethnic discrimination must not be isolated but should include all pupils. In this context, it is also very important to focus on recruiting more teachers with a minority background. It's a huge challenge, because we see that there are a lot of people with minority backgrounds who don't choose this as their profession. The vision must be a school where the multicultural is used as the great resource it is, where students develop a natural openness and tolerance for the background, faith and culture of others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1390	First to SV, Lena Jensen's posts, and what the Christian People's Party has said and not said. I would recommend reading the debate afterwards. What I have pointed out is that government parties have come to recognize the school-home cooperation, but that there is a long way to go before you act. The second thing I want to comment on, and as others have commented here, is the representative Inger S. Enger's reply to me in reply, where the Central Party says that the Christian People's Party's proposal has been promoted to demonstrate. I think it bears witness to a majority arrogance that this hall does not serve, and maybe it says more about how the Center Party itself works in opposition. I can promise that we in the Christian People's Party will go into the matters we work with. We promote things that we stand for, and we want to make school a better place to be. That is why I am pleased that SV's representative Åsa Elvik is going up here and saying something about part of the proposals that the opposition has made, and that one can actually see being able to give a better solution. Then I also want to say something about this with the disabled, because it has been a topic today. I understand the argument that part of the position uses to describe why the disabled are not included. But at the same time, the rest of the position beats its legs under its own argument when you use expressions like ‘all should have equal opportunities, and this message is a part of it’, ‘all should be winners, and this message is a part of it’, ‘each student should succeed, and the message is a response’. Then what's the situation for the disabled, that they get poor learning outcomes, is left standing as something very strange. I wish that we got the case about the disabled also in relation to a social cohesion idea, because it is important that we also create winners. There are no easy answers either in home-school cooperation or in the issue of non-response, there are no simple answers to how to create masters and winners in school. But I think that the position is wise in what it's done now to look at some of the suggestions, and I can promise that in the Christian People's Party we're going to focus a lot on following up what's in the message. For the most important thing we can do for the growing generation, is to create masters and winners, and that should be our main goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1402	Just a few brief comments: the representative Elvik said that there was no collective or group approach. No, no one has had in this case. It has had neither the Government, the majority fraction in the Committee nor the minority. On the contrary, one has been concerned about how individuals should have a chance to cope. When lifting e.g. disabled persons, it is for individuals with such a background to be able to manage their lives properly on the basis of systematic insight and experience. And on the question of linguistic minorities, it's the school as the integration arena that's the theme, not how to approach it collectively. For example, as justified, with much, joyful, cross-commitment, in all batches, it is shown. on how the Oslo school has both produced good results in meeting with very many individuals with a minority language background, and in other areas has a lot to pick up and develop. So it's amazing, you'd almost think that a proposal to look at school as the integration arena should be one of the proposals that would gather up. Similarly, in the case of people with drug addiction — well, it’s just a matter of following up that you should have a chance to come back if you’ve stumbled. It's not a collective approach, it's an individual approximation -- I think it's right to establish it. With regard to priorities, any debate in the Grand Duchy is about priorities, including a big-time report. In the context of this big business message, the Government and government parties strongly signal that they will give priority to extending school time at the beginning of the school cycle for young people. Well, there's a debate about it – given that you don't only have all the crowns you want in any direction – and then I've agreed to go in for, together with other parties in the opposition, that before we start expanding school time, we're going to make sure that there are dollars to the efforts that are already there in the form of teacher training. Similarly, when we're dealing with e.g. promoting a proposal for a regulation on education, it is clear from the premise that there is nothing to be done overnight. I'm glad the council took it in a factual and constructive way, and then I noticed, to be constructive, his declared ambition at that point. But to make it clear: that means that you have an ambition that, to put it clearly in Norwegian, puts a pressure on the system of continuing training and the reform of teacher training. You can never do anything like this overnight in a country like Norway, with the complex education system we have, but you choose an ambition. I have said earlier in this debate that ambitions must be chosen, between the ambitions of looking at school as an arena to bring knowledge and vital skills, and to look at school as a general welfare arena. That, I think, is a main priority that will remain after this debate as well, and as I think it has been important to highlight. Then I think it's constructive that the government parties come up with signals. I'm anxious to await what the Council of State has to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1409	It has been interesting to follow up on this debate, and at this stage I was a little in doubt if I could bring something new to the debate. I take the floor anyway, because I have many years behind me as a pediatric physiotherapist in school and in kindergarten. Among other things, I have working with young people with complex problems and with disabled children, young people who needed help from teachers and from pre-school teachers, but also from other competent professional groups. I felt that the kids didn't get the help they were supposed to have, especially because the school had the impression that we have to wait and see, because this can go over. I am very pleased that this big message gives such a clear answer, that this should no longer be the position. As the Council of State said earlier, efforts should be made early in the training process and early in the event of problems. As a paediatric physiotherapist, I know that when kids have problems of some kind, it can be discovered quite early, because these problems often result in physical and motor rash. This includes, among other things: Therefore the kindergartens are so incredibly important, and all kids are given the opportunity to go there. Kids need good mastery experiences and to be seen, and if they don't get that help, the many defeats will lead to mental stress, behavioral problems, and they're just standing still. Both the Council of State and the rapporteur stressed the importance of a good schoolleader. Last week I visited Mjølkeråen school in Bergen, and then I really experienced a school principal who was clear and inspiring to the teachers and engine in a lot of good development work. I'll draw out two examples. The school focuses on outdoor school and physical activity and on using the forest and nature around as the learning arena. Parts of the math education e.g. is going on outside. Experiences were more contented students, more masters' experiences, greater cooperation between students who see strengths in fellow students that they don't see, and thus better learning. I'm very happy that someone now understands how important physical and motor activity is for kids to learn better. The second good example from Mjælkeråen school is the development of school library. A good school library that cooperates with the public library is important for professional needs, but also as the social arena where kids can meet across ages. The message says that there are more examples like this, but it's too random. I really look forward to upgrading the libraries. There is much we can learn from Finland, for example: the importance of good libraries for literacy and literacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1420	There's reason to put words on the challenges we have in Norwegian school. We have a cross-political consensus on quality and knowledge, and we should have the economy and competence to have the best school in the world. Equally full drops too many out of high school. The school produces differences and the school produces losers — unfortunately. In his intervention in the debate today, the Minister of Knowledge said that he is concerned that many students do not get basic knowledge and skills in school, and he is and should be concerned about those who do not have the power to complete a high school course. But is it certain that more Norwegian, more math and more English is the answer for more people to experience mastering in school, not least in high school? I think we have to do more things. There is a right to do more in relation to the counselling of high school students, and it is right to give advisers in high school more competence and resources. Yes, it is right to look at the contents of high school, as the Minister of Knowledge said, especially for the professional courses where the dropout is the largest. But the Christian People's Party doesn't think a finder answers all the questions about why the young drop out, just looking at high school. I think the problems start earlier for many young people. Lack of mastery in primary and not least secondary school can be the main reason why students are unable to complete secondary school. The Christian People's Party wants a more practical schooling in high school. Not everyone succeeds in a theory school. More people have to feel mastery. They must succeed. More Norwegian, math and English are not wrong, but that's not necessarily the answer for all students. More time for practical subjects and practical activities and electives will lead to the success of more students. It's a cross of thought that we talk a lot about custom training in Norwegian school, but we're holding on to the fact that all students are going through the same theory-based primary school. Here, there's little room for customization. The Christian People's Party will encourage the Minister of Knowledge to listen to those who want to create a greater opportunity for practical activity for all high school students and more practical schooling for individual students. I believe that, together with the strengthened health sister service in high school, this can provide more mastery and less ‘drop-outs’. Adapted training must not mean that students have to adapt to school, but that school is so liberal and flexible that it does not create bad experiences for individuals, those who can stay standing. We have to create the school that captures them along the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1433	Let me say at the tame of the debate something that I think is perceived as gathering. It becomes easy in the political change of words that you focus on what there is the most disagreement about. It is natural, because it is in the nature of politics. At the same time, in some areas of policy — and education is one of them — it is the policy of the long lines that is important to focus on what one government is doing, to build on new governments, and on what one big one decides, to build on new growth. It's that way, through the long lines, you make a good education, because it's not possible within just a few years to make big changes that actually matter. It's over the half-life you can see if the changes have worked. What we're doing here is building on what many governments before us have done, the knowledge of what doesn't work, but also the knowledge of what works. A discussion of whether it is the party or the party that has the honor or not for what has happened, I see as pointless discussion. I think someone's invited to it, but let me say that I think the most important thing in the semi-long run is what you're agreed on, what you're going to build on. It is such that this big business message is based on the work and knowledge that others have acquired and that has also been discussed in the Stortinget in the past. I think with respect to report that there is not one big message submitted to Stortinget in the past that has seven pages of literature reference. When I say that, it's to emphasize the research-based and knowledge-based in what's available here, that's the best thing we know today about what's working, and then we invite the Storting to debate, and I'm glad that the Storting through this debate has shown that one in general believes that these grips are important, and that one will build on what's best in Norwegian school and education tradition. When I say it like that, it's because a debate can get a little big words, but in the long run you've forgotten the big words, and you've forgotten the solid work that results. I'm very pleased that the Storting agrees, and that the big and the government has the same agenda, that we have many big and small grips that will in the future make us get a better school, which makes several of our children succeed. That's what the timeless perspective is, that school is the arena where our children will succeed. If they don't succeed in school as the arena, we'll see that they're equipped with disabilities that they can't easily pull off at adult age. This, therefore, is difficult to see in isolation from what is happening at school. What we're doing now for kindergartens is naturally related to what happens to the kids who succeed at school, and to those who don't succeed. This is the first time that we have a big message that has this lifelong learning perspective, from pre-school age and actions there and right up to university and college. I am also pleased with the broad approach many have had in the debate and in the vote, and we will build on this in cooperation with the Stortinget. I'm glad. I have been challenged to submit some proposals to the department. We are dealing with many things in our department, and I can confirm that these three proposals – the proposals No. 10, 13 and 22 - are among the things we're looking at. So if there is a wish from the Storting to submit these proposals, we will deal with them with the greatest seriousness. We also have proposal No. 6, which I sensed that the majority parties have signaled that they want to support. I think that's a good suggestion to support, and I'm also pleased – even under the same vignette, namely that it's a word that says that on educational issues there is not one party that has all the wisdom, but that it's the collective wisdom that enables us to make a better school.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1450	I note that the Council of State needs to ensure that it is largely agreed. I think that the debate has been too calm in many ways today in relation to the seriousness of the problem we are facing, that there are so many who actually fall outside the school, and we may be a bit in danger, as it is said in a saying, that where everyone thinks alike, nobody thinks much. You always have to take care of that. What we've been asking for is actually the ambitions and the concreteness of the measures. I note that the case rapporteur tried to turn it into an ideology that could be turned the other way. It has nothing to do with ideology. It has to do with actually nailing some ambitions and being specific about how to reach them. There is a long wish list for action here, but as long as it is not cost-effective and no one is cost-priority, it does not get the full credibility either. But we're going to hope the council comes back with it quite quickly. We also note that ideologically speaking, there have not been any particularly marked advances in the debate either. The right-hand school is adopted in many ways, as I see it, except in some fields, where the ideological roller blind has been pulled down. I note that the Council of State was concerned about it not so important who had found things. I totally agree with that, but we could imagine thanking you for the loan of the clothes when you use them. So that's the comment. With regard to the proposals that have been raised, it is clear that we are very pleased to support proposal No. 6th@item: inlistbox With regard to proposals Nos. 10, 13 and 22, we are surprised that we have not received support for special proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox There we know that there is a cross-political consensus in the South-Tronde Team on the desire to have a national centre for learning and skills development at NTNU. In fact, we have been a little surprised by the treatment that there has not been any support for that proposal in the past. There I've actually asked that we get a confirmation that it will come back to the state budget for next year. It was not confirmed by the Council of State. I'm sure there's a lot of work going on in the department, but before we let that proposal be sent, we'll have a confirmation that you'll get back to it already in the state budget for 2008. We do so a little in the light of some experience with such transmission proposals. We had a Document No. Eight motions for resolutions, document Nos. 8:10 for 2005-2006, on a scheme with specified rights for primary education for adults. We were also promised that we would come back with a case of our own. Nothing has yet happened, even with such a serious problem. I therefore ask that it be made clear that we will come back to proposal No. 13 in connection with the 2008 state budget, before I confirm that it is possible to transmit it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1461	This has been an interesting debate. That's a lot of commitment from many teams, and that's a good sign. We've all gone to school. Many of us in the hall are teachers, and we mean something about school. Since I have been referred a few times, I feel that I have to make some clarifications. The first was the representative from the Progress Party who quoted me as saying: to support minority proposals we have not looked at. It is possible that I expressed myself somewhat unclearly, but there is also the possibility that it was interpreted quite specifically. We can let it hang in the air without going any further, I think. However, in any case, we have now at least received proof that the proposals are being read well, because the case rapporteur came up here with – and said – that proposals should be proposed and proposals should be submitted to the Government. It's important that they not just be put in a drawer, which minority proposals can sometimes be. At least we've seen that in the past. That is why it is a good sign when someone now asks for this to be transmitted. It was supposed to be lacking, we clearly go deep into the opposition proposals as well, because I really don't see the difference between opposition and position as being so big in this case. So that's the next one. The representative Aspaker was concerned with teacher training, and referred to NOKUT and me — to put it that way. It is true that Bondevik II made minor changes in 2003 in relation to teacher training. But in the report that NOCUT delivered last autumn, they unfortunately still have a lot to say, because NOCUT emphasises, among other things. where the teacher schools do not use the action space they actually have. But now I don't think we should look at what has been. Now it's important that we look forward, collect. It has recently been consulted that there needs to be competence criteria for the addition of teachers. One therefore believes that it is important that there must be requirements for competence in mathematics and Norwegian based on which subjects to teach. It is an important starting point and an important beginning, for this is a great debate. We all want the best for our children, and we see that early efforts for lifelong learning work and are very important. Then we're going to figure out all the good tools together.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1474	The representative Aspaker has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1477	In mathematics at school, we learn that the order of the factors doesn't matter, but we also learn that there is no rule without exception. When it comes to quality in school, we have an exception here. It has to be that qualified teachers have to come first and then expand their hours. In my article and in Gundersen's articles, several specific questions were asked to the Council of State: How do you ensure that continuing education means reach the teachers? How to get enough future teachers, etc.? I note that the Council of State has recently had the floor and has failed to answer what are entirely concrete and crucial questions in terms of ensuring quality in school. So even though this is said that we can agree on a lot, I see that on absolutely crucial points the important questions are still unanswered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1484	I want to link a few comments to the post from the last speaker. If we had followed the pace of Right in School Policy, with Right's proposals historically, the reforms would have gone very late. With regard to the introduction of all extensions at primary level and also Reform 94, the Right had a waiting and seeing attitude. It has turned out in retrospect that it was not very sensible, and it is also not very sensible — at least we believe — to wait and look at the extension of primary school. So also in that area, we're going in too early. It's such an important tool that we don't have time to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1489	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 2566]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1505	The 7th EU Framework Programme for Research, Technological Development and Demonstration Activities 2007-2013 was formally adopted in the EU on 18 December 2006. Participation in this programme requires financial commitments over several years. The consent of the majority to participate in the decision of the EEA Committee is therefore necessary in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Basic Law. In order to allow Norway to participate in the programme as early as possible, the landfill proposal was promoted before the decision of the EEA Committee. The EU has decided to develop a European Research Area, the European Research Area, ERA, to ensure better coherence between national and EU research policies, to counteract fragmentation of research in Europe through better coordination of national research bodies and to create an internal market for research and development. Furthermore, the Seventh Framework Programme of the EU has as its overall objective the aim of contributing to making the EU the leading research area in the world. In order to contribute to this objective of becoming a world-leading research area, the EU is undertaking four types of activities under this Framework Programme: 1. transnational cooperation within the priority themes of the specific programme referred to as ‘Cooperation’, of which at least 15 pst. available funding shall go to small and medium-sized enterprises2. research-initiated, frontier research in the specific programme called ‘Ideas’3. strengthening the human potential of research and technology in Europe under the specific programme ‘People’4. strengthening Europe’s research and innovation capacity in the specific programme entitled ‘Capacities’ In particular, the Committee noted that synergies and complementarity should be developed between the Framework Programme and other EU programmes, including the new Competitiveness and Innovation Programme, the CIP, for which the Committee is very much in expectation. In late winter’s negotiations between Norway and the European Union on the size of the contribution to the European Union, we saw that if it stops at a time, it would have a major impact on research and Norway’s opportunities. One shall be aware that Norway’s participation provides good opportunities for long-term market positioning for innovative Norwegian enterprises, as well as contributing to enhancing the quality of Norwegian research and quality assurance through the re-acquisition of knowledge and research results, participation in central networks and input and outgoing mobility. The Committee has reached a broad consensus on approval, with an explicit emphasis on the importance of long-term budgeting over several years. The only difference appeared strangely enough on how to finance the Norwegian contribution. The previous assumption of the Storting is that the Norwegian contribution is not to be financed by the Research Fund, but is normally granted from the Ministry of Knowledge’s budget. Government parties disagree. Unfortunately, they do not follow up on the previous premise of the Greatness, while the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party want this premise to be based. The Committee refers to the proposal and advises the Storting to consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1537	I thank the President for his goodwill. I know it's coming to the end of the big meeting, but this is such an important matter that I want to say a few words about it. As Stortinget will be familiar with, the EU Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development and Demonstration Activities are the largest EU programme in Norway in the context of the EEA Agreement. The Framework Programme for Research is the EU's most important instrument for financing research cooperation in Europe and is also the second-largest international research programme in its kind. Norway's participation in the Seventh Framework Programme represents a strong commitment to increased internationalisation and improved quality in Norwegian research. As the Storting is briefed on in the landfill proposal for the Seventh Framework Programme, the total Norwegian quota obligation for the entire seven-year period is approximately DKK 8.9 billion. The overall budget for the programme is approximately DKK 425 billion and represents a sharp increase from the Sixth Framework Programme. The increase in the budget shows that the EU places great emphasis on knowledge, research and innovation in order to achieve the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy relating to growth, employment, the environment and social cohesion. Norway and the EU are fully in line with the view on the importance of knowledge and knowledge development as a basis for future welfare. Norway has been a full participant in the framework programmes since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement in 1994, but also took part before that date. The first framework programmes helped to change cooperation patterns in Europe through networking at European level. Norwegian researchers, R & D institutions and companies have gained a great many new networks and partners through their participation. The Sixth Framework Programme took important steps in this work by focusing on actions that could contribute to the development of a European Research Area. The work includes, inter alia: better coordination of national R & D programmes in Europe and implementation of joint actions between them. Norway participates in the work because we see that it can strengthen our own R & D efforts. It is gratifying that Norway has had a very good record in the Sixth Framework Programme. Norwegian research institutions and enterprises have participated in about 850 projects, or about 50 projects. 10 pst. of all the projects of the Framework Programme. The acceptance rate for applications with Norwegian participation has been 28, compared with 18 pst. average of the programme as a whole. Norway has had very good participation in marine and maritime research, environment, transport and energy. We will build on this in the Seventh Framework Programme. Since the Seventh Framework Programme has a much larger budget and scope than in the past, achieving equal pay in the future will be a challenge. However, I also see great opportunities in the Seventh Framework Programme. The research policy priorities of the Framework Programme are very similar to our own. We can therefore view the Seventh Framework Programme as an arena that can help to strengthen our own commitment. We would like, among other things: be able to cooperate on renewable energy sources, CO2 capture and storage and climate research. We will also be able to make good use of the programme through increased information and guidance, specific instruments to stimulate participation and good interaction between our own national R & D efforts and the efforts of the Seventh Framework Programme. Let me also mention in particular the new European Research Council («European Research Council»). The Research Council shall finance so-called frontier research and enhance the quality, dynamics and creativity of European fundamental research. Basic research is a clear research policy priority in Norway, and we have many strong environments that could compete for the funds from the new Research Council, for example. researchers and environments related to our centres of excellence in research. Since the time is short, I'm just going to finish by saying that I'm very pleased that the Sixth Framework Programme gave such a good record to our institutions and researchers. We are now in front of the Seventh Framework Programme, with a significant increase in scope, to which I have great expectations. I'm going to discuss this with my research colleague, Potocnik, who I'm going with to Svalbard in a short time, just to underline the strong Norwegian commitment to research, and the strong commitment to cooperation with European institutions in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-16.ana.ud2140e1561	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox The scheduled time for the morning meeting is now at hand. [[Footing, see page 2558]] The evening meeting will be held at 2.30 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
