ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e101	The representative of Ola T. Loan, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: by Mr Dagfinn Højbrätten, on leave to attend a conference in St. Petersburg on 31 May and 1 June from the Left on sick leave for the representative André N. Skkelstad from 31 May onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Party on welfare leave for the representative Robert Eriksson from 31 May onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid SvendsenFor Nord-Trøndelag County: Change Skjervø and Anita Østby
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e145	Kjell Arvid Svendsen, Ender Skjervø and Anita Østby are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Harald T. Nesvik, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e150	On behalf of Siv Jensen, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Vigdis Giltun, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and myself, I would like to propose a requirement for proof of good conduct for people working in the care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e155	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e161	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16:00, until the current map has been processed. Furthermore, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after the No. 1 to 5 on the current map has been completed and then total voting on case No. 6 to 13 at the end of the day’s meeting. – This is deemed to be adopted. At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that case No. Case No. 1 and Case No. 2 is treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e194	The most quoted expression from this pulpit is Johan Sverdrup's «all power in this hall». However, our democratic system rests on a principle of the sharing of power – between the legislative, the executive and the judiciary. It's a division of powers that's important for several reasons, including the principle, that's about ensuring a clear distribution, not only of power, but also of responsibility. It is 46 years since the country’s last one-party government lost its majority in elections – a majority that had been through four parliamentary periods. Since 1961, we have only had two periods of majority government before today's government – the Borten government from 1965 to 1971 and the Willoch II government from spring 1983 to the 1985 elections. So in 32 of the last 36 years, we've had minority governments. Equally important: Four of the last six majorization periods have ended with a different government than the one formed after the election. This is a development that testifies that it is becoming more and more demanding to form stable governments that, on the basis of the election results, can launch a policy that has been supported in elections. This is the background to the proposal to introduce a requirement for positive parliamentary support in the form of government, so-called investment, combined with a conditional right of dissolution. The draft Constitutional Law is supported by a majority of the Committee, but unfortunately not enough support for its adoption later today. A demand that a majority actively support a new government is, of course, no easy solution in a situation where the composition of the Storting makes a government formation politically demanding. But it will provide the basis for a stronger commitment between a new government and a majority in the Grand Duchy, whether the result is a majority government, which today, or a minority government with a party in the Grand Duchy that supports the political platform for the formation of governments, as it was in the previous period. The right, which opposes the proposal, points to the fact that the introduction of investment will significantly weaken parliamentary freedom of action. It is an assessment that reflects the view that flexible manoeuvring options are more important than laying the groundwork for a more stable policy course throughout the electoral period. That's the last thing that's meant to get a clear and more committed majority behind a government. The Christian People's Party and the members of the Center Party say in their remark something of the same thing as the Right: ‘This also reduces the government’s flexibility in obtaining support for government policies from different parties.’ But this reasoning fails when it is claimed that it is government policy that they can be supported by different parties. The experience of the Bondevik I government is that it was not the government's policy they received support for. So flexibility is about being able to choose in which direction the government has to adjust its policy. It is true that this provides room for a political slump drive that provides greater survival for a minority government, but a basis for long-term and stable political governance does not provide this. The introduction of investment must necessarily be linked to the possibility of printing new choices if it appears that it is not possible to secure a majority for a new government. It is argued against the right of dissolution that it can be abused by the government in periods of favourable opinion. Now it is not such a resolution that is being discussed. If the Constitutional Amendment were to be adopted, it would not be possible for the government to print new elections, without it being in connection with a defeat or in connection with a motion of censure here in the Chamber, or that there is a situation where, after four attempts, it is not possible to obtain a majority in favour of the formation of a new government. In addition, during its study trip to Copenhagen, the Committee gained insight into European research in this field, which showed that the normal way in which a government prints new elections is for the government to lose some impetus. Let me also briefly comment on the draft Constitution that is in the innermost. S. No 192, right of dissolution. It is a proposal that differs in its device only from the dissolution part of the proposal to introduce investment and dissolution by selecting the Storting after a new election for a new four-year period. The dissolution part of the second proposal limits the period of a re-election to the remainder of the current ageing period. The Labour Party, like the Advance Party, believes that investment and dissolution are interrelated. Once a majority has supported the formation of a government, it is a reasonable strengthening of the government's position towards the Storting that it is equipped with a new means of power, namely the possibility of printing new elections if it suffers defeat in the Storing and its political basis is gone. Finally, let me comment on some of the other comments in the setting. SV, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party argue that the requirement for the national assembly to give the country a government is increasing when it is not allowed to print new elections. The situation today is that the only requirement for the Grand Government to form a government is that a majority do not actively say no to the new government. To sit still and let one or more parties form a minority government has no consequences, because after that government is formed, those who did not say no are completely free from government. For the past 30 years, we have had two governments with a very narrow parliamentary base: the Corvald government from 1972 to 1973, with 43 of 155 representatives of the Stortinge government behind them, and the Bondevik I government, with only a quarter of the representatives as the basis. So writes Christian People's Party, SV and the Center Party that ‘The absence of a right of dissolution may therefore enhance cooperation and discriminate against all batches, irrespective of whether they are in position or in opposition’. It shall be interesting to hear in the debate the empirical basis on which this analysis is based. The experience of the Workers' Party in minority government beyond the 1990s was quite the opposite. The fact that today's regime gives so much room for what the Right describes as flexibility means that any opposition party can avoid responsibility by pushing it on others. The effect is less discipline, if you think with discipline about the position that serves the case, or what reasons are further ahead than the next choice – not to say the next gallup measurement. The time limit for political response is growing. The main point can often be to defeat the government. I have a great deal of understanding that in the Christian People's Party there is a considerable pride in the fact that the party has been in the leadership of three governments for the last 35 years, taking into account the size of the party. But it's still to take a little hard in when the party in a special note goes very far in raising minority governments to the form of government that it really does best. There are probably few governments – if any – in modern times that have found themselves in as many defeats in the Stortinget as the central government. Despite the high number of minority governments having done well with Norway, the explanation is not in this form of government. First of all, there are few governments that have been confronted with difficult situations for a while, because our economic foundation has become so good, then Norway is an egalitarian society, with little differences – including between the political parties. But it is not in good times, it is in demanding times that minority parliamentaryism is put to the test. The last time it happened was the winter of 1986. Then came the demand for financial restraints. And then the then minority government went down. The desire to hold fast to the opportunities of minority governments to exchange partners is, in the Christian People's Party's Special Commentary, elevated to a democratic good, because it gives the Storting greater influence. In fact, such reasoning is rooted in the basic principle of the division of labour and responsibilities between government and grossing up. This principle of sharing responsibilities rests on the recognition that the Storting, which is well suited for much, is not suitable as an executive political body. A trend towards more and more detailed management from the Storting will gradually reduce government to a multiplicity dispatch office, on a case-by-case basis. If we look at developments in the use of request decisions, it will increase sharply in the last few periods. In the 2002–2003 session there were a total of 242 request decisions. It is an expression of a weakening of government as the initiator and a premiss for political governance. In the sum of these request decisions there is no clear policy line. They point in many different directions and would, if they had been followed up and put into life, probably have led to unintended effects and posed a threat to the economy. In addition, such developments would help to ensure that the responsibility for the policies put into effect would be unclear and emanating. This would, as pointed out by the Powers Investigation in its position, lead to voters losing interest in politics. It would be difficult to see the relationship between the election result – that is, the voter’s voter’s vote – and the policy pursued. Those who want to elevate the more flexible opportunities of minority government for democratic power are also missing out on some experience with the Plaza settlements, etc. in late night hours to get the state budget in place. Not all of the elements of the comparisons have been beneficial to the Norwegian economy. That a center party sees its own influence served by these flexible possibilities, you can understand. However, in order to assess the basis for a stable economic policy based on the mandate given by the voters in elections, the perspective must necessarily be different. It is this perspective that should underlie all parties in this matter. Norway is the only country in Europe with no possibility of disbanding Parliament and printing new elections during a parliamentary term. The average lifetime of a Norwegian government between 1945 and 1996 is slightly over two years. So they've only been half of the electoral term. It is a pity that we are not using this opportunity to lay the groundwork for future governments to be formed through positive parliamentaryism and thus on a clear basis in the Stortinget. It would contribute to greater stability and a better clarification of who is responsible for what over a major period of time. It should be an advantage for both position and opposition, and it would undoubtedly be an advantage for the voters, who will assess the results at the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e262	I think the case rapporteur went through the formal and described the proposed system changes in a very good way. I can also join in part of his other assessments. I have had many views about government formations up through my time. I have come across criticisms that I think it has been entirely right that a government has been in a way a despatch office, as the rapporteur called it, for various decisions by a different majority behind in the Stortinget. That's not right. I have said many times – and I insist – that if we have weak minority governments for too long, it will be unfortunate. It will reduce the long-termity and predictability and significance of what a government in the public debate had to say. At the same time, it is my view that if we also have a majority government for a long time, it may in fact mean that it is not the government that is the dispatching office of the Stortinget, but that it can be reversed – that the Stortinget can become a dispatching office for a government that, after a while, may tend to become arrogant and have its internal discussions exclusively with its own large-scale groups, while the Stortinget as an institution actually becomes less important. I think that too would be unfortunate. Therefore, having minority governments and majority governments alternated could be a reasonable balance sheet. At least it's been my starting point for a long, long time – and then you get to think about what you want. We've had weak minority governments. But of course, we have had the opportunity to ask cabinet questions in different matters, if you have been aware and know that there were no real government options. But this has not really been the case in Norway. When you've had weak minority governments of bourgeois, non-socialist, parties, you've kind of realized that if it were necessary, the Workers' Party would probably be willing to take government power. The Labour Party has always had a relatively strong desire to be in government and to have government power, so there have always been alternatives. I've been against the right of dissolution in the past, and we've dealt with it several times, because it's only been in the right of dissolution. Of course, there has been a degree of stable government here because you don't have it, which in a way forces the parties in the Storting to find solutions and find compromises that can stand over time. Absence has also in a way been discriminating on the Stortinget. When the Progress Party will now vote in favour of the introduction of the right of dissolution, it is partly due to the fact that, as the rapporteur said, it is combined with investment, positive parliamentaryism, a much clearer basis of government formation than it has so far been. We have – let's say – been involved in some government formations from the sideline as a result of the fact that the Progress Party has made good choices. In 1997, the Bondevik I government was formed, not because the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left made such a wonderfully brilliant choice, but partly because the Advance Party made a very good choice and became the second largest party and took sufficient votes from the Workers' Party so that it became a majority of non-socialist parties. However, the first central government had no parliamentary basis whatsoever, other than the three parties, and elevated the wing and freedom of choice of the government to an ideology, which still exists in the Christian People's Party and the Left, i.e., the freedom of a government to rely in individual cases on parties on its left side or on parties on its right side. It can really be difficult to have a consistent, long-term and stable policy line in such a situation. The same thing happened in 2001. Then the Bondevik II government was formed, again because the Progress Party had made a good choice, but one did not want to have any negotiations with the Progress Party. It was not really necessary to get a positive support from us in any voting in Stortinget. It was enough that we publicly stated that in the choice between a Bondevik II government and a Stoltenberg government we preferred the first. Then Jens Stoltenberg submitted his rejection application. I think it would have made sense – just as we do not have the right to dissolve, the parties of Storting are forced to talk together, negotiate and try to find solutions in difficult situations – that even after elections you have an instrument that forces those parties that want to try to get a basis for a government to negotiate. Positive parliamentaryism will force it forward. Then those who are going to form the government after a election, and after a government has left, would be dependent on receiving positive support in a vote in Stortinget. What is amazing is that not the Christian People's Party and the Left are really for investment – and also the Center Party, which has had a characteristic that they want enormous power. Even when they're unlikely to be small, they've wanted considerable power. And Lars Sponheim got in his birthday party the other day a reward for having done the art with two members of the National Assembly to get three government councils. It is that investment, which is based on having to have them and those parties to get majority voting in order to gain government power, will give smaller parties considerable power. I am aware that both the Left Party, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party look at it differently, because they know very well that this would also mean that the Progress Party had gained power in 1997 and 2001. Then it would have been forced through negotiations, because it would not have been government formation without a positive vote in the hall. Then someone might claim that yes, but there was a positive vote in the hall in 2001. But it was only because I made proposals to trust the government and to approve the government's statement. It was with very little pleasure the three government parties voted in favour of that proposal, because they would not really admit that they would form a government because of the Advance Party, they would pretend to be doing it on their own. I believe that, as a system, it would make sense to have a much clearer parliamentary basis for a government. To look again at history, some claim that the 2001 vote did not prevent the Progress Party from becoming a relatively strong opposition party, which made many representations, even with economic consequences in retrospect. That's right, but if we had investment and negotiations, the responsibility for the party that might not have been in government was enormously much greater than what it was, when the government's declared ideology was to rule based on alternate support from the SV, the Workers' Party or the Progress Party. Had it been positive parliamentaryism, there would also have been another political platform for the Bondevik II government, and it would have been a much greater degree of stability. Looking ahead, of course, it may be an advantage for the Progress Party that it is not an investment when we arrive in 2009. But we have chosen not to focus on it, and not to think tactics, but to think system and ensure a reasonable degree of stability. When we are in favour of investment, positive parliamentaryism, we have also accepted the right of dissolution when a government is defeated by a mistrust proposal or a cabinet issue and makes it clear that it will produce new elections. Then there have been objections from strong adherents to the right of dissolution, that exactly this right of dissolution will only apply to the remaining part of the period, instead of starting a new four-year period, as it is in very many countries, especially in Denmark and England, where they have a maximum limit for a government and a term of office of five years, and where the Prime Minister alone can decide when he wants to print new elections for a new five-year period from the election date approximately. There's an objection that has a lot to it. But that is the proposal that the Storting should take a decision on, and then one must weigh the benefits and disadvantages against one another. We have come to realize that now we have the opportunity to obtain the right of dissolution and investment as a system change. If it was later to show that it would be more sensible to start a new period, you may change it – when it had to appear – after a thorough assessment and treatment. I think it's a little strange that the Right, who has so long been invoking the right of dissolution and now has the opportunity to get it to, however, vote no, based on the setting, because it's not a completely correct resolution right that is proposed. One would have thought it would have been better to get the right of dissolution into the Constitution, and then later evaluate and look at the experience if it was used, and possibly correct. It would probably have been easier to get to. When the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have made it clear that we want to combine and have both investment – positive parliamentaryism – and the right to dissolve, it surprises me that the Right has set itself to the degrees on the hind legs because they do not get it exactly the way they want it. It amazes me a lot, because this has been a «permanent» Right-wing proposal on the right of dissolution. In Case No. Well, 2 suggests to the right. It shall be interesting to hear the Right Representative explain why, nevertheless, it becomes the Party that prevents the exercise of the right of dissolution when they now have the opportunity to have the right of dissolution for which they have fought for so long. During this period, we have made important changes to our governance system, by abolishing the division of stockpiling and lay-down from the next parliamentary term, by introducing a completely new system of national law that becomes real and useful for putting state councils, Supreme Court judges and depositors to charge for gross errors and crimes they commit by virtue of their duties, we have introduced parliamentaryism into the Constitution, and we have introduced the disclosure obligation of the government. I think, in line with this, that it would have been quite unique if we could also have had the right of dissolution and positive parliamentaryism in place. Then this ageing period would really have emerged in our history as a period of making significant and sensible changes in our constitutional governance system. I would appeal to representatives from both the Left, the Centre and the Right who believe that we should now take the opportunity to bring about the right of dissolution and positive parliamentaryism. I'm not in doubt that in any of those parties you might think more carefully about this when they saw what means of power they would get even if they were never so small. That's really what might talk a little bit against it, but to ensure the most stable basis and the majority behind a government formation should be sensible to create long-term and predictability for the outside world, i.e. for businesses and residents in the country, who want stability and predictability when they're going to make different arrangements. I therefore appeal to the representatives of the Right, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left to consider whether they should not really contribute to this period in the national parliament of the country being a period during which significant improvements were made in our constitution and in our constitutional governance system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e298	Few constitutional cases have been dealt with as frequently in this Chamber as the very question of introducing some form of parliamentary right of dissolution. As has been pointed out both in the settings and from the pulpit in the highly subjective historical manuscripts that have been presented here, this has been an ever-increasing case in Stortinget. History has been carefully explained in several rounds, and I am not going to contribute unnecessarily to this now, but will justify the constitutional proposals we are supporting, and those we are moving towards, which are, of course, the issue. It is often pointed out that Norway is one of the very few parliamentary democracies where there is no right of dissolution. This may show that we are an exceptional country in an international context, but there is no decisive element in itself for me, provided that the system you already have works well. Unfortunately, our parliamentary system does not always do so. Over a period of time, we have seen clear trends in a form of big business and detailed management at a level that neither speaks for the benefit of the government nor the Stortinge, or that is necessarily at the best of the country. In principle, the right of dissolution could also play an important role as a security mechanism in difficult and stuck parliamentary situations. For the Right, therefore, the central point of introducing the right of dissolution is that it is in this way possible to restore some of the balance of power that was originally the basis of the Norwegian state. A clear division between legislative and executive powers was central to the Constitutional Decision of 1814, but unfortunately historical developments have contributed to the unfortunate obliteration of the original clear lines of responsibility of the Norwegian Constitution. Such a balance is also in line with the fundamentals of parliamentaryism, as opposed to a situation in which a minority government is still under pressure for political decisions that it cannot stand up to. It is important that a government can have authority and position to resist short-term pressure and maintain a long-term policy. It is also important to avoid inappropriate detailed management of the government from Stortinget. That's why we're of the opinion that the government's most powerful means of power today, the cabinet question, should be complemented by a right to dissolve the Storting and print out new choices. However, such strengthening of the position of the government must not unduly shift the balance of power. I would like to stress that the proposal by the Right-wing Representatives, which is contained in Document No. 12:10, contain such strong restrictions that it cannot reasonably be claimed that the adoption of the draft constitution would result in such a displacement. This has been ensured by limiting access to resolution of the Storing to situations where the Government has failed in the Storing during voting on a motion of censure or cabinet issue and that the outcome of voting has been notified in advance that it is possible to determine whether it will be re-elected. As can be seen in the vote, there is so much agreement on the challenges of today’s Norwegian system and that a limited right of dissolution could help solve them. Thus, as the setting of these two cases now exists, unlike in the past, a majority of the Constitutional Laws have been established for the principle of the right of dissolution. Nevertheless, the institution will not be established this time. The majority of the Committee, the representatives of the Labour Party and the Progress Party will not consider the introduction of the right of dissolution as set out in the proposal in Document No. 12:10, regardless of the introduction of investment, or so-called positive parliamentaryism. That is why a majority who want some form of dissolution, a majority of the constitutions, nevertheless do not go through in this room – probably – at voting time. This combination will be enough of an innovation in the Norwegian state. Today, the Storting does not vote for the Declaration of Accession of a Government or for a given membership of the Government Parties. In the opinion of the Right, this should remain the case. Our proposal is to restore the balance between state powers through a limited right of dissolution, not to weaken parliamentary freedom and flexibility with a system of investment, to which it can open up. I am also of the opinion that some historical examples can be drawn up – and the case's rapporteur drew up examples from 1986 – that a roll-out decision does not necessarily ensure stability when policy meets strong counter-powers, for example. in times of economic hardship, where restrictive decisions are needed. And to be quite concrete: I'm not sure that the Progress Party would behave differently to the Willoch government in 1986, if there was a deployment decision one year back in time. Or, in another way, investment cannot prevent populism. The Labour Party and the Advance Party argue in their comments at the Innst. S. No 191 in order for ‘a visible and defined parliamentary basis for the government’ to be a prerequisite for the government to be granted the right to dissolve the Grand Duchy. Here, in my opinion, the above-mentioned batches make a significant logical conclusion, disregarding the right of dissolution per unit. definition will be used only if there is an acute conflict between the majority of the Grand Duchy and the Government, regardless of whether the government had formally and formally expressed support from a majority in the Grand Duchy upon accession. It should be possible, not to say naturally, to evaluate these two institutions independently of each other. In its argumentation in the setting of Document No. 12:2 at the same time, they confuse political power and governance with a formal declaration of support by the accession of a government. Governments from most Norwegian parties have been able to exercise both power of action and governance, despite the fact that formal pre-explained support in the Stortinget has not necessarily been available. In fact, in recent decades, a clear majority of the governments in office have lacked a clear majority in the Storting, and in such situations it will primarily be the political craftsmanship and the party's governance that is crucial. The representative Svein Roald Hansen also stated that this small country, with its state-style, has been doing quite well – many would say very well – under changing governments for very many years. I think he's right about that, and he pointed to a couple of things that underpin it. I think perhaps the most important thing is that the parties, at least those who have existed for a while, have sometimes also been willing to make political compromises, and stand by these compromises, these consensus solutions, under changing governments and through changing number of economies. It has given long-termity to some questions. In the past, security and defence policy was at least an area for this. The management of the country's oil dependence, the establishment of a petroleum fund, later a pension fund, and the economic management of oil revenues are a fresher example of the fact that, under changing governments, it has been possible to establish a framework that has been respected by most. I believe that such consensus solutions over time are one of the most important things to ensure the long-termity of policies in a country. The political function of the sitting government, in order to return to it, also reminds us daily that there is not necessarily any given connection between having a majority in the Storing behind it and exhibiting governance and political power. Finally, a few words about the election periods, where there is also a difference between the two current proposals. It is true that Norwegian choices have so far been based on fixed periods, and local and wholesale choices have been held every two years. If the proposal of the Right-wing Representatives is implemented, it will change this electoral tradition by shifting the timing of ordinary voting. Nevertheless, this would be preferable to the potentially very short accumulation periods that would be the consequence if the time for normal roll-outs were to be fixed in any case, as would be the case with the proposal of the Workers' Party and the Progress Party. That there should be a great risk of a weakening of the interest in local elections, given the electoral system proposed in Document No. 12:10 Add up, I have very difficult to see. There is every reason to believe that a new disintegration institute will be used with great caution and that the choice and wear of the individual will therefore hardly increase significantly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e327	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e330	The representative Foss chose to go back to 1986 and make some views on it. Then I can't dare to ask: doesn't Per-Christian Foss think that if it had been positive parliamentaryism at the time, and the government Willoch had been dependent on a positive decision in the Storting, would it matter to the government's internal situation? In the treaty debate, Jan P. Syse received a note from Kjell Magne Bondevik, read to Prime Minister Kåre Willoch, saying that if something was said more nicely about the Progress Party, the Right had to choose between the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. After all, a positive vote would have clarified what was the government's parliamentary basis. I would like to hear the views of the representative Foss on that. Otherwise, I fully agree with what he said about populism. It was a fantastic populism The Workers' Party did when they threw the government by voting against something they were in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e339	At that time, I think populism was widespread in several parties. I don't think the Progress Party would have behaved differently in 1986 – but of course it's a speculation, a hypothesis, based on some historical experience over some years – in relation to an unpopular, but necessary tightening decision that the government Willoch presented because of economic times that were different from today. In retrospect, we must be able to say that the forecasts of economic development and the need for mitigation measures are fully documented. It was actually a modest beginning the government Willoch presented and did not receive the support of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e344	What Per-Kristian Foss says is completely wrong. If he reads in the ‘Minister of State’ of Kåre Willoch, he sees that Willoch did not at any time have expected support from the Progress Party to increase the fuel tax. However, he had expected support from the Workers' Party, and the Workers' Party implemented that decision a few weeks after the government change. My point, however, was after the elections, where there was a big discussion about it at all, to conduct a conversation with me as the parliamentary leader of the Progress Party. It was completely denied by the Center Party and the Christian People's Party. It was in the situation immediately after the elections that positive parliamentaryism would have forced a clarification of what was to be the government's parliamentary basis, as the centre party Jacobsen and the Christian People's Party Bondevik always refused that the Progress Party was. They would have to find out what was the parliamentary basis for the government. That's what was my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e351	It is likely to come back to the following: the Wild Advance Party acted differently in 1986 after taking part in an inaugural decision in 1985. There I agree with Willoch, that no, there was no reason to expect. I believe that the representative Hagen is quite right that the representative Willoch, then Prime Minister Willoch, had other expectations of the responsibility and economic policy of the Labour Party than of the Progress Party – to say it in a careful and diplomatic way – in relation to his memoirs. I think he's right in many ways, also historically. So I don't think an investment like this would give you another political act from that party, Mr. President. Hagen that time led.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e356	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e360	It's interesting to hear old ring foxes discussing the past. We now have a taste of the biography of Hagen, which comes to the autumn. These are the first leaks from any of the things that will be in that book, I think. Maybe we'll hear more during the debate. But that's not what we're going to discuss right now, it's the Constitutional proposal in relation to the right of dissolution and investment. What we have to ask ourselves is, do we need a change in this area? Is it that Norway is not functioning well in relation to the way democracy is exercised? My and SV’s answers to this are: No, Norway works in an excellent way. There are few countries in the world that have such a living and functioning democracy as Norway. Then you have to ask yourself what is the purpose of making changes, and look at countries that actually have less functioning democracy. We know that Sweden has a right of dissolution – to go to the nearest country. They've barely used it. I think they've used it four times in 150 years, or something like that. So it almost hasn't been used. And for the last 20-30 years, they haven't used it at all. It shows in a way that you have an opportunity, but it's not applicable. There is no need to use it. I also think we have to realize that the right of dissolution can easily be used in tactical terms. If we go to Denmark, there is no doubt that there are not only, but also, tactical assessments on the basis of which the Prime Minister prints new elections. What are the economic cycles ahead to make a good choice? It will be one of the important things that the Prime Minister in Denmark will look at when he assesses whether to print new choices or not. I don't think we need to introduce that kind of tactics into Norwegian society. I think the way we control is much better. Then I'd like to take a little round of the case rapporteur, Svein Roald Hansen, in relation to that with the dispatch office, which he took up in his post. And that's pretty interesting: who's the dispatch office for who? We in SV want to have the most power in this room, which Johan Sverdrup once again signaled very clearly. I have to say that, as far as the dispatch office is concerned today, probably the staging is much more of a dispatch office for the government and the government than the other way around. If we're going to have a living democracy, it's probably the goal that one has to move more of the power, more of the debates, more of the decisions to this room instead of everything happening in the government offices in Akersgata and around the office. That's the big challenge we have in our democracy, because if we look at national parliaments in other countries, there are many places where they're just opinionists. They decide a little, but they mean a lot. I do not want the Norwegian potion to be a body of opinion. It must be a decision-making body. That's why I think the debate that Svein Roald Hansen is coming up, that you're worried that the government is going to be an expedition office for the Storting, is going to turn things upside down. The representative Hansen should be concerned about how we're going to gain more power into the Storting, so that the Storting doesn't function as a government dispatch office.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e373	The issue of the introduction of the right of dissolution in the Norwegian Constitution does not belong to the hottest issues on the political agenda. Nor does the question seem to have developed a sufficiently broad commitment to the fact that it has been possible to bring together members of the national Parliament on a proposal, although there is a significant majority to introduce such a right of dissolution in Norway. The reason might well be that the matter does not seem important enough, or important enough to try to get together on a proposal that could have a majority. Nevertheless, since Norway is obviously the only country among parliamentarian-led states that does not have any kind of right of dissolution, we have to ask whether this is really a serious defect in our constitution. When everyone else has it: why do we not have it, despite the fact that Norwegian democracy in other contexts is being highlighted as the best in the world? I just heard the representative Inge Ryan also said that, and not least this is an impression we are left with after not having heard so few 17 May speeches over the years. Maybe that's why, when it comes to everything, about a little beauty spot that our founding fathers on the move didn't get to straighten out? It shall not be excluded that the Christian People's Party will once in the future enter in order to introduce the right of dissolution into some form of the Norwegian Constitution. We see that there are arguments for having such a security mechanism available in appropriate cases. However, when the party does not find that it would support any of the proposals now, it is mainly because we have not seen the great need for such a scheme. Norway has a fairly stable, well-functioning parliamentary democracy, and there have been no major problems in forming governance. The Norwegian parliamentary system has had time to sit down. It's important to underline it. Introducing a new element into a system that works well is not unproblematic. This is particularly true in the absence of a fully-fledged constitutional proposal that could bring together all, or most, representatives. Disintegration still appears to be a foreign element of the Norwegian parliamentary system, and that is something unorthodox. Then you can't avoid noticing that both of the two basic legislative proposals in the main rationale are motivated by a desire to ensure that minority governments with weak power of action, and also against a staggering tendency to big business, as has been said here today. This is quite clear at the beginning of the proposals, that there are minority governments with a weakened power of action that you want to guard against. Proposals for the introduction of the right of dissolution, in one proposal also linked to the introduction of so-called investment, or the adoption of a decision, could assure us against this. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is a weakness in the proposals for the right of dissolution that they are above all not justified in principle, and that they do not emerge as a result of a more comprehensive principled constitutional review, but that they come more or less as a result of what one experiences as an unfortunate development with minority governments with weakened power of action. Now there may be different opinions on how minority governments have worked in Norway in recent decades. For the Christian People's Party, however, it is clear that experience over the past 35 years clearly shows that a country can be ruled steadily, and that major and important decisions can be made, including with minority governments. Norway is at the top of wealth development and one of the world’s best countries to live in. It does not seem that a tradition of minority governments has acted as a brake block on this development. Then it is right, as the proposers point out, that Norway has the tradition that many and active parties make lists in elections to the Stortinget. That we have a diverse party spectrum, with many vital party movements, must be seen exclusively as a major asset for the country. This, of course, makes it more demanding to establish majority governments, or coalitions, to which the proposers point. But from there to draw the conclusion that the right of dissolution would be a means of making it easier to form majority governments, appears more like a short-circuit. I guess you don't necessarily get fewer parts by printing new ones. What you can achieve is a change of strength between them. From one page set, printing new selections is an expression of a kind of resignation. In a situation where elected representatives are unable to reach an adequate consensus, they also choose to send the ball back to the voters and ask them to sort it out instead. But that means in height that you give yourself a new chance. There is no guarantee that it will be easier after a re-election. You can also risk messing it up even worse. Maybe it's better then to let the Storting keep the pressure on themselves to find a solution and do what you do when choosing a new pope: literally lock the cardinals in until they've decided! A proposal to introduce investment could be considered to have a discriminatory effect. Now there is no proposal for just investment, so there is no topic to go on in the debate. I think I too would have added that such a proposal has other and more unfortunate consequences that it would be natural to go into more detail if there had been a proposal on it. A long tradition of minority governments can, of course, easily lead to one finally thinking that that's the way it should be. The representative Svein Roald Hansen had a visit to the Christian People's Party in this connection. I don't think one should be tempted to impersonate minority governments – let me now say so. We realize absolutely that a majority government can have advantages, among other things. by clarifying the division of responsibilities between maggots and governments and by getting more predictable conditions by avoiding uncertainties as to whether or not a government proposal is adopted. On the other hand, there are also specific demands on how a majority government should deal with the Storting and ensure that the power and influence of the Storing are not weakened. It is understandable – let me also say – that when a majority government, based on several parties, has been through intense internal processes in order to arrive at compromise solutions, it may be at risk of becoming immune to making even smaller adjustments when matters reach the Stortinget. It is unfortunate if this means that wider policy solutions are also prevented in cases where it would have been beneficial for the country to have several parties stand behind a decision. The proceedings and the debate are moved from a more open dialogue between the Stortinget and the Government to more closed processes in the government quarter. It is also unfortunate if this means that organisations, institutions and individuals who may be invited to a hearing on a case do not feel that they have any intention of making their views known, because the case has already been decided before it has been submitted. This leads to a lack of transparency and a reduction in knowledge of matters, resulting in a more closed decision-making system as a result. From time to time, such decision-making systems may also leave an experience of arrogance, even if not intended. All in all, we are on the verge of recognising that no system is perfect, and that there may be advantages and disadvantages associated with different alternatives, but that it is ultimately about being open, listening and, above all, seeking solutions that can appear to be as robust as possible. This applies in general and above all in matters related to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e415	The Norwegian Constitution is probably the second oldest in the world — according to the US — which is still in use, in operation. The United States' constitution has been changed only 27 times in over 200 years. These 27 changes, or additions, include the ten Bill of Rights from 1791. The Norwegian constitution, on the other hand, has been more fluid; more often amended and more developed, both linguistically and in terms of content. On average, there has been a constitutional change since 1814. In this way, our constitutional tradition may be more similar to that of the Swedish than to the North American: in Sweden, there have been more than 200 constitutional changes. My point is that the Stortinget has had a pragmatic relationship with the institution at times – this is not least true during this ageing period. In a short time, we have reformed the Riksrecht, abolished the Odelstinget and Lagtinget, and then written down the negative parliamentaryism which he has developed into a practice in the post-Court of Law against the Ministry of Selmer in 1884. Just this seine introduction of parliamentaryism into the Constitution may well remind you of Ivar Aasen's words: ‘We shall come, about nothing so fried.’ The essence of these changes, however, is that they have been reasonable, they have been well distributed, and, after all, they have been uncontroversial. So today's question is, is the time for further changes? Should we introduce positive parliamentaryism – investment and resolution? The center party doesn't mean it. So we're going to stir up the input that goes into either both of these or just the resolution. I'll do it right away. But first a few words about what I want to call method. The Constitution deals in depth with the rules governing the rule of people: harsh values, civil rights, minority protection, distribution and balancing of power. Whenever you want to change the game rules, I think it's an ideal choice to ignore your own short-term interests. The method of evaluating proposals must be to think, talk and conclude as if one is behind a blur of ignorance: we don't know what will be best for us in 20, 30 or 40 years. We should therefore act on the basis of what, to the best of our ability, we perceive or powers to regard as common interests; what seems to be the best interests of the people's rule. In that I believe is the design of a constitution that ensures that democracy is both for the benefit of the people most and stable and legitimately. However, such assessments are difficult, not least because there is neither night black nor empty behind such a veil. However, current flashes, near history and more or less strategic assessments still give echoes that influence choices and opinions about the future. Let me make a concrete point: we are in disagreement with the assessment of whether today's form of parliamentaryism is or is the cause of serious problems of governance. So we don't see the solutions -- investment and resolution -- that are presented as solutions, even if they're "mild" and hardly would have represented dramatic changes to the game sliders if they had been agreed. The absence of resolution means that the Norwegian system formally differs from that in other European countries with which we are often complacency. But the important thing is this: Hi, we're catching the table. The lack of ability to print new choices forces cooperation, pragmatic will and ability to come up with solutions and negotiate compromises – in the Storting and in the interplay between government and national parliament. We mean this works, and it's hard to see that it's not going to work. Likewise, when we talk about the creation of powerful governments, road customs and culture heavily in our system, and give few, if any, evidence that governments are difficult to establish, at the same time as they in the rule are relatively manageable – at least they have been in post-war times. To be able to look forward, it is difficult not to try to learn from the past and the present. There'll typically be shared opinions about what we can learn from what's happened. We believe that modern Norwegian parliamentaryism works satisfactorily and produces political solutions and cooperative constellations that are both stable and legitimate over time. Let's see that this changes, so that it turns out that the players' eyeballs don't hold goals – then they might need to be changed, but not necessarily in line with the suggestions that are currently being made. But as I said, the Center Party thinks we're not there today, and it's not easy to see that we're going to be there tomorrow. For this reason, what we have today is a pragmatically up-to-date constitution that works satisfactorily and that helps to make the People's Government appear to be both welfare-promoting, stable and legitimate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e438	The representative Per-Kristian Foss gets the word out of the way to make suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e441	I will address the proposal from the Right in case No. 2 on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e446	The representative Per-Kristian Foss has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e449	It is, of course, a premise for the proposal we are going to consider in case No. 1, that majority governments per definition is the best for the relationship between legislative and executive power. Let me first say that for the left hand side it's not necessarily like this. This debate has shown that there is a wide-ranging debate on which governments are weakest or strongest, or which are the most effective, majority or minority governments. We're not going to be more than two years back in time, when we were at the beginning of an dawning election to a big shot that was largely about this: a majority government was the best thing for the country, it was about getting rid of a minority government. Many of the same arguments used in this debate were also used in the election campaign. There was something the voters could also largely take part in and listen to. I myself experienced many times that Jens Stoltenberg, the sitting Prime Minister, used words like: now it must end chaos, root and game in Norwegian politics, we need a new majority, we need action – all these fine honors. Now it's been two years, and everyone can come up with an opinion about whether it's ended chaos, mess and games, and whether it's got action and order in politics. I'll think there's different opinions about it. At best we can say that all these terms of the political debate and the tactical part of the political game, which this is really about, are not just negative. Once upon a time, disagreements, dragonfights, and perhaps games, actually belong to politics and democracy. But it is not without saying that it is more democratically questionable to conduct the open fights here in the country's parliament than it is to settle internally in the government, behind very closed doors. I know a lot about that. It's actually so that some of us might say that it might as well have been the opposite. What's the current situation? After almost two years, we know how a majority government works. We know that the formation of this government made it a slogan that this was a government that would act and not negotiate. I am of the opinion that the most important thing in a multi-party government is that the political tension within is no greater than that one can act, that one can come to conclusions quickly, that one knows each other's pain points, and that one will always be good to one another. It is absolutely essential to be able to show the power of action and, at my discretion, to have strong governments. I don't have enough knowledge about the inner life of the sitting majority government, so I'm not going to make too many claims, other than what I can observe from the outside through newspaper headlines, and the fact that we can actually record that you're coming to the Storting with pale and dredging faces and finished things – to say it a little carefully. That's a lot of it. There is, of course, a lack of action that we see today. As I understand it, the Presidency is now considering whether to extend the planned spring session because the Government simply has not been able to act. It's been weak. It has not been possible to come up with matters that allow the Storting, the parliament of the country, to have an open and democratic process on major and important matters for the country. I'm not calling that strength. I call it weakness. I don't call it action, because it's obvious that this has been negotiated and farted so long behind closed doors that in this house there will be very little room for the open and democratic processes. Having assessed some governments – both their own and the minority governments to which I have been opposed – I am absolutely convinced that with the parliamentary composition and political conditions of the Stortinget during this period, a minority government from the Workers' Party, probably led by the same Prime Minister, would have been more influenced by the Labour Party's policy and more decisive than the majority government we have today. Thus, it would have been a stronger government than what, at my discretion, is a weak government, in the sense that it does not have the power to act and spend time and energy on internal discussions. But that could be my opinion. In this context, I also want to address the representative Ryan's points, which I share, namely that calling a government for a dispatch office, is in a way to attack a minority government or a government that is opposed. I think it should be a lot of a bigger problem for this house and for this room when the Storting has the mark of being a dispatch office. After sitting here for many years, I want to say that in that direction I have never experienced the spouse of what I experience today. The government looks at the Storting as a dispatch office, where they, a few days before the Grand Storting's end of the spring session, just dumps in battles, knowing that it's going to be completely unimportant what processes the Storing has. I think that's a huge problem, which should have been addressed a lot more strongly by the spokesman for the largest party here in the Chamber and the case rapporteur, than turning it down. I fully agree with Mr Ryan's representative. I think it is important that, in each case after a choice, one must have the freedom to assess issues of minority, majority, power of action, not action, weak or strong government, not that it is determined by an inevitable norm with anchoring in the Constitution. The left has always been in conflict with the right of resolution. We believe it is the elected representatives who are going to take the consequences of the choice that citizens have made, not that citizens are going to do the job again because the elected representatives think it has been chosen wrong. Investiture is in the same way, in our opinion, a legal act of art, which does not have a reasonable purpose. If it were to work according to the intentions of the proposers, it would deprive the Stortinget of freedom of action, as it has been promoted here in the debate earlier. In some cases it would force artificial policy solutions for the sake of the formalities of the law, not the political realities. But that is probably also a bit of the point – a kind of discipline of small parties – on the part of the proposers. It would, in my opinion, promote block policy thinking, some parties might have a lot of interest in. I want to stop a little bit by what could be a consequence of this, namely a clearer two-part division of Norwegian policy. A lot of people dream about it. There's a lot of people who want a right-hand side to deal with, when they have a majority, and a left-hand side to deal with, when they have a majority. I think there's a lot of people dreaming about it, that in Norway we might be able to deal with two parties, which could alternately fight about the voters, and that it would be very good. You could at least have two clearly defined sides with two strong leading parties that held a little hope of parties around you, and that could take care of some special interests. It's a picture someone has. I want to use this opportunity to fight back against those who in this way make the center small. For me, it is an independent political point that the political centre shares important common values – we should call it citizenship – where individual people must be at the centre, power must be spread from below, both through market solutions and democratic solutions, and the view of economic freedom is widely shared. But the need to use the state and a strong community to take care of the weakest in society is a view that is also shared by the left, or very often the Workers' Party. It is in many ways a political centre in which at least I do not think I should make something weak or insignificant or something like that; it should be an independent political stand that finds majority solutions by being able to switch the majority in two directions. It's important to me. I had the pleasure of sitting in a central government where, in relation to this question by the then head of the centre party, Anne Enger Lahnstein, decisively focused on the block-independent centre. I think she was more concerned with the block-independent than what was signed, but a little bit of her point was that with a political centre it would be possible to settle budgets in both directions in the political landscape. That's what the Bondevik I government did, or the Center government did. But so did the Bondevik II government. So with Anne Enger Lahnstein's definition of a block-independent central government, the Bondevik II government was also a government that was able to settle budgets, i.e. the major political issues, in two directions. I'm not going to draw this much longer, but I just want to point out that the flexibility to find the good solutions has not only the center, but also the center along with the Right contributed to. That is why we do not want to force political solutions into a pre-determined pattern, to which I believe this is stated, for reasons of some political clarity – which the voters should then be able to understand more easily. I think there is a significant underestimation of the voters in this. For the Left, the solutions to the individual challenges are more important, and these can very often be found with different configurations on a case-by-case basis. As a result, an alternating majority can increase political power, playfulness, and better solutions. After an election, the formation of a government will either give itself or be the result of negotiations between parties in the Grand Duchy. It will not be possible to form a government that will not have to be accepted by a majority in the Grand Duchy. In practice, therefore, we have a negative parliamentaryism by the fact that one or more parties will give a clear signal to the formation of a given minority government. But they cannot, even with an investment decision, undertake to support the government in one and all, or prevent the government from seeking support from other parties in individual cases. If this is the intention, we're talking about a really serious and, at my discretion, unheard of interference in the matter of the Storting and political freedom of the parties. The question then remains: what will really be the practical significance of investment? So to the extent that it should have any practical significance at all, it could mean a new election that no one has any guarantee will give any better results in terms of a different basis for government formation. On the contrary, it is difficult to imagine that the absence of a constitutional investment should be a problem. Those who would have cooperated on such a decision would, of course, be able to do so on a voluntary basis — obviously. The left may join the joint comments of the SV, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party of the Committee. These parties stress that there have been no major problems in forming manageable governments in Norway. They point out that the demand for the Storting to provide the country with a government is increasing when it cannot be printed out new ones. And they point to the obvious danger that the right of dissolution will be easier to become a tactical instrument for winning elections than a mechanism for resolving a locked-up parliamentary situation. The left also shares their view of the shift of power from the Storting to the Government, which lies in the proposal. The left may also join in part of the Right's remark, pointing out that there is no necessarily link between the parliamentary basis of a government and the political power to safeguard its interests, and pointing out that an investment will significantly weaken parliamentary freedom of action. The left can also join the Christian People's Party's special comment on the matter, and we would like to stress in particular what it says that if the handling of matters – by majority governments and any fixed majority formations – is moved from open processes in the Storting and in public space to closed, internal negotiations, even minor changes become impossible. Consequently, the Left joins the minority in the Committee and will vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e487	I registered that the representative Sponheim was afraid that the center could be too small. To that, there's only one comment: as I see it, it's unwarranted fear, because the whole Workers' Party is in the center. But it's a cross of thought that in 1814 112 men spent only six hectic weeks agreeing on the Constitution we still have, while we spend decades in decades renewing the Constitution. It probably has a connection that the Constitution is meant to fill different roles. It is both a political governance tool and a legal tool as well as a symbol of the Norwegian. As one of the proposers for the resolution and investment proposal, I had hoped that this would be a historic day. So we're the only country in Europe that lacks some kind of right of dissolution. We remain alone in Europe – together with Denmark – if we do not have a roll-out decision, i.e. It is Parliament which, by its own decision, has to approve new governments. It would be to give the magnificence representatives more power. Since 1824, the right to dissolve has been on the agenda for the constitutional debates. Several of the parties in Stortinget are refusing to participate in a renewal of the form of government in Norway. I think it's an excessive fear that the right to dissolve the Storting will be abused. If you see Sweden, which is very similar to us, you will see that they have the possibility of disintegrating Riksdag, but that right is not mentioned – only four times in a hundred years. I want to quote from a very good chronicle of Eivind Smith and Trond Nordby who stood in the Evening Post on 24 May this year. It says the right of dissolution. ‘may be a natural compensation for the generally impaired position of governments under parliamentary rule. Many object that the right of dissolution easily leads to frequent choices and thus to fatigue’. I believe that any printing of the new election during a four-year period would rather be giving and showing the voters the confidence it is in having the actual decisive word. For my part, the introduction of the right of dissolution and investment will also be followed up by a constitutional proposal – if necessary – to allow elected representatives to stop, leave the landfill, over a four-year period. I can also promote that independently of the right of dissolution. I think it is a little sad that the Stortinget today will not renew the Constitution and therefore also our governance. But in the next period of time, maybe the games will be ripe for this, as luckily they were when we almost unanimously decided to lay down the nodelsting and laying. It would also be nice if we could celebrate in seven years' time that the Constitution is 200 years old, have both the right to dissolve and investment in place in the new Constitution. But it still has to be seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e509	It has often been pointed out that the Great Britain's debates are suffering from the lack of broad participation. Or put a little bit more at the head: it has been claimed that most debates in this room are actually committee meetings held in the main hall, unlike in the committee room. It is linked to the specialisation of policy and the increasing privilege of the technical committees to go into matters so deeply that they have the basis for participating in the plenary debates in the Stortinget. In the case of constitutional proposals, it should be different. Because although we have our own committee called the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, this was previously the case with constitutional issues under the Committee on Foreign Affairs, as is well known, it is quite clear that as fundamental a question as changing the constitution should involve the whole process of enlargement, across professional committees. That is why I see it as a challenge to participate as far as possible in the debates on constitutional proposals. The representative Hagen worked hard to appeal in the direction of bringing together the sufficient 2/3 majority – if I understood him correctly – on the grounds that there is a unique occasion that may never come back in history. He approached rhetorically to the introductory replication of Johan Herman Wessel's selectivity without Smurf: «You will never be married if there is a happening today!» I must say I miss the logic of it. If the alliance between the Labour Party and the Advance Party is not a cyclical, tactical alliance right at the moment, then the two parties will be perfectly free to re-propose the proposal in the next period and, if necessary, try to get others to join in. So I think that's exactly that moment you can safely ignore. The issue of the right of dissolution has had to be dealt with for quite a long time, and one can well expect that if there is no constitutional majority to introduce the right of dissolution today, it will, until certainness, be re-enforced for the next period of enlargement. So I think you should clearly ignore that kind of appeals and arguments and discuss the content of the matter. The most interesting thing in the debate so far is that the representative Svein Roald Hansen, who represents one of the three current government parties, had the very opposite reality description of the relationship between government and greatness than the Inge Ryan, parliamentary leader of one of the other two government parties, had. I think that is very interesting, because it shows that the rhetoric about majority parliamentaryism and minority parliamentarism is well on the way to eradicating the really interesting issues. It can be argued that minority parliamentarism is a contradictory concept, and of course it is formally considered, because the content of parliamentarianism is that no government can govern this country across the majority of the population. But the reality is that the difference boils down to the question of whether there is a permanent majority constellation behind a government in the Storting, or just one from case to case-multiple constellation. For a majority it will have to be either way. There is only majority parliamentaryism, but it exists in two different versions. Then it's probably right to remember that in Norwegian political history, minority governments have been the rule and majority governments have been the exception. In this respect, Norway differs from the vast majority of other countries with parliamentaryism as a system. I noticed that the representative Hansen stressed the negative aspects of minority governments by showing concretely to the Workers' Party's experience of being in a minority position with government responsibility. He did not attempt to carry out a more comprehensive assessment, and I assume that with the negative experience of the Workers' Party, he actually intended to refer to two specific cases, namely the first Stoltenberg government and the government of Jagland. Then it was forgotten that Gro Harlem Brundtland, with his governments, was also in a minority position. But at that time, the Labour Party obviously had no major problems with it and did not reap negative experiences from it – perhaps because the then prime minister acted with such great certainty that they forgot that she had no majority behind her; she ruled as if she had it. Such a great confidence obviously did not have the two succeeding prime ministers from the Workers' Party. The point of this is to warn a little against making randomly selected experience examples the basis for changing the system. As a basis for changing the system, an attempt should be made to include a comprehensive picture in which strong and weak aspects are evaluated both by governments with a permanent majority behind them in the Storing and governments without a permanent majority behind them in the Storing. Then I'm probably inclined to agree with the representative Sponheim that the experience we've had with the current majority government is not suitable to strengthen the belief in the rhetoric that only there is a nominal majority behind the government of the Great Britain, so you get predictability, you get long-term, you get stability, you get decision-making power. There is nothing in the experience in the last two years that confirms this. On the other hand, there are a lot of examples of the opposite. It is quite obvious to me that no minority government would have been able to allow itself to deal with a matter that the airline purchase case has done in the way that this government has done, namely to let it reverse the wind and be armed from the internal warfare of the government parties with each other through the media week out and week before the Stortinget comes into contact with the matter at all. And then you put it on the Stortings table with the expectation that the Storting will take its position so to speak at the moment. Now I can update the representative Sponheim on the solution of that matter, because the Presidency has actually taken a stand today. There will be a week's postponement of the Great Britain's employment in this spring session, simply because it's the only possible way to get to a fair trial in the Storting, when the Government spends so long negotiating with itself, in full publicity, before it comes to the Biggest at all. I believe the benefit of the experience we have gained in the last two years is that it will be much more difficult in the future to go out to Norwegian voters and promise that majority constellations automatically give strong governments. It is simply not for believers. There is yet another distinction to be introduced, namely the distinction between real majority governments and synthetic majority governments, i.e. the distinction between real majority governments and synthetic majority governments. a majority based on such a high degree of political agreement and commonality between the participating parties that they form a political unit and majority formations which are essentially based on contrary to the laws of content of the policy and in which the participating parties are in conflict with each other in important areas of conflict. At my discretion, the connection between investment and resolution is an artificial connection. There are no factual compelling arguments that suggest that the two things belong together with some kind of logical or political necessity. Therefore, I agree with the representative Foss that if it is now the case that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party have undergone a maturation process, or a reversal process, in which they are set to introduce the right of dissolution into the Basic Law, it is surprising that they cannot, in any case, subsidising the right of dissolution without having an impact on the investment. I'm not going to go into all the hypothetical issues that have been aired in connection with different government formations and different processes of governments, for example. in the textual exchange between the representative Hagen and the representative Foss, but only memory of what is closest in time. Because I think the representative Hagen is going to get hurt in order to sub-communicate the informal aspects of the game of power that is taking place in connection with the formation of governments in favour of the formalized rules. The reality is that after the 2001 elections, the representative was Hagen who was incarcerated by the new government. And it was also the representative Hagen who set it aside – God better. He did so correctly on the television screen, while the insertion took place in the back chambers of this house. You don't have to put your light under a ship. It is fully possible to participate with both a finger and a whole hand without being permitted by formal regulations. Let me also stress that the topic we are discussing raises an even more general question: how far is it possible in rules form in the Constitution to govern the political behaviour of the Stortinget? After all, the investment proposal presupposes that, in principle, it is possible to provide a culture of accountability in the Stortinget through formal rules. I must say that my confidence in it is very limited. I believe, like the representative Foss, that when it comes to the problem and there are serious political controversy in the relationship between government and big business, it's not the formal rules that govern the course, no matter how detailed you try to create them. I don't think that the course of any of the government formations you've shown as an example in this debate would have been significantly different if you had invested. It is in this case – I would say – up to those who believe in the investment institute, to prove or to make sure that the course would have been significantly different. I find it sad that this time, too, there does not seem to be a constitutional majority to introduce the right of dissolution. Not because I think it has very great practical significance, but because I believe that the fact that virtually all countries with a constitutional tradition similar to ours have some sort of safety valve in order to solve situations where everything locks up due to difficult constellations between the parties, speaks for that we should also have it in the Norwegian constitution. It will be a small contribution to the fact that in given situations following a cabinet question and after a government has entered such a serious collision course with Stortinget that there is no basis for it to continue, there will be an emergency brake in which it is possible to pull. Let me just mention at the end that I noticed that the representative Hagen made a rather interesting admission in his strong lawyering for investment, namely that there is a quite obvious weakness in the proposal that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are jointly behind, that is, what is going on in the future of the enlargement period in connection with extraordinary elections. At my discretion, it is in itself such a serious objection that one should vote against the proposal for that reason, for it may not be a good practice to adopt constitutional proposals that are agreed upon by everyone with a fundamental weakness, and then possibly to correct the weakness of the next enlargement period. It can't be a dangerous road.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e547	I was taught that when you're going to give some examples from history, you can't be too brief. I said in my speech that the Workers' Party's experience beyond the 1990s was that the political game was more about making sure that the Government's proposal was not adopted than about getting things done. Then pay is right in saying that the background to that statement was, of course, a surprisingly long and stable reign with the Workers' Party in a minority under Gro Harlem Brundtland's government. I think you need to go back a long way to find – if you find it at all – a time when more and more major reforms have been carried out in many areas, so it has the pay right in it. I also mentioned the Bondevik I government, which was probably not an example of a government that got through so much of what it proposed, but which thus exercised flexibility to survive. I agree with Inge Wohnung that it would have been an advantage to have the right to dissolve. But we're not in agreement with the frames around it. I share all the arguments for introducing the right of dissolution, and then we disagree whether a new choice should be for a new four-year period or not. But I have trouble understanding this strong resistance to investment. Lars Sponheim, and so far also Wage, used the debate for a small discussion about the power of action of the current government, which is then the first majority government for a while. Investiture, as Per-Kristian Foss said, is not a protection against populists. Nor is it a protection against governments that do not have the power to act. We might get governments that don't want that much change, that's not the point. The point is to get a new framework for the relationship between government and magnification. As Per-Kristian Foss said in his post, and as I agree, there is no doubt that a long period of minority government has shifted the power relationship in a direction that can give unfortunate results in terms of achieving stable political governance over time. Wages asked: How far can a political process be regulated or regulated? No, it's not far. But we've created some institutional frameworks around the political process. Something is defined as a parliamentary practice that is respected, which is thus enshrined in the Constitution, which is part of Storting's Rules of Procedure. It helps to help, let's say, discipline, set limits for some rash that will be unfortunate for the government of the country. The point of the proposal is not, as Lars Sponheim seems to fear, any desire to erase the center of Norwegian politics. But Lars Sponheim probably also sees the difference between what was called the central government, which consisted of three central parties and which could settle the budget a little to the right and a little to the left, and the cooperative government, which had the centre of gravity further to the right, which tried to settle the budget first with the Progress Party, then with the Workers' Party and not excluded from doing so with the SV. I think we must agree that if we had now received three state budgets that had been settled one year with the Progress Party, the other with the Workers' Party and the third with the Swedish Labour Party, those budgets would not have been a stable economic course. That's what's the point to avoid. It's hard to understand that it's better to risk doing these things on a case-by-case basis with different parties and get an exchange on the political course than to do it when you're going to form a government and create a government basis that's clarified, and that you're going to conduct the government's policy in the period, as you've done in this period, and as you could do in the previous period, if you had invested and got a more formal basis to work on with the Progress Party. Ola T. Lånke felt that the proposal was not in principle justified. That's what I'm saying. There is a need to strengthen the division of labour and responsibilities between government and enlargement. So SVs Inge Ryan, like both Lånke and Sponheim, uses the quote I also used: «All power in this hall». But it's not the coin that this hall is going to make all the decisions. It's the coin that all power with regard to which government is to rule is to lie in this hall – and it does. With regard to that description of the closed rooms processes in the government as opposed to the open processes in the Stortinget, I have to ask: Where are the open processes in Stortinget? The Committees, which are the tools of the Storing to create a majority and shape positions, are closed. And as far as I know, none of the groups have begun to practice open group meetings yet. You're based here on a slightly different description than what's real. Inge Ryan wants more power for Parliament. It is not a parliament in the world that has as much power as the Norwegian Magnificent. But Inge Ryan wants even more. Let me just say that Inge Ryan has two years of experience from a majority government and no experience from a minority government. Then he could see something different about it. Let me just briefly make the following comment: I agree with Per-Christian Foss that it is possible to introduce the right of dissolution, as suggested by the Right, without any investment. There are many countries that have, and that is quite possible. But the view of the Labour Party is that the two things are connected, not because they must be linked, but we believe that this is the right context. On the other hand, I totally disagree with Ola T. Loan that argues that it is possible to invest without having a solution. Then he interprets it a little humorous and refers to the Pope's election. The difference is that the pavement is to be governed on the same basis whether you choose person A or person B. However, Norway should not be governed on the same basis if you choose Jens Stoltenberg or Carl I. Hagen as Prime Minister. There is a significant difference between a pope's election and a Prime Minister's election. Carl I. Hagen was a little worried. He wanted a little change between majority governments and minority governments, because he was so concerned that a majority government can make the Storting a despatch office. In that case, it is a slightly weakened confidence in half of the representatives of the Storting. I can allow myself to yell so carefully from the inner life. I have been in this house from 1983, first as an adviser, and when I look back and compare with what I experience today through influence from the parliamentary majority base of the Government, the involvement and influence before the Government presents its affairs is considerably greater today than in the 1980s. I think those who have been in the Storting longer than that, can confirm it in relation to their governments. To worry about getting a bunch of big business representatives who can be reduced to a dispatch office, even though they are representatives of parties that constitute a majority government, is a worry that is quite unnecessary. Finally, let me just fill out a little bit of the interesting description of the 1986 crisis that we experienced in the interplay between Carl I. Hagen and Per-Christian Foss. So the working party did not vote against what they were in favour of. The working party voted against a distribution profile at the time, and it was not possible for that government to change the distribution profile. The working party had voted in favour of an increase in the petrol charge if the Willoch government had been willing to propose some other measures that could create more evenness in the distribution profile. That's the whole story.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e574	Let me first say that I don't think we'll ever agree that there's one correct description of reality of what happened in 1986. There I think we just get to say that we have each of ours, but at least I find that the Workers' Party first voted against increasing the petrol tax by a certain amount, and then a few weeks later voted to increase by the same amount, while the Advance Party both voted against increasing the petrol tax. But that's what we get back to in other contexts. Otherwise, it was also interesting to hear from the inner life of the present government. What the rest of us have been concerned about is not that the government does not have talks and negotiations with its big business representatives until you make your decisions. What I tried to find out is that the Storting as a legislative, granting and deciding institution as such now appears to be an office of despatch for the government – by its way of working on and listening to advice from various parties – to do. It is the Stortinget as an institution that, in the context of a few of the cases mentioned by Inge Wohnning and also by Lars Sponheim, is seen as a dispatch office. In a constitutional context, it can't really make sense that when the government comes up with complicated issues after months and years of negotiation internally, you've locked yourself up to that solution and are not susceptible to recordings from other party groups in the Stortinget. That's when you can approach the arrogance that I warned against in my post when it came to majority governments, to the Storting as an institution. It is clear that for the Storting as an institution this is a topic that needs to be discussed, because we all know that it had not been for a significant activity, largely from the opposition parties with representation proposals, there had been a massive criticism that the Storting had nothing to do. After a long period of time when we had nothing to do, the government suddenly comes with a bunch of cases to exploit the possibility at the end of a spring session, because then the cases go through without serious, sound and responsible proceedings. We know that billions have flown late night hours in earlier times in the treatment of revised national budgets and other matters. That's what we've been trying to prevent. So I also think that the government parties should take on board that it can't make any sense that the Storting as an institution is viewed and treated by the Government and government parties as a dispatch office. Then the representative Inge Wohnung stated that the informal conversations and informal decision-making systems may be as important as the formal ones. I can agree with him on that. But during all the informal talks and decisions, the formalities lie at the root. Formalities are political realities. It is the systems at the bottom that are the basis for all discussions. We see it in Stortinget when we make up and do a lot of things, put things together in committees, etc. There are the formalities that govern. And that's a majority choice. That means that if two parties that make up the majority of the Storing merge in terms of new cabals, the others know that these have the power if they want to. This is why we are trying to be constructive in negotiations to find agreed solutions. Formalities are rigid political realities. So Inge asked wages if it could be made probable that the course of some government formations would have been different if we had had a system of positive parliamentaryism, investment. My answer is that yes, all of them, at least in the time I have been in Stortinget, would have been different if the formalities on which it was based were to require a positive decision to collapse in support of the formation of the government. There had been huge problems internally for the Willoch government in 1985, when they would not even pretend that the two representatives of the Progress Party existed. Then they had to deal with it, which two of the parties completely refused to do. Then they had been forced to seek a majority vote. And it is not certain that the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party had voted in favour of the Willoch Government. Then you wanted to make something very visible about not making it visible. The same would have been true after the Willoch government had accepted its rejection application. Then the Labour Party had to have a majority. It meant that one of the intermediate parties, or the Right or Advance Party, must have actively voted for the Workers' Party Government. It's not certain that Jakobsen and Bondevik would have liked it. Then they had kind of been revealed. It had had significance for the formation of government in 1989, when Syse formed a government based on the election results of the Femskrit party. Then we had to be taken into account in a completely different way. It wouldn't have been that easy to get started, since it was just to get the retired Prime Minister to ask the King to pass on a mission. Then the Storting had been inside the picture. The same was true at least in 1997. Then we got the weak minority government Bondevik I, because Thorbjørn Jagland chose to advise His Majesty to turn to Kjell Magne Bondevik. If Thorbjørn Jagland had chosen – as he could in theory – to address the leader of the largest party after the Workers' Party, it would have been a completely different situation. If we had made an investment, a demand for positive parliamentaryism, in 1997, then the Right Party and the Progress Party must have voted in favour of the creation of the central government – or the Labour Party should have done so. There would have been a completely different situation that led to the informal discussions that took place in this house, because then some parties would have had the weapon that if you don't do this and so, we won't vote for it. Then other constellations could appear in the conversations, because then it was this house that ruled this, rather than that it was a advice from outgoing Prime Minister to His Majesty the King – which is usually followed. And that could have been a completely different situation. That could have been the case in 2000. In 2000 the cabinet was asked questions, and the Right and Workers' Party voted so that Bondevik I left. If it had been positive parliamentaryism, it would then be thought that it would be right to support the formation of a minority government from the Workers' Party – which was what we were given. Is it certain that the Right, which would primarily have removed the central government, had made itself available to support the formation of a minority government of the Workers' Party? Or had positive parliamentaryism been used to try to negotiate with the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and possibly also the Advance Party, to perhaps get a continued bourgeois government, because one was dependent on getting a majority behind the government by voting? It is clear that that formality change had a significant effect on the formation of the first Stoltenberg government. The first Stoltenberg government was formed because Kjell Magne Bondevik referred to Jens Stoltenberg. But what if he had been dependent on getting support from voting? He escaped without any investment. I mentioned in 2001. So my answer to Inge Wohnung is that yes, there is no problem to suggest that at most of the government changes since 1985, there would be completely different procedures and discussions if there had been at the bottom of a constitutional rule that a new government had to have a majority for its insertion in a vote in the Grand Duchy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e595	After a debate that has been going on for two hours now, we may well be a few that we have been given ample insight into both the arguments that can speak for and those that can speak against the proposals that are before us. It has been interesting to listen to articles here that give you different experiences, both over time and through different types of collaboration constellations. I just want to make three different points. The only thing is that when I sit here listening, I have to make a choice – whether there is something that has been said in the debate, which should be undisputed, or not. On behalf of myself and the Center Party, I must say that I disagree with the characteristics given here by the Bondevik I-government. It's an example of having different experiences, and here's the shared meaning of what we can learn from the past. So I'd say that it's easy to stand here and characterize how a plural government should act. In my view, it is a significant potential in the opposition when it comes to listening and being constructive. If this was a requirement for a plural government, which I think one should do, it wouldn't have been entirely by the way to set the same requirement for itself too, at least in between. The relationship between magnification and government has been a theme. It is a recurring theme, and should be, in a plural constellation as well as from the opposition's side. It is clear that there are challenges to always being open, listening and constructive, beyond what one can achieve through a plurality and can prepare ahead of time before one comes to the Storting. Finally, I would like to say that this debate has convinced me once again that we are on the right track when we reject the proposals that are being made today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e608	My intention is not to try to prolong the debate in this matter, which seems to go to an end. I would just like to comment on a few statements by the representative Svein Roald Hansen who went on my and Christian People's Party's attitude to primarily investing. Svein Roald Hansen expressed it roughly so that the Christian People's Party and the undersigned were in favour of an investment scheme, without any right of dissolution. I don't think that's what I said. What I said was that it could be thought that such a system would be more disciplinary than if the right to dissolve was introduced. But I also said it would have other, unfortunate sides. I avoided going into the debate all the time when there was no simple proposal that included investment as an element of the Constitution. That seems to me to be a slightly different debate, and the committee has also avoided going deep into that matter, for that reason. Furthermore, the representative showed Hansen for my comparison with the Pope's election. I think the representative Hansen drew that point far from what was my intention. For my point, there was nothing other than saying that the absence of a right of dissolution inevitably puts an extra pressure on the participants, the elected representatives, to try to find a solution. Another comparison with the Pope's election, I find it also unnatural. If we were to do that, it also had to include equipping this house with a chimney, so that it could get smoke out once you had come up with a solution. But I assume that it would also be experienced as a foreign element in our tradition, like the right of dissolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e617	Let me first say that I am reassured that the Christian People's Party has, in more thought, given the idea of the Pope's election, as far as I understood for both building and other reasons. I think that's good. Let me also say, as a little comment on the post by Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa, that a majority government should be listening and receptive to recordings from the opposition: we've heard that relatively many times in the last two years, but we've seen very little of it in practice so far. The test on which the Storting must of course insist is decisive as to whether the communication between a majority government and the Storting is institutionally satisfactory, is about a majority government in practice, in its case-law, and not least in its time-consumption, towards the Storting in a way that is a minority government per. definition would never have been able to do. There have been some very recent examples in this debate that this is the case, and no one has disputed – as far as I have heard – that some of the cases show the weakness of fixed majority formations, namely that one can behave unreasonably sovereignly in relation to the Storting and the Constitutional function of the Storting. I asked for the word again to follow up the little conversation with Carl I. Hagen. I think his attempt to come up with examples that were to justify that it would make a significant difference to investment was interesting. When I sat and listened to the examples, I was somewhat in doubt whether the examples were suitable for strengthening investment as the institute, or suitable for the opposite. At my discretion, they were largely suited to the opposite, namely to show that investment would have complicated the political processes. What is the quality test is not primarily how the technical process takes place until the formation of a government. The interesting thing is whether the outcome, namely the government constellation that comes out, is viable or not, and whether it meets the quality requirements that are agreed upon for a government, namely that it should show a reasonable degree of action, determination, consistency in what it does, and it should add up to a policy that makes it predictable for its citizens and for the outside world what kind of policy the Kingdom of Norway is pursuing. I don't think any of the examples that Carl I referred to, which are individually interesting as historical examples, are suitable to suggest that an alternative course and an alternative form of government formation would have increased quality. This might have led to other constellations, but there is nothing to suggest that it would have strengthened the interaction between the Storting and the government that came out. I will carefully comment on one example that is interesting, namely what Hagen referred to happened in 1999, when the central government went off after asking cabinet questions in Stortinget. As far as the right is concerned, that vote concerned the content of the matter, namely the construction of gas power stations. The right did not find a basis for expressing its views on the matter because of the issue of cabinet questions, but voted in favour of the political position that we had stood for for for many, many years, and that the Government in advance well knew that we stood for. I consider that to be clean and consistent. The party of progress chose in that situation the completely opposite line, namely, to vote against the position they were in fact for even higher than the Right actually was, to rock the Government. It is in itself all right, because it follows from the nature of the cabinet issue that it will force the parties in this room to weigh against each other the emphasis on the substance of the specific matter and the emphasis on the future of the government and its ability to survive. Carl I. Hagen agreed that it is limited how far rules can promote responsible conduct from the party groups in this Chamber. But in the next moment, he repeated several times that formalities are political realities, yes, he even reinforced it for the second time to say that formalities are «hard political realities». There may be a discord between us, but all that Carl I. Hagen later used to substantiate this claim went to the process -- what one tends to call games in this house with a slightly demeaning word. I guess that's where we talk a little bit past each other, because I think that even if the game can be fascinating – it can even make people play addicts – it's the seventh and last thing that's going to be about. And creating a viable government doesn't count mandates in this room. It is necessary to determine whether there is an adequate political community between the groups of parties which may form a government together. That's where I believe that the experience shows that the nominal distinction between governments with a permanent majority behind them in the Storing and governments without such a permanent majority behind them actually dissolves as a fictitious and relatively uninteresting distinction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e630	The representative, Carl I. Hagen, has spoken twice before in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e633	I just want to correct the misunderstanding in which Inge Wohnung was now guilty, when he claimed that there were cabinet questions about the construction of gas power plants in 1999. It was not done at all. It was in completely different voting and completely different proposals. There was a question of cabinets on a proposal that had roughly the wording: the Storting assumes that the pollution law will not be weakened. It really had nothing formal to do with the gas power issue. It was the Right Party and the Labour Party that wanted to change the Government. I have just read about these things in connection with another work I am doing, and I actually went through that debate just a few days ago. So the representative's salary has a misunderstanding and misconception about the formal basis for the cabinet issue. He interpreted it into a completely different political reality, as the Labour Party and the Right did – they could – but there was no reason to do so based on the wording of the proposal, which had nothing to do with gas power plants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e638	No, no, no. That's not the correct representation of the political realities, what Hagen is now doing. It was a real political debate and a vote on the relationship with gas power plants. That it was then negotiated a proposal in which a reference was given to the pollution law, which happened in a present office, between the representative Hagen and Bondevik, we all know that in retrospect. But in reality, it was about gas power plants. I want to challenge Hagen to come up to the pulpit and explain – on a later occasion – whether it really is such that he believes that the pollution law had been weakened by that decision. It was a construction to hide the fact that the Progress Party, which was the most for gas power plants of all at the time, who are now, actually voted against their factual conviction. That is why the proposal was reworded. But the reality has shown, politically in retrospect, that it was a gas power plant, simply.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e643	No salary has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e646	If I can contribute to the work that Carl I. Hagen has going on in his spare time, I just remember that the year 1999 is wrong. It was in 2000. Memory shifts can hit the best. Otherwise, I must say that there was absolutely no misunderstanding on my part, because I was talking about the political reality, not about the formalities. The representative Foss is quite right in saying that what Carl I. Hagen referred to as a formality, in fact, was the result of a horse trade that took place in late night hours or early morning hours between a figure for the then government and Carl I. Hagen, and that led to the wondrous formality that tried to derail the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e658	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[See pages 3215 and 3218]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e674	We have been given a proposal to give 16-year-olds the right to vote in the event of a roll-out. The majority in the committee think there's no way to go now. The main reason is that we believe that the age of voting must be in line with the age of voting and also with the age of election. Norway has been in many ways a transitory country with the right to vote. We were among the first in the world to introduce general voting rights. We were among the first – not the first, but the first – to introduce women's voting rights. We were also of the first to lower the voting age to 18 years, as he is today. We have a picture gallery and an electoral age of 18 years. This means that one can be elected to the Stortinget, municipal government and county council as an 18-year-old, because one is authoritative and has the right to vote when one is 18. Being a people's power means some responsibility that one else has to tie up to actually being authoritative. If you were to have a vote and a stand at 16, a 16-year-old would be able to enter the Storting. But he wouldn't be authoritative. This would lead to certain consequences in political behaviour. For example, if a 16-year-old would be electable to sit on the municipal board, he could per. definition in theory becomes a saying in the municipality. He would also sign large loan transactions on behalf of the municipality. Then he had to bring his parents to sign, because he was not authorized. Should a change in the age of the voting rights, a change should also be made to the age of eligibility and, where appropriate, to the age of the imagery. The majority think we have come to a reasonable age in Norway when we have a picture gallery and a voting age of 18. A little paradox, which I might not be involved in this debate, is that an 18-year-old, who speaks in a municipality, can sign loan transactions for millions of dollars, but one is not allowed to go on the pole and buy a bottle of aquevit for Christmas ribs. There's one side of this with the picture spell. How far would you stretch it? It's a page leap, but that's the way it is. Against this background, the plural recommendation is that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e689	I can very much agree with the rapporteur's review of the proposal, but I might point out that it is much easier to obtain an aquevit for a 16-year-old than to sign a loan. It could be tempting to continue a good Hedmark tradition by supporting a constitutional proposal to reduce the age of voting rights. Odvar Nordli was one of the proposers who had decided to lower the age of voting from 21 to 20 years. In November 1978 the Stortinget adopted 18 years of voting age, where Sigbjørn Johnsen was one of the proposers. But even if the temptation is there, I have to choose a different approach in this case. The reason why the Workers' Party cannot support such a proposal is that we are opposed to the age of voting rights following the age of authority. Moreover, such an approach has been widely endorsed in the United Kingdom by the 2002 electoral law. It is commendable that the proposers wish to increase their political commitment and increase the participation of young people in the elections. In the opinion of the proposers, there should also be as many voting rights as possible in a society that wishes to have a democratic system. But it may be worth mentioning in this context that low voting age does not provide a clear guarantee that democratic processes and political engagement give momentum and vitality. In Iran, for example, The age of voting rights is 15 years, and in Cuba it is 16 years, without being able to draw this entirely to the income of the living conditions of democracy and rule in these countries. I consider it absolutely necessary to equalise the age of eligibility, authority and voting. There are clear concerns by giving 16-year-olds the right to vote for that reason. Youth in Norway at the age of 16 and 17 is still in an educational situation. A distinction between voting rights and eligibility as proposed would therefore not be a particularly credible way of dealing with the age of voting rights. This would have caused special problems related to the integrity of non-authorised wholesalers. Lowering the age of voting in the event of major elections would also give rise to 16-year-old magnification representatives, to which the rapporteur also emphasised. Under the current law, a 16-year-old is not valid, and I think it is very natural that the age of voting follows the age of authority. On this basis, we do not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e706	I want to change the perspective a little bit on this debate. Because I think we should start by assuming that voting rights are the very foundation of any democracy. Our starting point must therefore be that we need to ask ourselves why people should not have the right to vote, and have specific reasons for that, rather than, as in particular. The representative, Lodve Solholm, took as his starting point, why in the world we are going to lower this, and ram many good arguments as to why we should not lower the age of voting to 16 years. My starting point is the opposite. As the right to vote is the fundamental foundation of democracy, the question is: who is to be cut off from this fundamental right? Today, everyone under 18 is being cut off from being able to participate in choosing who is to sit in this room and decide. On the SV side – and I as one of the proposers for this proposal – we believe that we should lower that age to 16 years. I would like to refer to the debate that took place in 1978, when the age of voting was last lower. I'll refer from the setting, where the committee says: ‘Investment of social and political interests among young people has increased, the education system is strongly developed, and a reduction in the age of voting rights could contribute to a further positive development in the area of social interest.’;» This is a good starting point and good arguments even today. We have an increasingly better education system, children start earlier in school, people today have more knowledge of society than they have had before, and more people carry out larger and longer education courses. It's one of the things that makes me think there's good reason to say that the voting rights are to be lowered to 16 years. So there are few who can say that a 16-year-old today is not mature, has no insight into social issues or is unable to make important choices in his own life. I want to draw up a different border, as the representative Lodve Solholm seems to be an important age limit to bring forward in this context. The penalty limit – the limit on when one can be judged to be responsible for his crimes – is 15 years. So it's the way people can be judged for crimes, but they have no way of helping to influence the rules they're going to be judged by. They don't have the right to vote. That's another angle of incidence. Of course, there must be a necessary correlation between the age of authority and the age of voting. But on that occasion, I just want to say that Sweden has also had discussions about age at different levels, where there has not always been a correlation between age of authority and age of voting. So I just want to say that it's not like that there has to be a context, although there are arguments that such a relationship is good to have, as the previous speaker stressed. But when we come to the arguments for, there are several arguments I'm counting on, and I think it's important to include them in the debate. One argument is that there is no doubt that young people's affairs would be more focused on the social debate if we had a voting age of 16 years. In Germany, in some Länder, that type of voting age, namely 16 years, has been implemented, and the effect of introducing this was that the parties were more concerned with raising youth issues. In addition to this, there was a greater commitment among those who were 16 years old, to getting involved in political affairs. And I recognize it from my own family, because it was when my siblings were going to start using their voting rights, that they started to figure out what the different parties stood for. And that's not illogical. If you have a civil right, it makes sense that you get into who you're going to vote for. I think the political commitment – and the commitment of a party – would have been aroused earlier if we had lowered the age of voting. Another thing: Democracy must be taught. It's about election breakup. Not surprisingly, the electorate over the age of 60 has the highest turnout in major elections. At the last major elections, in 2005, 83 pst voted. Of those over 60 years of age, the number of 18 to 21 year-olds voting was down to 55,3 p.m. The point is that the rise in the number of elections is increasing the older you get. In other words, choices are taught. So voting, using your civil rights, is something you learn. You have to practice. If we had lowered the voting age to 16 years, most likely more of the 18-year-olds, several of the 20-year-olds and several of the 22-year-olds would have voted – because they would have a choice. They would have had two different choices in which they could get involved in the matter. These are important arguments because I think voting for 16-year-olds would have helped to expand democracy. I believe that the reasons why 16-year-olds are not considered to be as mature as 18-year-olds, 20-year-olds, 40-year-olds, 60-year-olds or 80-year-olds should be explained in particular when it is said that they are not to be granted this civil right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e736	The President expects the representative to make a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e739	Yes. I'm addressing the Socialist Left Party's proposals in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e744	The representative Heikki Holmås has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e749	The representative Holmås said nothing about the choice – about being able to be elected. It might be interesting to challenge him when it comes to it, when he now wants to lower the age of voting. Most people will assume that if a person decreases the age of voting rights, it should also be natural that the age to be elected should be lowered. It might be interesting to get right how the representative of SV will implement this in practice, when a 16-year-old can be elected to Stortinget and must move from the «extremely naked island», for example, to Oslo. As a 16-year-old, he/she has to stay on the furniture to perform his/her duties – without being authoritative. My question must be: why doesn't SV – if they really mean this proposal and there's no play in the election – suggest that both the imagery, the voting age and the age to be elected are set to 16 years? There will be no one to vote, but there can be no influence or selection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e758	As I mentioned in my previous post, I do not believe that there is an absolute correlation between age of authority, age of voting rights and age of eligibility. There are also different practices from one country to another in this respect. That is why we do not think this is essential. If it is the case that the representative Lodve Solholm would have supported our proposal if we had changed it somewhat, I am sure we would have been willing to do so in the next round. So to be practical, the voting age here in the country is 18 years, the age of authority is 18 years, and in order to be elected to the Grand Duchy, you have to be 18 years old. But there aren't very many 18-year-olds on Stortinget – to say it carefully. There's not necessarily a context here. That the Storting would no longer be populated by men over 50 years of age, but by "a pile" of 18-year-olds or 16-year-olds is not particularly likely. I believe that the representative also agrees. In addition, there are a number of people living on the furniture today. They've moved away from home because they're going to school in another part of the country. Not in Oslo, but in large parts of District Norway, it's a very common phenomenon. So I don't think it will be what overturns this case – either in one direction or in the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e772	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e775	In 1814, the voting rights were limited to a small selection of men. The age of voting rights was 25 years. Later, social developments have moved in one direction, and the Constitution has been changed in one direction: more have been given the right to vote – first women, then younger women and younger men. In 1923 the age of voting was reduced to 23 years. Then he went down – to 21 years in 1946, to 20 years in 1967, and then to 18 years as late as 1978. Now there's an opinion that's common and widespread: one person, one voice. It's also relatively new. In the 1800s, e.g. people in Sweden – at least in local elections – voting rights depending on taxable income. The more one paid in taxes, the more voting rights. Businesses had voting rights, according to the amount of tax paid. This made e.g. Kiruna – the red mining town of Norrland – was long ruled by conservative politicians. Even though most people were radicals, even communists, the mining company had more votes and voted on the Right. In the United Kingdom, until the 1940s, more voting rights in more than one electoral ring, partly based on ownership rights, but also due to challenge, could also be voted in Oxford, even if after study they had settled elsewhere, and had voting rights there. This shows that the regime has been, and is, in development — not least when it comes to the basis, the view and the definition of who should be able to vote. In the Western world, the starting point for democratic development has been different, cf. different systems, different rules and different perceptions in e.g. Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom. Then inequality has evened out over time – democracy has been more alike. In a debate like this, it will also be interesting to mention some international aspects. Some countries have continued — at least when voting age is involved. Iran is probably the most radical country in that way. There are 15-year-olds. In Brazil, Cuba and Nicaragua, the age of voting rights is 16 years, while Indonesia, South Korea and Sudan have adopted and introduced voting rights from 17 years. In a way, this is a little bit special. According to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, everyone under the age of 18 is to be counted for and as a child, i.e. that the countries concerned have extended the rule of law to include adults and children. Children are entitled to take high-level responsibility. In Brazil, they have both the right and the obligation, because there is compulsory electoral selection. It's exactly what SV has in mind in his proposal that we find similar trends also in Germany. Since 1996, five German Länder have reduced their voting age to 16 years in municipal elections. It is Hessen, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, Lower Saxony, Nordrhein-Westfalen, Saxony-Anhalt and Schleswig-Holstein. There have been some research into the consequences of these changes. One finding is that the age group aged 16 to 18 has a higher turnout than the other age groups as a whole up to 45 years. In other words, lower voting age can contribute to both democratic mobilisation and learning. However, it is too early to say anything about the long-term consequences of these reforms. The proposal to lower the voting age further in Norway can also be seen as a natural continuation of the extension of the People's Government since 1814. The proposers lead to the good arguments of the square. It is unwise to say – categorically – that the 18-year limit of the day should always indicate the lower limit of who is allowed to vote in elections. On the other hand, the centre party has programmed that the 18-year limit should continue to apply. We shall therefore vote against the proposal. An argument for us is the Norwegian practice of equalising the age of voting when a host is both authoritative and old enough to accrue elected positions. Another objection is this: It should take some time to grow up. It is important to fend for childhood and youth — all in time. Not all, perhaps especially the smallest and youngest, should be called to action, responsibility and national rule until they have matured, found their form, so to speak, it has been called Aristotle's Son Politon – political man. So the center part is on the limit of the day. Let me finally add: The representative Heikki Holmås gave as a basis for the submission that it is important to stimulate efforts and to engage in social issues. We're very many in that it's an important challenge. But it doesn't depend on age of voting. It depends, in fact, on the fact that a challenge in both challenge institutions and society is taking it more seriously, not least those of us who belong to a political party must contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e807	Some days, it's more polite to be left-wing representatives in this room than other days, based on the tradition we actually administer. I think it's very polite today. I think it's almost funny to hear the arguments against this proposal. I think there are many left-wingers and left-wing women who have stood here and argued for an extension of the voting rights – from the point of view of lowering the age of voting rights, voting rights for women and also for people without property to have a vote. Today's arguments are amazingly similar. Arguments like 'all in its time' and whether you are'mature enough' for this can be traced back to the time when Frederike Marie Qvam fought for this, and all the other times this has been debated. What we're discussing here is actually the Constitution. If we change the Constitution, we have to change some other laws to make it stick together, but the Constitution is the basis. Getting a majority to change the Constitution is also the basis for revising the other laws. I think it is a little strange that there is one ground for formality to go against this proposal, and that is the link between the age of authority and the age of voting, because that link actually ceased at the time of the amendment to the law that was made in 1980. I've been on the list when I was 17. I voted as a 17-year-old because I was born late in the year. The link between age of authority and age of voting was already broken by the last amendment of the law. There's actually no consequence of that. You can actually be listed as a 17-year-old as long as you're 18 years old during the year. In fact, that connection has already ceased. So that's how we have age limits on a lot of different things. What is interesting to discuss is what age limits should be associated with the age of voting rights. The proposal mentions three things: You have to be responsible for your own actions, you can be imprisoned for criminal acts.You can choose the religion you want to be associated with. You can get out of the state church and into another religious community.Then it's the sexual lavalier, but I may not think that's as important as the proposers think. One thing I think is important, but as the proposers have not mentioned, is actually the obligation to pay taxes. If you have income as a 16-year-old or 17-year-old, you have to pay taxes, you have to provide an equation – you have to pay a share to the community – but you have no authority whatsoever to think about how the community will manage the money you contribute to the community. So to this with the level of knowledge. I want to make the following comparison: Both I and the representative Inge Ryan were born and raised in Namdalen, which is a district of valleys. In 1950–60, about 20 students in each coal entered the Namdal High School – 20 students in each coal in that valley district. It was going to be the 20 best in every coal that came in. It was the most competent, the most knowledgeable young people in the hill. Today, in Namdalen, there are 1,116 students in high school. If we take the 20 best of every coal of the 1,116 students, we're talking about a dramatic increase in the level of knowledge, a dramatic increase in the knowledge of the community around one, a dramatic promise of knowledge that the whole nation has been on for some decades. It is often pointed out that young people are not sufficiently politically active. I believe that we are the problem of politicians, political youth parties and the school. Firstly, we are impressed by the fact that the researchers and those who write about this belong to a generation we call 68 people, who have an illusion that they were the politically active youth generation, which – in all respect – is wrong. The 68s belong to the elite of the few 20 who came into high school, and it is clear that if one takes as few as they had in their university school, and withdraws those who are politically active today, enough young people today are dramatically much more politically active, politically committed and politically up-to-date than the 68s – or other images one had to have on this particular thing – were. In a large survey in Akershus a few years ago on youth policy activity, the youth was asked why they were not a member of a youth political party. The most common answer, the answer most people gave in the survey, was: Nobody has asked me. Most young people in Akershus stated as the main reason not to be a member of a political youth party that no one had asked them. It is a great warning to all parties in the field of youth policy. My point here is that the level of knowledge among today's youth is much higher. Their activity level is much higher. They are also forced to make very many great choices much earlier in relation to their own lives than what young people have had to do in the past, where time and again there has been the possibility of re-election. Then I just have to comment on two things that have been said in the debate. Firstly, it is argued that the age of voting cannot be reduced to 16 years because we may then be able to choose someone who is in an educational situation. To the big ones who said that, I just have to tell them that there are a lot of 18-year-olds who are too. The vast majority of 18-year-olds are in an educational situation. Every time we have choices, we actually choose people on the Grand Council who are in an educational situation, and one actually finds more examples of people who continue to be in an educational situation when they're on the Grand Council. There can't be any argument. So to what I might think is the strangest argument. Being elected to the Storting is not a knowledge test. You're supposed to be happy about that. No one is carrying out any tests on how much storage representatives can do before they get in. The majority representatives are elected for reasons of trust – trust among the voters, trust in their own party. If you get that trust when you're so young, you really deserve it. One shall not have such a test to be selected on the Stortinget. It's only the voters who choose who will be elected to the Storting, depending on whether they have confidence in whether people are able to do a job to represent the issues they're concerned with. That's why it's rather strange to argue as an argument that a major choice is a kind of knowledge test or knowledge control, I think. The left was the first party to propose to lower the age of voting. We were not the proposers here; it was a little limited how many proposals we had made in the previous period – before we got a little bigger. But we would like to support the draft constitution promoted by the SV, as the Left has always supported and supported such proposals when it has been important to extend the voting rights in order to strengthen democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e850	It is in the nature of the matter that age limits can never be justified in principle. That's why they can never be inflexible. Any age limit, in whatever direction it goes, downwards or upwards, will be preoccupied with a greater or lesser measure of chance — of course. It's about thinking about a number! When, for my part, I am going to vote against the proposal, it is because I think the justification from your side that has put forward the proposal is unusually deficient. As an argument, the criminal lavalry speaks to lower the age of voting rights. I have a big problem understanding the logic of that. It is probably much easier to understand the logic behind the limit that we have today, namely that the age of authority, which has a whole range of legal effects in many areas, is now 18 years old in Norway. It is also the age of choice and will continue to be so – even if this proposal is adopted. There would be an obvious inconsistency. But let me remind you that there is another reform adopted by the Stortinge for some years ago, which speaks against the 16-year election. It is that parents and superiors under Norwegian law today receive child benefit for their children up to the age of 18. Of course, there's no terrible argument in itself, but at least it's very unmusical for me if the legislative assembly on the one hand so demonstratively defines people as children up to the age of 18, and in the next moment begins to move the voting age down to 16 years. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa had a comparison with other countries. This comparison showed a very interesting relationship, namely that the countries that have reached the highest level of low voting age are the countries with which we do not want to compare in other contexts in terms of political systems. The closer we get to our own cultural tradition, the European, the more difficult it is to find examples that some have found it natural to lower the age of voting a bit in what legislation otherwise defines as the border between childhood and adult age. Of course, with regard to the definition of the term ‘child’ and the term ‘adult’, there are not very strong reasons for principle. It can be discussed whether there have been significant changes in society’s view of how long-term childhood should be. The reality is that, in the general sense, there is a diffuse third category between children and adults, namely youth, but it is not per. today specified anywhere in Norwegian legislation. I strongly support the arguments put forward in the field to lower the age of voting to 16 years – that it would be such an excellent educational tool that it would be part of education policy to lower the age of voting rights. Firstly, the argument will lead to far more radical positions than to stop at 16 years. If that was the point, you could start at a significant earlier point in practice. But at my discretion, it must be a much more important issue for all the parties in this room to ask why the picture is as the representative Holmås pointed out – that the further down into the age of voting, the lower the turnout. There's no probability that moving it down for two years would change significantly. Before you take the medicine, you must have diagnosed it. What makes voters less than 30 years old in today's Norway use their voting rights much less than voters over 60 years old? The representative Holmås made no attempt to answer that question, and none of us know with certainty what the answer is. But at least I have a proposal that I think has the probability of doing. This is because those who are today from 60 or maybe 50 years or more have grown up in a society where rights were associated with duties, and where they were trained to think that the fundamental democratic right is not a legal obligation – we do not want in Norway to impose a legal obligation to vote – but it implies a solid moral obligation to exercise the right. Children and young people who grow up in today's Norway are kind of put on an atmosphere that teaches them something completely different – that is, that you have rights free of charge, and you can choose and choose among them, who you find it too good to use, and who you find it not interesting to use. If that's where the problem lies, perhaps the educational challenge will have to be met in a completely different way from starting to manipulate with the age of voting, because then it's a much bigger challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e872	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e875	I just want to correct the representative's salary: I actually made an attempt to explain what is the reason why the number of votes is rising steadily. This is a trend we have seen in choices by choice. There are few who vote in the beginning, i.e. about half, and then the number is gradually increasing forward. I think it's just about learning to use the right to vote. It was not a pedagogical instrument, as the representative of Wage perceived it as, but a quite natural thing – that is, the first time you vote, many will be insecure. You have to know something about it, you have to learn something about it, and then the number is increasing. I also made an attempt to be principled and reverse the problem on my head. The representative's salary did not attempt to justify why he believes what he is doing. He was said to have good reasons to lower the age of voting. I said the opposite. For Inge Wohnning the question is: Why does Inge Wohnning think that people in this country who are 17 years old should be excluded from the privilege of being allowed to vote? In the same sling, I draw attention to the fact that one of the founding fathers was 17 years old when he attended the Eidsvoll assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e884	If I recall correctly, the person in question was the founding father of Bergen – it puts the matter in a slightly different light! To the representative Holmås: It is possible that he made an attempt, and that I only judged the attempt as so bad that I did not see it as an attempt. The representative Holmås overlooks in his reasoning a very decisive point, namely that those who are today from 60 years onwards have grown up in completely different circumstances and in a completely different cultural situation. They have not learned this from childhood through a gradual process of familiarisation. Had it been the same people, that is. had the time remained silent, the representative Holmås’ reasoning had been correct. But time doesn't stand still, so I think the reasoning is hopeless. With regard to the attempt to turn the issue around, the representative Holmås’ own reasoning is hit midship. Because why in all the worlds does he start at 16 years? Why on earth does he not believe that 15-year-olds are mature enough? There are examples of that too. Why not start at 14 years or 13 years or 12 years? The reasoning will be exactly the same all the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e893	I have to correct the representative's salary, because he says that everyone over 60 has grown up for a completely different time, making them more suitable to understand the meaning of rights and duties. I just want to say that the learning curve is pretty steep: among those who are 18-21, it's 55 pst. Among those aged 22–25, there are 63 pst., among those aged 26–29, 68 pst., and among those aged 30–39, we are up to 76 pst. So you don't have to be 60 to be part of this curve. This is a smooth curve, which makes me think I'm more right than the representative on that question. I can certainly agree to discuss how far down we are going to move the voting age. I think we can agree that 12-year-olds don't have a maturity that makes them fit to vote and to get involved in Norwegian politics, but I think 16-year-olds do. I think that Inge Wohnning owes 16-year-olds to tell them why he thinks they are not mature enough to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e900	The President reminds us that a line should be a question and not an article.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e903	I do not see that the obligation imposed on me by the representative Holmås exists. It is a notional obligation based on an arbitraryly chosen number – 16 – which is exactly as arbitrary as any other number in this context. It will be quite simply to turn around, as the representative Holmås himself said, the problem on his head. In general, I believe that it is those who propose to amend the Constitution, who have the burden of proof, and not those who defend the existing law. What I pointed out in my post was that I do not think the proposers are near to fulfilling that burden of proof in a convincing way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e908	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e911	Like other constitutional proposals, this doesn't seem to get a majority. You have to accept that, but at the same time it is healthy with a good debate. I think both the representative Heikki Holmås and the representative Trine Skei Grande have argued very well why this is a good proposal. Suffering if it doesn't get the majority, I think it's a bit too mature the whole thing. I hope that one step has been taken in the right direction until the next time it is promoted. I've read a little bit of history, I too, in as much as the representative of pay, but at least I've come to realize that the Right has largely opposed most of the changes in society. It may well be in the nature of a conservative party that you were against dissatisfaction when it was introduced, and old age when it was introduced, etc., but it's okay that you have some counterpowers on when you're going to argue about why you're going to get through your vision. Fortunately, there are also parties other than the Right that we can ally with in the Storting on this matter. The most important thing for me is what we're going to do about fewer and fewer people using the right to vote. So it's a democratic problem, and what are we going to do about it? There's a lot to do with it, but there's no doubt that one of those things is to get the youth previously held responsible and conscious of being allowed to go and vote. It is one important step, so that we can take care of our democracy by people going to the urns and voting when there are big shots and municipal elections. As far as the level of knowledge is concerned, I have had the pleasure of working with the age group around 16, and I very much agree that the level of knowledge among them is high. I have also, as rapporteur and otherwise as a politician, had the pleasure of visiting many nursing homes where you have the right to vote. If you compare the level of knowledge of patients in a nursing home with the level of knowledge of 16-year-olds, it's not always that the 16-year-olds lose to it. If we're going to discuss the level of knowledge, I think we're on a somewhat dangerous path if we're going to define it just by age. We don't have knowledge tests for who can vote in elections, and I think that 16-year-olds are essentially mature for it, but they may not be so motivated, so here's a job we have to do, we're busy using the voting rights. Today, the vast majority of people in this group are in high school. I think it would be positive for democracy to get in as part of the teaching that you should use your right to vote, that you use it while you go there.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e924	There are two things I want to comment on. I could say a lot about using my vote. I think there's a lot that can be done, and I think that when people feel that things around them that are important to them are threatened, they use their voting rights. It was the representative of Inge Wohnning's argument that you could not lower your voting rights, because then you got a child's pension. Then I am a little surprised. Then I wonder if it is the word ‘frugal’ or the word ‘children’ that leads to wages thinking it’s not going to work. Is it true that you have gone back to some old right-wing position that if you get public support, you can't have voting rights? There are quite a number of people who have voting rights and who get different support from the public. In relation to the term ‘child’, I would say that it is a living that has become part of an extension of a scheme that began with children. These concepts are sometimes used politically, but what I'm most amazed at here is that in a constitutional debate, which is supposed to be a fundamental debate on the Constitution, other laws, which I think logically have to be changed as a result of a constitutional change. However, the inclusion of the term ‘childcare’, which has been used as a name for a support scheme which has been extended to young people as well, seems to me to have been a very bad argument. Then I also have to make a little comment on what was said about rights and obligations. It's just one of my main points that the important duties you have in society are actually assigned as 16- and 17-year-olds. You are given the duty to pay taxes and submit a sea report, you can be punished for your actions, yes, you are so responsible for your actions that you can be imprisoned for them, and you also have the right to choose which religion you want to belong to. But what party list you're going to put in the urn, that's a lot harder. You have to know a lot more before you can do it than before you decide which religion to belong to, and which to me personally was actually a much harder and more profound decision than the party to which I was to pay the membership quota. There I believe that there is a mistake between rights and obligations. That gap is actually there today. Inconsistency can be demonstrated in view of what Solholm's representative pointed out earlier, that one should actually be able to sit and decide who should be granted a gift for a drink that is not available. It already has, so such incoherence in rights and duties, is also found today in being elected to the people and having power over things. We are obviously downcast today, but I, who have history and state science at the bottom, think that there are a lot of arguments here that are incredibly similar to arguments in a lot of other things that Left has been with and fought for in this house. The last inputs in this area have not exactly weakened that impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e938	I will resist the temptation to take up a debate with Ryan on recent Norwegian political history and the political history of the Right, both in general and in particular. I would like to note carefully that it confirmed what the representative himself said, namely that he has a significant potential for improvement in historical knowledge. To the representative of Skei Grande, she heard wrong. I did not show that you receive child welfare up to the age of 18. I pointed out that the superiors, i.e. those with responsibility for care under Norwegian law, receive child welfare for their children up to the age of 18. Of course, it has nothing to do with terminology. There is no way to introduce the category of youth as an undefined category between what the law defines as a child and what the law defines as an adult. We all have to deal with the fact that all Norwegian legislation until this day is based on a distinction between children and adults, and then we can have discussions about where that distinction should go. I am quite willing to take part in that discussion, but I have to remind the representative Skei Grande that it is the proposers who have led this argument by reference to other legal provisions, in this case the criminal lavalier, and they use it, as far as I can see, as the most substantive argument for the proposal to lower the voting age to 16 years. In this respect, it must be allowed for those who are sceptical about the proposal and the justification to point out that there are other and more adjacent legal provisions, more closely related to the age of voting rights, for example. the age of choice, which is far more relevant to emphasising when making any change to the constitution than exactly the reference to criminality and criminal law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e953	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3218]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e969	Municipal self-government was formally established when the Presidency laws were established in 1837. So it has a long history and is rooted in our democracy. Local democracy has not been static in these 170 years, but has evolved and continues to evolve. Regional reform will be the next stage of this development. Any fundamental law of the local self-government has been dealt with several times earlier in Stortingen and has been voted down. During the previous ageing period, resistance to basic law was observed, among other things. justified by the fact that the consequences were not well established. However, basic legislation has been addressed in several public investigations. The Municipal Law Committee in 1990 concluded that local autonomy should be enshrined in the Constitution. The majority of the electoral committee did the same. The local democracy commission was also in favour of basic law, and the matter has also been investigated by Professor Eivind Smith. The county council of the Municipal Councils has decided to support a foundational law. This is obviously not enough for the Workers' Party and the Right, who propose to appoint a selection to investigate the consequences. It is to hope that at least this will lead to that on the next crossroads there may be a constitutional majority for the matter. Today, the Christian People's Party believes it is important to strengthen local democracy and local self-government. It's about showing willingness to let the decisions that can be taken locally, also be taken locally, i.e. that the decisions are taken as closely as possible to the people concerned by the decisions. For the Christian People's Party, it is therefore natural that local self-government also gets its anchor in the Constitution. Earlier this year we decided to legislate parliamentarianism. A fundamental law of local self-government should not be less natural. It would confirm the important role of local government in our democracy, historically, today and in the future. It is claimed that the local democracy in Norway has worked well even without a foundation law. I agree. However, a basic law will provide greater protection for local self-government and have an important symbolic value. In 1989 Norway ratified the Charter of Local Self-Government of the Council of Europe, including the is: ‘The principle of local self-government shall be recognised in national law and in the Constitution where this can be implemented.’ Other countries in Europe we can compare with, and which have a constitution, have basic laws on local self-government. The Charter of the Council of Europe also provides strong leadership for Norway. Today Stortinget has the opportunity to realize the charter also in our constitution. A fundamental law of local self-government does not in itself imply any change in the relationship between the state and the local government. The size could continue to provide provisions which bind local authorities and give citizens the rights to be implemented locally. State authorities will continue to be free to act in relation to municipalities, counties and regions and can provide governance signals based on overall national assessments. Twelve different proposals have been made for the adoption of basic legislation. The Christian People's Party has come to the conclusion that we will support Option 4. Although the extent of regional reform becomes geographical and substantive is not yet fully clear, we will include the regional concept in the Constitutional Text. The current municipalities are also regional levels of government. Otherwise we have applied to the least extensive provision, but which nevertheless provides the necessary principle of local self-government. With these words, I would recommend the assembly to vote in favour of Option 4, and I would like to address the proposal from the SV, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1007	The representative of Ola T. Loan has taken up the proposal to which he referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1012	The applicant’s rapporteur pointed out – insofar as it is also written in the majority observations in the vote – that this proposal, if adopted, would not in itself imply a new situation in the relationship between state and local government and that national authorities could provide provisions binding on local authorities. Then it was shown that this should have been sufficiently determined, and it was among other things. referred to the investigation by Eivind Smith for KS. But according to that investigation, Smith says that the option is a provision that creates rights or obligations to a greater or lesser extent and that can be legally enforced – that is to say, it has to have a content that restricts what the state can do. So the question is, in what areas do you think the municipalities should have real autonomy in the sense that the state cannot intervene and re-approve a municipal decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1021	I understand that the representative Hansen asks about the proposal that we recommend today will bind the state in special areas. This is not how we interpreted this proposal, and we have not included this in it either. It is primarily a proposal that has an important symbol value, in order to be able to confirm the very important role local democracy has had in history, and still has today. We know that there has been a lot of focus on local democracy. Now we're facing a local election, and I think it would be very interesting if we could now have a decision to stress the importance of this being constitutionally anchored. There has been a lot of focus on local democracy, and it has been criticised that local politicians have too little room for action. They are exposed to the leaders of the Storting by laws, rights laws, not least, and it does not follow money, resources, the laws, etc., which threatens their freedom of action. We can fix this right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1028	If you think this should be a symbolic decision that shouldn't change the relationship, it's hard to understand. I should like to explain how it can correct the lack of room for action felt by local politicians. Then I don't think that you always feel that you have too little money – you'll always feel that way – but that you have today, for example. have no choice whether to have a library or not in the municipality. That's what you have to do. The only area I know is that you have real local autonomy – there is a difference between it and local democracy – is in terms of the rest of the cultural field. I do not know any field for which the municipalities are responsible, where the state cannot, through the county on any basis, either legally or in the case of national policy guidelines, review and review. And then the question is, is it enough to have autonomy only in a part of the cultural area to have constitutional local self-government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1035	I assume that the representative Hansen and I agree that local democracy in Norway is a form of secondary state constitution, and that municipalities and county councils have to deal in every respect with laws adopted by the Stortinget. That's the way it's going to be in the future. It is not intended that this should create a new policy in the sense that new areas of local democracy should be given sovereignty. It will still be the way it is today. I think this will be a very important signal to the voters, but also to the politicians, that local democracy is being taken seriously. There is a lack in our constitution that local democracy is not crushed, and we have a chance to do that now. It's a shame we can't use it – it seems. But as I also said in my post, this is an attempt to protect about this precisely from any abuse by state authorities and overrun of local self-government, which I think would be very unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1042	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1045	Norway has strong local democracy, but it is not the same as local self-government. The 1837 Presidency Act states that it is up to the Presidency to assist the authority with information and concerns, and to give opinions to the authority. So the Presidency was a tool for the authority, and so it still is. Our local democracy is well anchored in the municipal law and in what we call parliamentary custom. Locally elected levels of population shall be respected for the priorities it pursues within the area of action it has, even if the political colour is different from that at national level. Nevertheless, at the same time as several tasks have been transferred to the municipal level, the space for action on how to solve these tasks has continued to be narrowed. Rights laws, standard requirements and national policy guidelines contribute to such narrowing. In addition, the designation of grants continues to be used in areas where government and enlargement consider that there is a need for additional efforts to achieve the political objectives on which it has always been elected by the government, whether in hospital or in full child care. If the parties that currently support a fundamental law on local self-government are serious, they should start at a different end, namely by reducing the detailed management of how municipalities are to handle the tasks they are assigned to them. There is one important issue that is not at all affected in the vote: what is the consequence of this Constitutional proposal? For example, let's do this. allow local self-government to include whether it is a public library or not in a municipality? Today the municipality does not have this choice. On a case-by-case basis, the municipalities must deal with the county or with regulations and circulars which originate from the decisions of the central authorities and from national political leaders. In the case of lots seeking such a foundation law, some of these have shown a high degree of restraint in proposing new restrictions in the action rooms of the municipalities if they are municipalities that do not act in line with the programmes of these parties. It would be interesting if some representatives of these parties could answer such a question. Our local democracy has many qualities it is important to take care of and develop. That is why we should spare it from purely symbolic proposals. There are plenty of paragraphs in the Constitution that don't match reality. We don't have to input another one. The authority of the Constitution must not be impaired, or used as a symbol, as stated by the case-rapporteur. Those who really believe that the further development of our local democracy is in greater real autonomy should start at a different end, namely by defining the areas of action that are thought to be of such a local nature that the municipalities should have real autonomy, and, when it is done, by assessing whether they are willing to remove what is currently there from national political leaders in some form or other. That would be an interesting approach, but I think it would also be a little bit painful for many. Even the cultural area has now got its own law. Until now, only the People's Library was regulated. A principle of autonomy and freedom from legislative power makes little sense if local authorities have nothing to rule over. Therefore, it is important to ask: To what extent does the Constitution determine the tasks and responsibilities of municipalities or municipalities? The economic freedom of the municipalities is central to municipal autonomy. If the autonomy is to have real content, there must be consistency between the economic framework of municipalities and the level of activity required by the Constitution. The draft Constitution does not mention the circumstances surrounding the economic framework of the municipality and freedom at all. Furthermore, the Constitutional Bill does not restrict the ability of the State to define municipal boundaries. The proposal implies that Storting's governance will continue to be high. The proposal will primarily involve basic legislation, not so much constitutional protection. Municipal self-government in Norway has such a strong constitutional position that there has been no need for specific basic legislation. Therefore, the Workers' Party is in favour of the Government appointing a wide-ranging selection to determine the consequences for municipalities of the possible constitutionalisation of local self-government for other legislation. Such an investigation will also clarify what Norway will in practice impose on the obligations of the Council of Europe's Charter of Local Self-Government. This is a good proposal, which I ask the representatives to support. With this I address the proposals of the Labour Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1071	The representative Ivar Skulstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1075	Let me take up proposal 3, from the Progress Party, that option 9 – among the twelve – is acceptable. The representative Skulstad spoke of the ‘proposal’ as if it were one. I would like to remind you that it consists of twelve different alternatives, with significant differences between them. We have reached Option 9 as a proposal we will support. We also announced during committee treatment that we could agree on a solution of 12, if other parties, which basically went in to get the constitution of local self-government, could also do so, but it was not possible to achieve it. We will then vote in favour of option 9. First to the principal. It is quite correct, as Ivar Skulstad and others have said, that this is primarily a matter of symbolism. But the fact that it's a symbol thing doesn't mean you just have to sweep it away, and that it doesn't matter. Had it been so that all the paragraphs of the Constitution, including those that have been adopted over the past 20-30 years, had all had a real legal consequence, I could agree that introducing a symbol paragraph would be unfortunate if it changed the existing character of the Constitution as a legal document. That's not the actual ratio. A number of the changes that both the Right and the Workers' Party have voted in favour of, and that we have also voted for, although we really did not want to do so, are symbolic. I don't think you should germinate with symbols in a society. We may have many different views on other political bodies, elected bodies, and our party groups around, but in this case we have actually chosen to put some emphasis on what local government representatives and local politicians think. It is, as far as I know, a unanimous county council in the Communes' Central Association, where there are a lot of local government representatives, who would like to see a foundational statute for local self-government. And that is how, as it emerged from the change of line to the case rapporteur – and Svein Roald Hansen is right – there are really no legal obstacles to the Storting being able to take care of things in all municipalities through legislative decisions. When those who are representatives of local government, it would seem important to have a symbol that was enshrined in the Constitution, why should we deny it? The approach we've come up with is that when there are thousands of local government representatives who are doing a real job, who are spending time and energy on participation in local government and often feel neglected, it would have been important for them to get the symbol value of municipal autonomy into the Constitution. When we already have many other symbol paragraphs, we've come to realize that we should comply with such a wish. I'm a little surprised that parties that have been involved in introducing symbol paragraphs into the Constitution, are now jumping off and want further investigation. The second reason, apart from this principle where we choose to come from local government representatives, local politicians and want from a unanimous county council in the Municipal Councils' Central Association, is that option 9 also mentions referendums. It is stated in the second paragraph of option 9: «The Board of Directors shall be re-exercise bodies designated by direct and free elections. The law may give the municipalities access to decide that certain questions shall be settled by voting among the voters in the municipality." It is well known that the Progress Party wants to have both an advisory and decisive binding referendum into the Constitution. Under option 9, at least the words ‘municipal self-government’ will enter the Constitution. For us, it would be a first step, and it would be important that the words ‘consulted by the vote of the right to vote’ come in. That's the second reason when we support this. I respect, of course, the Labour Party and the Right who have the approach of turning it to the reverse burden of proof, that is, that there should be a real, concrete legal need for a new provision in the Constitution, while we have chosen the approach that, when it has no direct consequences, it is a great wish among thousands of local government representatives, we will comply with that wish by voting in favour of proposal No. 3, which I have mentioned, to agree with option 9 of the proposals presented for the constitutionalisation of local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1095	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1098	The question of basic law on local self-government is also a recurring issue in this room. Three times in the last ten years, the question has been dealt with, and three times, the Storting has rejected the constitution. The same should happen today. I recommend that the Right-wing Representatives vote in favour of the vote, which rejects all proposals. In short: Constitutional proposals that do not have any consequences, we do not see any need for them. Using the Basic Law as an arena for political signaling, I also think I'm taking the Basic Law too little seriously. On the other hand, we are voting with the Labour Party for a proposal that has been taken up on a request to the Government for the appointment of a wide-ranging selection. It is possible that an investigation could provide a basis for consequential changes. Time will show it. When we vote against it, it's not because the Right is opponents of local self-government, rather the opposite. We strongly believe in decentralisation, local participation and influence, and significantly more than some of the parties that today support the constitutionalisation of local self-government. What does the fundamental law of local self-government actually mean, as expressed in this proposal? Both the proposers and the majority of the Committee explicitly say that this proposal should have no effect on the relationship between the State and local administration. In other words, this is symbol politics, and in my opinion, it is a poor basis for constitutional changes. Is today's autonomy, which the proposers and the majority of the committee want to establish, really enough? The question is, of course, because the State collects taxes and redistributes the income of the municipalities, which are again limited by national law. The whole of national policies call for this, and the role of the Grand Duchy legitimising it. So if the aim is to influence the relationship between the state and local government to an appreciable extent, this proposal will have no significance. The argument for fundamental legislation refers to the European Council Convention of 15 October 1985 on Local Self-Government and its ratification by Norway. I would like to stress that local democracy is firmly anchored in Norwegian national legislation, and that both the wording and the intention of the Council of Europe Convention are therefore considered to be fulfilled. Among other things, given the different types of constitutions existing in countries that have ratified the Convention, this seems clear. It's probably countries that don't even have constitutions that have ratified the convention. So the argument that the Convention requires a constitutional supplement is therefore an argument that is unsustainable. This perception is shared among others. by the Municipal Law Committee, which considered that ‘it is difficult to say that it is directly imposed by a constitution of local self-government in Norway’ in the light of the Convention. As I said, right-wing is a supporter of local democracy and the principle of subsidisation. Municipalities are very important service providers and arenas for participation and influence for the individual citizen, and their position is strong in Norway. However, in order to consider supporting a proposal for a fundamental law, it must be a proposal with content, a proposal where the political and legal consequences of a constitution have an impact on the relationship between the state and local government. These are issues that need to be further investigated and justified, and therefore we support the proposal for a wide-ranging selection that can address these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1115	Today, together with other things, we are dealing with a very important matter. It is said that it is a symbolic matter, but nevertheless I would say it is important for the further development of local democracy. The previous representative said that we should not adopt this proposal because it is symbolic policy. A representative in the past has clearly pointed out that this will not be the only symbol paragraph we have in the Constitution. I think it is a bit striking that someone uses that argument in this case. What's this really about? That's the right to rule, to have real decision-making rights. It must be a paradox that when, in elections, in a representative democracy, we choose local politicians, state politicians and politicians to the state level, to the Grand Council, only the last have full confidence – only the last. The others have limited confidence, because they have to be controlled by policymakers. I would ask the representatives who are sceptical about this to travel around the country and talk to the local politicians. Then they'll get a clear idea that there are people sitting there who perceive it so that there are A and B politicians. It was said during the great struggle for parliamentaryism that all power should be brought together in this Chamber. Yes, but it was politically conditional at the time. It is bad in today's society with well-trained people from the top to the bottom that we are going to operate with two kinds of politicians. Those who are closest to the individual, who make up the largest welfare producer, and who try to solve the problems that individuals have at the local level, should also have our confidence. It is a paradox to experience that the Council of Europe made a charter on 15 October 1985. On 26 May 1989, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg adopted the same decision. 18 years later, we are not able to make a decision on a constitution for local democracy! In 1932 the Stortinget unanimously decided that this should be investigated. It's taken 75 years. We have had a number of investigations, as pointed out by the rapporteur. Do we need further investigation? My answer is no. We need a decision, and we need to go in and look at the realities after that decision is made. The time has come to reach a decision. Yes, the time is actually overdue to make a positive decision. I think that in the local election campaign we're going to go into now, there's going to be a real pat on the shoulders of those who have to exercise – together with us in this room – the policy that's best for the inhabitants, that we show generosity and treat them as equivalent partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1130	I have to say I got a little thoughtful of the debate on the fear of bringing important symbols into the Constitution. What do you think? Is that a kind of punishment framework you think about? The proposers have put forward twelve proposals, from my memory, in ways of formulating them so that they will be as binding as possible for us here on the Stortinget. I do not understand the fear of introducing one of the foundations of our democracy, namely local democracy, into the Constitution – in fact, giving it greater weight and constitutionality a foundation on which our democracy is built. Nor do I understand the fear that it will appear as an important symbol. What is it that you want to get out of a Commission that will consider other measures, when there are actually a lot of formulations on the board of the Committee? I want to draw up two important principles that are not included in the debate. The left, of course, supports a basic law. We've had that in our program as long as I can remember. It was taken up by the Labour Party representative that you never show any will or ability here on the Storting to delegate power. To that I would say that there is a lot of will shown many times, but the whole thing has not always had the ability. The government that has made the most of an attempt to delegate power is the Bondevik II government, even if you didn't get a majority in this room to delegate a lot of decisions down the system. Maybe that's why we should have a foundation law for the local government, so that it actually becomes a constitution on which we politicians are based. Local democracy means that even here in this room we have to endure inequalities. We have to tolerate inequalities because local elected representatives choose different priorities. So this should probably be based on the Constitution so that it is expressed by the weight that it really should be expressed. Another issue that I think is important in this matter, since we are now approaching a local election, is that someone is trying to make local elections a type of referendum for and against a government. In fact, a local election is a choice where citizens of their societies have to choose which way to go, and who should have the local trust. The fact that you have a party secretary at Youngstorget who is trying to turn local elections into a referendum for and against the Government, I think I'm talking that this should be grounded. There should be a large majority in this Chamber who say that our local democracy is actually something quite different from what is being said by the party secretary. I think there are a lot of currents in our society. Both the media's influence on the debate here in the house, this house's inability to accept differences in local democracy and the attempts of some parties to turn local democracy into referendums for and against governments are all good arguments that this principle – one might say this symbol – should actually be enshrined in the constitution. That is an important basis for our entire democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1143	What is meant by the concept of ‘self-government’, which issues are primarily of a local nature and where the boundaries go, will be crucial for the future constitutionalisation of local self-government. A real autonomy must mean full ownership of the entire income side of the municipalities. I don't think there are so many people who have thought well through. Real self-government must contain all of these elements, and when you see how local authorities' income opportunities are, it can be a development of Difference Norway. This is also the case – and I think it has to be repeated and repeated – that the municipalities carry out tasks on behalf of the state, not on behalf of themselves. They carry out tasks on behalf of the state through the billions of dollars that the Stortinge transfers to the municipalities, and they also designate the vast majority of them, so that the local elected and the local elected members provide it and the service to their inhabitants – that is, just an order from Stortinget. Real self-government will also mean that we have to keep all the earmarks away. Basic legislation on local self-government must also be used for something, not just as a symbol policy. If we want a system where the municipalities that carry out tasks on behalf of the state, for example: be able to bring an action against the State? There may be a consequence of constitutionalising local self-government. I think it's a much more correct way to go to investigate both the concept of self-government and what matters are only local in nature. The Workers' Party's and Right's proposals order this: to determine the implications for municipalities of the fundamental law-making of local self-government for all other legislation. Therefore, having these consequences on the table before any foundation law must be in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1156	The proposal to legislate local selfgovernment has been dealt with and rejected a number of times in 1988, 1999 and the last in 2003. Even today, there are high odds that local self-government is grounded. So my main point is now to look forward. I'll do that right away. But first a little bit about the basis for us having this debate at all. As is well known, on 26 May 1989 the Charter of Local Self-Government of the Council of Europe of 15 October 1985 was ratified by a co-conspirator. Many think that this implies a duty of international law to legislate the local self-government, among the Municipal Law Committee, which gave its report in 1990. Later – in 2001 – the majority in the Vallova Selection have joined in the same way, as did the local democracy commission in its first distribution, which came in 2005. The game of international law is central to the whole way. But also this: A fundamental law of local self-government will undermine the equivalency between state and municipality and make it clear – not to say any more clearly – that local or municipal self-government is an important part of the value base of the Norwegian governance system. I agree with these assessments, and I am also one of those behind the proposal that we are dealing with today. One side is the international legal obligation of Norway to establish the principle of local self-government; another is the practical consequences of such a fundamental law for relations between the state and state and private municipalities. A very superior wording, as suggested today by the Center Party, SV and the Christian People's Party, will most likely kneel down the principle – without any monthly influence on the freedom of action for government and enlargement towards the municipal sector. Other options, however, can lead to both changes in promises in other fields and in the political system itself. It is important to look ahead as none of the alternatives to all solar panels is supported by two-thirds of the representatives here today. Therefore, I believe it is important that both a thorough explanation and an informed change of words be made about the legal consequences of different types of basic legislation for the local self-government. The most obvious thing is, of course, to look at the consequences of other legislation for municipalities, but also a debate on the role of municipalities in the future, a change of words about how the Norwegian political system should develop over time. The center part is occupied by this. So we've carefully considered the proposal that the Labour Party and the Right come up with, where they go in order for the Government to appoint a selection to look at just this. It is a proposal which, in itself, could have been unnecessary if we had adopted a decision today in line with option 4, but it is a proposal that will provide a different basis for an additional follow-up with a new draft constitution. So, the Labour Party and the Right's proposal on the distribution, I would like to ask the Central Party to support its representatives. There are several selections that have previously discussed and recommended basic laws for local self-government. A new selection - with a limited focus on this particular issue - will be able to build on very good prework. I hope, however, that this selection can work quickly, and I hope that the Government will be able to submit a report to Stortinget next spring. This will allow you to follow up with new basic laws that Stortinget can handle in the next period. It takes some time to change Foundation -- and so should it. A small but relevant anecdote entirely on the tap: As you know, the Storting has recently decided to lift the two-part division with nodelsting and laying. On 15 January 1932, the Stortinget, on the other hand, made a unanimous decision, entitled: ‘The Government is requested to examine the issue of law handling in the Storting, including the repeal of the Storing Departments and to present the result with any proposals to the Storting as soon as possible.’ [[Odeltinget og Lagtinget]] So it was in 1932. This was never followed up, even if the Bond Party at the time ruled alone. And it was supposed to go almost 75 years before the departments were laid down. Hopeful is better now, both with a proper settlement of the issue of local self-government and the fundamental law fixing of this principle during the next enlargement period.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1178	I believe that this debate has almost overstated the need for the proposal that is hopefully adopted, that there must be a review of what should be the natural, necessary consequences of a fundamental law. Indeed, there is a deficiency both in the proposal and in the reasoning in the vote that there is no discussion of what should be the legal substance of such a constitutional provision, neither of what should be included in the concept of ‘self-government’ nor of what should be included in the concept of ‘predominantly local character’. That debate has shown that both the rapporteur and Carl I. Hagen were quite clear that this was primarily a matter of symbolism. It shouldn't mean any change in the relationship between state and local level. So Hagen says you're not going to germinate with symbolic things. No, but most of the symbolic items should have a reasonable connection with the realities. It is possible that those who support the proposal believe, as Hagen stated, that the involvement – which has been for many years – from the KS and from local politicians in all parties to get this constitutional party has been there because they want the symbol on the wall. I don't think Carl I. Hagen is such a naive power politician that he believes it. That symbol would be taken down and fanned every time a state came and made a decision or the Stortinget took a decision that would reverse the local political space of action. It would be a provision that would be very actively used against this house. It is therefore necessary to consider the implications of this provision on the legislation on which we have laid down vis-à-vis the municipalities and which this house will adopt. For what has been the development of us? Well, while over several years we have transferred many tasks to the local level, both to municipalities and county councils – especially to municipalities – there has been a different development. The local room for action on how to solve these problems has been narrowed in. In fact, the main concerns for school and care for the elderly have now been removed, although the Progress Party, at the latest in yesterday's Questionnaire, called for the reintroduction of ear-marking in the field of care for the elderly, has been tightened up by legislation on rights, standard requirements, national policy guidelines and the use of ear-marking, for example. in the case of seniority in the last years. Now the right to kindergarten is also to be legalised. So we don't trust enough the local politicians whose autonomy you now want to enter into the Constitution. We also deprive them of the political space in this area. Yes, not only should the right to children's playground be written into the law, but a unanimous growth – if I remember correctly – has also determined how much the municipalities can charge for a nursery place. At least local self-government is not an example of this. I am now not arguing against neither the legalization of kindergarten space nor the maximum price, but it is an example of how far away we are from the concept of local self-government, in the way we behave towards the municipalities. So as far as I have an overview of it, as I said in my reply to the rapporteur, only in the field of culture – with the exception of public libraries – that there is local autonomy in the real meaning of the word. That is, there are no law-enforcement agencies or other leaders that allow the county council to intervene. Do those who want this Constitution mean that self-government in the majority of the cultural field is sufficient to deduce a constitutional attachment to self-government in matters that are primarily of local nature? Is that enough? We can't go so far as to say that we are going to legislate local self-government, so there should be no leadership in terms of standard requirements or national policy guidelines etc., even in cases of such a nature that it would have been natural. At least I won't go that far. But I think the area on the other end of the scale is small, in addition to one more area, which is argued by the KS, namely that the municipalities can do more than they have to, only they don't trample on the bed of others. I believe that the requirement to legislate locally must be greater. Therefore, I would like to challenge the others, those who want to legislate on this, whether they can provide two or three examples in other areas, other things that they think are local in nature, and that the municipalities will have to decide for themselves. From the one speaker of the Party of the Centre and from the speeches of the Left, it was argued that the Constitution should be followed. On the part of Samuelsen's representative, it was argued that we must start treating the municipalities as equivalent partners. In that I interpret the fact that there is a reality in a constitutional fast. I want to do one example. The representative Skulstad used the example of a folk library, which I have also used in my reply, but at my discretion is e.g. the question of the short or long distance between the cabins on the edge of the beach, a matter of local character. If it is built close in the neighbouring municipality, it doesn't matter to me in my municipality. Then the question is: will e.g. SV, who wants to support this, repeal the national policy guidelines that restrict land use in the coastal zone? The interest in how the local democratic level carries out its tasks is quite great here in the Chamber. This is particularly reflected in the weekly Question Time. And the demand for intervention from the state councils is quite loose. In the February 21st session this year, the representative Harald T. Nesvik of the Progress Party took up a report with the Minister of Health showing that many elderly people in nursing homes are undernourished. The representative said, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘I hope you do not just hope, believe and expect that the country’s local politicians will grasp it. I also expect the Council of State to take some action." This local level, which the Progress Party now wants to get constitutional self-government, is therefore not more confident than that the Council of State must intervene if you are to take such a serious report and do something to make the elderly in the nursing homes eat too little. With such little faith in local democracy, I think it would be more natural with a proposal to repeal the Presidency laws than to legislate local self-government. And when you look at which parties want such a basic law, I don't think I'm going to offend anyone when I say that it's not these parties that are most reluctant to propose new restraints in the local authorities' operating room if there are any municipalities that don't act exactly in line with what you think is politically correct. If we want to further develop our local democracy – and I think there is an agreement that is important in this room – with greater real local autonomy, we should start at the other end. We have to start by showing less restraint in the detailed management of the local level, and I think that must start in all political parties and at all political parties' national meetings. For, with the exception of the Progress Party, which will leave to a kind of quasi-market to solve most of the tasks that municipalities are set to do, there are no parties that stand for a policy in which one is prepared to indicate the possibilities of giving political leadership to some of the tasks for which the municipalities are responsible. Then I think it's important not just to enter a symbol in the Constitution, but something that might get a reality. Local democracy has many qualities that it is important to take care of and develop. That is why we have to spare it a symbolic foundation law. If I had thought that such a fundamental law had had the effect of having a greater restraint in the desire to govern the country's municipalities and county councils or regions in the house, I would have thought that the political parties would have been more restrained by program formulations that in reality imply a restriction on the local space of action, yes, I would have supported it. But I'll start at the other end, because I think it's right to build it up from below.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1215	The representative Samuelsen asked the question, do we need further investigation? It was obviously meant to be a rhetorical question, because it was in the cards that the representative thought the answer should be self-evident, and that the answer was no. At my discretion, the entire course of this debate, and not least the intervention of the representative Samuelsen, shows that the answer is yes. We very much need further investigation. For even if we show great goodwill to the proposals that have been put forward, no one could seriously claim that they are outstanding in their clarity. It should be an ideal in terms of changes to the Constitution — whether they are intended to be symbolic or substantive — that they are at least reasonably clear and that there is no serious doubt as to the interpretation of the proposals. In reality, the intervention of the representative Samuelsen from the beginning to the end was a line of reasoning for the opposite interpretation of the Constitutional Law proposed by SV, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party, in relation to the interpretation given by Mr Lånke from the same proposal. Loans were committed to stress that this would not result in immediate changes either of legal provisions or of political reality, while the representative Samuelsen argued for a dramatic and radical understanding of the same proposal, which if one were to take the floor would mean equality between municipal government representatives and depositors under the category ‘elected’, which would in turn mean that the privilege of the Storting as the sole legislator in that country would be abolished in reality. I hope for the longest time that it wasn't meant to be, but that was the only way you could hear it, if the argument was serious. There are some other weaknesses that, at my discretion, support that the answer to the question of whether we need further investigation is a clear and clear yes. Reference is made on the part of the proposers to the constitutionalisation of parliamentaryism. But it's a very bad parallel. For the provision adopted by the Stortinget on parliamentaryism, a very precise – almost technical – description of what parliamentaryism is all about, while what is proposed here is a description which is vague and which really does not provide any interpretation guidance at all. For over-target purposes, option 4 requires the advance of a regional reform that no one per. today may predict its contents. It is at least a new practice to adopt constitutional changes in advance in order to take account of policy decisions that have not yet been taken in this Chamber. In my opinion, the whole course of this debate points to the fact that if, at a later stage, there is a basis for constitutionalising local self-government, there should be a serious assessment of all aspects of it, and, above all, a serious assessment of the way in which it would restrict the Authority of the Storting as legislator. The Constitution is very logically based on the third division of state power: the executive state power, the legislative and granting state power and the judicial state power. It should already, at my discretion, be said to be more cautious if one is serious about the fundamental law of local self-government, and took the time to really consider where in the Constitutional structure this belongs. Probably the answer to that is that it has to do with the understanding of the interaction between the Storting as a legislator and the government that is based on the majority of the population, and the local government, and possibly an intermediate level, if we are going to have it in the future. But then a Constitutional Paragraph must be designed in such a way that it does not leave any doubt as to where the limits of Storting's legislative authority go.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1228	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3218]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1244	There is an overall committee that is in favour of rejecting the Gunnar Halvorsen proposal for the amendment of the Constitution § 59, which concerns the allocation of district mandates. The proposal put forward would mean that it would require at least 4 pst. by votes cast on a national basis in order to obtain a district mandate that a list has received by participation in perhaps only one county, based on perhaps only collected signatures to deliver the list. In this case, a representative who obtains sufficient numbers of votes in a state to obtain a mandate would not have the right to sit in the Grand Duchy on behalf of his county because the list or the party on which he or she voted in that state did not receive sufficient support in the country, or because the party may not list in many counties. The Committee stands by the fact that we think this would be unreasonable, and that it should still be possible to be elected to the Grand Duchy from a state without representing a party or list that must have 4 pst on a national basis. The barrier limit we have concerns balancing mandates and not county mandates. It is therefore an overall committee which considers such a proposed provision unreasonable and recommends that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1253	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3219]] The President will refer to the decision taken by the Stortinget at the opening of today's meeting, that a voter after the case no. 1 to 5 has been completed. It will therefore now be called to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1268	The Stortinget is then ready for voting in case No. 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1433	The Workers' Party and the Advance Party are behind the decision of the Control and Constitution Committee. It's going to be a lot of noise on the roll of names. The voters will reply yes. The votes against the configuration answer no. The President will ask for the representatives to respond loudly and clearly for the purposes of registration, and there should be peace in the Chamber. This is particularly important in this vote, as there is a relatively narrow margin for what may result. The census showed that 87 representatives answered yes, 56 representatives replied no. 26 representatives had expired.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1444	Accordingly, the draft decision of the opinion has not received the necessary constitutional majority and has therefore been rejected. The 87 representatives who voted in favour of the proposal were: Karin S. Woldseth, Kenneth Svendsen, Tor-Arne Stroem, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Torny Pedersen, Anna Ljunggren, Berit Brørby, Thore A. Nistad, Tore Hagebakken, Espen Johnsen, Marit Nybakk, Carl I. Hagen, Jan Bøhler, Siv Jensen, Karin Yrvin, Saera Khan, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Truls Wickholm, Øyvind Vaksdal, Tore Nordtun, Solveig Horne, Eirin Kristin Sund, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Torfinn Opheim, Reidar Sandal, Ingrid Heggø, Sigvald Upbøen Hansen, Båd Hoksrud, Gunn Olsen, Terje Aasland, Kårin Förd, Kårdstern Sundstern, Kristøndsvinds-Oland, Gvarnjöndsberg, Gornester, Gvarn Haugen, Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen, Per Ove Wideth, Steinar Gullvåg, Anders Anundsen, Silvia K. Kosmo, Signe Øye, Ulf Leirstein, Svein Roald Hansen, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Irene Johansen, Vigdis Giltun, Freddy de Ruiter, Torbjørn Andersen, Inger Løite, Rolf Terje Klungland, Åse M. Schmidt, Anniken Huitfeldt, Morten Höglund, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Gunvor Eldegard, Marianne Aasen Agdestein, Ib Thomsen, Ulf Erik Knudsen, Sigrun Eng, Jørund Rytman, Torgeir Micaelsen, Ann-Kristin Engstad, Alf E. Jakobsen, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Anette Trette Trettebergstststststuen, Eirin Falde, Perar Knudsen, Gier Thomas Gjer, Irårårårårårårår, Ir Gär Gär Gär Gär Gär Gär Gär Gorten, Irår, Irådvol, Iskolavolavolavolavolav, Ir, Irårår, Irårårårårårårårårårår Arårår, Ir Arårårår Ar Arårås, Ir Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Arår Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Arås, Irårårås, Irås, Irås, Irås, Irårårårårås, Irårår Ar Ar Arårårår Ar Ar Ar Arå Ar Arås,h Ir Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Ar Aråssen Ar The 56 representatives who voted against the proposal were: Ågot Valle, Lars Sponheim, Rune J. Gjänd Henrit, Gjänd, Gjänd, Gjänd, Gjänd, Gjänd, Gjänd, Gjänd, Gjänd, Gjänd, Gjänd, Gjørn Arild Hareide, May-Helen Mulvær Grimstad, Jenny Klinge, Gunn Berit Gjänd, Bjørn Jacobsen, Åsa Elvik, Alf Ivar Samuelsen, Ivar Kristiansensen, Jan Sahl, Inger S. Enger, Per-Kristian Fosss, Heikki Holmåsss, Odd Eind Einar Djändjänd, Gjänd, Gjand, Gund Kassersheim, Heiðild Gåd, Erjänd. The following 26 representatives were due: Petter Løvik, Hill-Marta Solberg, Torstein Rudihagen, Olemic Thommessen, Britt Hildeng, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Bjørg Tørresdal, Åge Starheim, Børge Brende, Eva Kristin Hansen, Ola Borten Moe, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, Martin Engeset, Åse Gundhild Woie Duesund, Henning Skumsvoll, Sverre Myrli, Vidar Bjørnstad, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Dagfinn Sundsbø, Thorbjørn Jagland, Lise Christoffersen, Vera Lysklättttt, Karin Andersen, Erna Solberg, Per Rune Henriksen, Øyvind Halleraker.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1464	During the debate Per Kristian Foss has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:10 draft constitution of Inge Wohnning, Jan Tore Sanner, Martin Engeset and André Dahl on amendments to the Basic Law § 54, § 68, § 71 and 112 [[2003-2004]] [[Resolution]] The President proposes that alternative voting be made between this proposal and the Committee's position, and that it be voted in the usual way, i.e. in the case of voting facilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1490	During the debate, Heikki Holmås put forward a proposal on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:3 [[voting rights aged 16 years by rollover]] The left has announced during the debate that they will vote in favour of the proposal. The President proposes that there should be an alternative vote between the proposal of the Socialist Left Party and the vote of the Committee, and that it should be voted in the usual way, i.e. in the case of voting facilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1518	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ivar Skulstad on behalf of the Labour Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Ola T. Lånke on behalf of the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Central Party proposal No. 3, from Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party That will be a reason for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1533	The SV Group shall vote in favour of proposal No. 1, if our proposal falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1538	If our proposal were to fall, we would also vote in favour of the proposal for a settlement, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1543	It also applies to the Center Party's group.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1548	It also applies to the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1555	The same is true of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1562	It sounds like proposal No. Finally, the vote will be taken unanimously. The President assumes that we can vote in the usual way, at feeding facilities. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:9 [[2003-2004]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1581	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 12:9 [[2003-2004]] During the debate, the Left has announced that they will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1598	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote and the President shall recall that it relates to all the alternatives contained in Document No. 12:9 for 2003–2004, with the exception of the alternatives already under consideration. The President therefore considers that the vote may be taken unanimously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1615	There is still to be a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to appoint a wide-ranging selection to determine the consequences for municipalities of the possible constitutionalisation of local self-government for other legislation.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1636	The Committee's attitude seems to be unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1639	No, against one vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1646	I'm sorry! The president was a little fast. The proposal has received the support of Mr. Klungland. The result is that the Committee's position is in favour of 1 vote. We then go back to the agenda and deal with the remaining issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1662	It is now more than 50 years since the first small allocations were given in development aid. But before that, Nordics have long traditions to provide voluntary financial assistance to needy people in poor countries through various organisations and misions. Much of this was also development aid, by investing in education and better health. The UN objectives set at the turn of the millennium are a milestone in international development cooperation. World leaders have jointly committed themselves to working to achieve the eight objectives of promoting development and combating poverty. One of the objectives of the Declaration is to promote equality and to strengthen the position of women. In order to achieve this objective, the focus is on gender equality in education and the proportion of women in policy-making processes. The majority of the world's poorest are women and their children. Women and gender equality are also an integral part of the other Millennium Goals. In the present case, the National Audit Office has assessed the degree to which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and NORAD have integrated equality in aid to Uganda and Nicaragua. 20 different projects in the two countries have been reviewed, 13 in Nicaragua and seven in Uganda. The study looks at the extent to which actions are planned, implemented and finalised in accordance with strategies and planned gender equality objectives in Norwegian aid. The National Audit Office’s study identifies weaknesses in the integration of gender equality into the planning phase, lack of evidence of integration at all stages, and in several cases lack of reference in the final dossier. At the same time, it is positive to take into account the fact that, for all 13 measures that have been completed, results have been obtained in terms of women and gender equality. It appears from the document that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is aware that there is room for improvement. One of the most important aspects of the type of review carried out by the Riksrevision is the learning effect and follow-up of the report in that context. The Committee has noted that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would use the report as an input into the preparation of the new action plan on women and gender equality for development cooperation. The Committee has visited some of the projects which have been examined in Uganda during its work on this matter. Institutional developments at Makers University, microfinance measures through PRIDE and budget support. The Committee also met with the National Audit Office in Uganda. The visit gave a positive impression of the projects. It provided an insight into the importance of focusing on women’s development in order to develop the country as a whole. At the same time, the visit gave reason for some reflections that might be useful to carry on. For example, in order to achieve these objectives: not only the Norwegian authorities and the decisive efforts of each aid worker. General developments in the country of destination and the interest of this country’s authorities in the work on women’s and gender equality issues will also be of great importance. The authorities in each country must themselves want something, they themselves must be committed to women and gender equality. They must provide women with opportunities for education and development and for participation in the governing bodies. Good governance, democratic development, respect for human rights and the fight against corruption are also important in this context. The Committee visited, among others: a company that had received microcredit support through PRIDE, which had given livelihood to the female entrepreneur and several others. Positively yes, but at the same time there was a company in which they inhaled the flour dust without any protection, and where the raw materials were in heaps together with bicycle wheels and other things. From the Norwegian point of view, there was a company that would have problems with approval. However, it is probably an example of the fact that we cannot immediately impose Norwegian requirements on all establishments, whose poor countries will get their development. With us, this has also taken decades. At the same time, it is important that a development focus is on developing knowledge of the essential requirements for health, the working environment and the safety of the businesses created, in particular with a view to export-oriented, robust and sustainable economic development. Increased efforts on women in aid work are important in order to achieve the objectives of combating poverty. Education is essentially in this context. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that the Government no longer has education as one of the priority areas of assistance. We hope that this will be corrected, and that in the years to come the Government will increase the focus on education, which is a key to development and equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1697	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3223]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1713	Getting back to work as soon as possible is a high priority policy objective. This is why significant resources are used, in particular for actions targeting groups that are exposed to the labour market for various reasons, and therefore need additional measures from Aetat. There are long-term unemployed, immigrants and young people under 20 years of age. The National Audit Office’s study assesses whether the objectives adopted for these groups have been achieved and whether the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion and the Aetat have established appropriate and reliable management systems to achieve the results against these priority groups. Since it is the nature of the audit to highlight the negative deviations, I will start with the positive findings: the Youth Guarantee, the offer of school, work or action for all under 20 years is largely fulfilled. Many young people under the age of 20 who need help from Aetat have complex problems that may take some time before they can take action. But they get offers relatively quickly. So to the deviations from the targets. A large proportion of the unemployed and those still unemployed are not followed up as closely as foreseen, even though the vulnerable groups are given priority when taking measures. The joyous move is that there seems to be a slight improvement in getting the job completed and immigrants to work. The increase in the proportion of people who got a job after re-employment has occurred at the same time as the agency dealt with a significantly higher number of people with disabilities than before, suggesting that Aetat’s efforts to improve the work have delivered results — among others. through a national action plan for the organisation of vocational retraining. However, there are large-scale variations that cannot be explained by local variations in the labour market. The study also shows that a significant number of those who have been unemployed for more than six months, around 44 pst., did not receive a follow-up interview every three months, which is the objective. The survey also addresses the indicators used to measure the impact of efforts in this field. Aetate has developed to a large extent indicators which allow the quantity of service production to be measured, but to a lesser extent the capacity to capture the impact of the measures. The Committee noted that only 65 pst. have delivered final report cards for the period 2003-2005. Such a low response rate makes it difficult to assess the outcome of the effort and whether jobseekers have actually come to work. It's a little satisfying. However, the Committee has noted that the Ministry is committed to improving the basis for assessing the results of the measures and that independent checks on the quality of the procedure are carried out. Thus, the study has shown that the results in some areas are good, but also that there is documented doubt as to whether job-seekers with additional needs for follow-up will receive adequate assistance and follow-up. The Committee notes that the Council of State agrees that the results can be improved, and considers that the next time the National Audit Office looks into the field, the results of the measures now being implemented will also have been shown.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1743	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3223]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1759	The National Audit Office’s investigation into how the State of Labour and Welfare manages the car support system has revealed weaknesses in the assessment of the time taken by car allocation, differences in treatment time between the states and follow-up procedures when the car is in use. The objectives drawn up for the period of procedure relate to the time taken for the application to be lodged and to the time allowed for its acceptance. Three out of four applications are dealt with within the required four months for an application for a normal car and eight months for a specially designed van. But getting a yes is not the same as getting a car. The time it takes to get the car is not covered by the standard requirements that have been set up. The study shows that the delivery time may vary from three months to two years, depending on the adjustments that have to be made to the car. An overall committee believes that there is a need to look at the reasons why the delivery time can be so long and that measures to reduce this need to be considered. An instrument to achieve this will be to identify the time spent by the case in the various and often numerous instances it is to enter. So the other relationship that's being discovered is a huge variation in the treatment time between the states. Many counties have a good time span in relation to the norm requirement. This may indicate that the requirements should be more ambitious and that it would be useful to assess shorter norm times, as the Directorate-General for Labour and Welfare points out. The study reveals not only differences in treatment duration between the counties, but also wide variations in practice and outcomes. Different offices come to different conclusions as to whether the applicant should be in Group 1 or 2. There are also variations in the income test. This violates the principle of equal treatment of cases and an overall committee assumes that the ministry provides for procedures ensuring equal treatment of similar cases. The third aspect is that after the car has been used, questions are asked about the follow-up. The routines are that, after three months of use, the assistance centre shall assess the functioning of equipment and adaptation on the basis of assumptions. However, there was only one in six aid centres following this routine, which is a serious failure. The Committee has noted with satisfaction that the Ministry considers the report to be useful and that the findings will be used to correct the weaknesses identified. Finally, I would like to point out that it is important for the users of the scheme through the organisations of disabled people to be involved in a real participation process when assessing the organisation in this area. It can make a useful contribution to correcting the weaknesses of the National Audit Office's investigation and ensure an even better functioning car system, where the processing time from application to delivery can be reduced, where new users are being followed as intended, and where the important principle of non-discrimination is being followed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1785	There will be many reports from the National Audit Office. The content naturally varies enough with the currently selected theme. The main impression of Document No. 3:6 for 2006-2007 is that it is sad reading. The content is not less important for that reason. The report thus relates to the administration of the car-supplementation system by the State of Labour and Welfare. It is true that there is a cross-political objective that people with disabilities should be able to participate in society under the same conditions as in working life. If you're going to have any possibility of being close to achieving such a goal, I think we're all agreed that we're dependent on, as a minimum, the arrangements we have to contribute to that direction. This report gives reason to ask a lot of questions, as the case-speaker here mentioned. So there are 12,000 applications in 2005. 2 600 applications will be approved. Given that this numbering material is correct, what makes it so different? Is it e.g. so that there are very many applications that are not realistic in terms of getting a yes? Are the rules unclear? Is it the knowledge of those who guide these matters, it depends? Is it perhaps the time the case handlers have at their disposal, which is too short? Then there is also a wide variation in the length of proceedings between the counties. In addition, there are different conclusions regarding authorisation and refusal. An example is given here, where a vignette survey has been carried out that shows that there are four car offices that provide support for the car, and six car offices that refuse. In dealing with the same issues, one risk is that neither medical conditions nor transport needs are considered to be met by one office, while one office may assume that both are met. It is also such that the income tests vary. In the case of supply and follow-up, the waiting time varies from state to state. It's a very clear point of light, and that's what they said from the department. It is a warning that the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion will draw up an action plan to take action against the State of Labour and Welfare to follow up the National Audit Office’s recommendations. It is certainly good that the department follows up this matter in an offensive way. I assume that Storting will get feedback in its own way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1796	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Footing, see page 3223]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1812	At the request of the Justice Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that lines are not allowed after the individual posts, and that those who have to draw on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1819	The issue we are about to deal with now concerns an amending directive amending the four motor insurance directives, which are all part of the EEA Agreement. This must be seen in conjunction with the applicable EEA rules. The amendments aim to update and improve existing directives. However, the consequences for the public are that additional costs may arise from the extension of the obligation of information centres to provide information and the establishment of a central register. With regard to the consequences for the private sector, the Directives deal mainly with the relationship between the injured party and the insurance company. Although this does not impose particularly new burdens on insurance companies, new burdens will often bring similar benefits on the injured party, which in itself is positive. The Committee is in favour of this implementation, which will improve the situation of the injured party, but will nevertheless point out that this may in turn lead to increased insurance premiums for the individual customer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1832	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3223]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1851	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3223]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1870	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3223]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1888	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1906	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 322]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1914	The size shall then be allocated to voting in cases No. 6-13.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e1982	A vote will be taken on the proposals made by Mr Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right from the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 25 May 2007: ‘The decision asks the Government to transfer the choice/nomination of the county discretionary committees to the municipalities and to allocate the sample members on the basis of the population of the municipalities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e2001	A vote will be taken on the proposals made by Mr Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right from the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 25 May 2007: ‘The decision asks the Government in connection with the 2008 State Budget to consider increasing the remuneration of fellow judges from NOK 250 to NOK 500 per year. day.’» The Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e2022	There will be a vote on proposals by Mr Toril Ø. Hanssen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right sent over from the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 25 May 2007: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess border crossings in connection with the responsibility of the web-site editor and to lay down rules for this.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e2043	There will be a vote on proposals by Mr Toril Ø. Hanssen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right sent over from the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 25 May 2007: ‘The decision asks the Government to investigate and propose illegal attacks on web pages.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-31.ana.ud536e2102	Thus, the map for today is finished. Does anyone ask for the word in relation to Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure § 37 a? - The meeting is over.
