ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e28	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 1614]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e44	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Tore Nordtun, on behalf of the rapporteur, Asmund Kristoffersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e53	We are now dealing with a proposal for a representative on the right of objection in municipal planning and land-use matters. We clearly need an overall national land policy. I don't think there's any doubt about it. We must also have bodies to follow up national policies in order to ensure local follow-up. It's enough to look around what it's like in the beach zone in some areas or in the high mountain areas. Objection is not veto either, but there is an opportunity to think well about it. We also know that when matters first come to conciliation, they go to the Ministry of Environment if the parties do not agree – and often it is very important that they end up there. Therefore, we do not agree that the freedom of county council/county to promote opposition to municipal and planning proposals should be removed, as the proposers would like it to be. I refer to the letter dated 14 November 2007 which the Minister for the Environment wrote to the Committee, where he wrote, among other things. confirmed that one aims, in the near future, to promote an odelstungsproposition with proposals for new planning and building laws based on the proposals of the Plan Law Committee. The majority is of the opinion that it is appropriate to consider all possible changes to the overall context of the legislative proposal that will then come. One will also refer to further comments written by the Minister for the Environment in the letter attached to the vote. Where the municipality takes sufficient account of the national and regional interests in the planning work, the municipality itself will be able to self-approve the plans, as it is today. Most of the cases are resolved locally by agreement between the municipality and the opposition authorities. That's the situation. Only about 30-40 plan items are determined annually by the Ministry. There is a very small proportion of them in total. 200 municipal or local authority plans and 2000 to 3000 regulatory plans adopted by the municipalities each year. The figures show that the planning systems work quite well by the fact that most plans are now being adopted locally. In practice, it has been demonstrated that there is a need to provide for objections in order to ensure that national and important regional considerations are properly addressed in the overall work of the plan. There is a strong construction pressure in many places, including: along the coast and in mountain areas. Municipalities shall balance different interests and are responsible for the development in accordance with the leadership given from the overall level, inter alia. of the Storting through the processing of wholesale notifications. It is a solid majority in favour of the vote on this matter, namely that the proposed document, which has been presented here, is not acceptable. I have also shown where it is natural to deal with this matter, namely in connection with the Planning and Building Act when it is promoted by the Government of the Spring Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e68	The vast majority of municipalities, councillors, rapporteurs and local politicians around the whole country have probably been very frustrated more than once when the county has intervened with objections to the municipality's decisions and plans. A very large number of municipal councillors today see the county's use of objection as an untimely and completely unnecessary interference and eroding of local self-government. Therefore, in the view of the Progress Party, a thorough debate on the future role and function of the county council in the Norwegian administration system is timely. As a matter of priority, the Progress Party considers that the County Council has played its role in the same way as the County Council, and that both parts should be abolished and replaced by completely different authorities. An important element of reforming our future governance system should be to transfer more political decision-making authority from the state to local elected decision-making bodies, primarily the local government. Much of today's Norwegian political and public governance structure stems from the Constitution of 1814 and is based on centuries-old social conditions and low-level societal and political ideals. The Progress Party believes that we should now discuss the introduction of more modern governance models that today's and tomorrow's societies require. We have to abolish these hundreds of years-old public governance systems that we believe belong to the past. The Progress Party wants more of the power of society not only to come from above and below, from the state and be imposed on the municipality, but to come from below – and up to the municipalities themselves. Should there be any doubt as to the legality of municipal decisions, the Progress Party considers that legal control as well as the right to appeal of individuals can be far better exercised by a separate independent judicial body, such as the Court of Justice. an administrative court, which is located outside the jurisdiction of the State – this of course in order to increase legal certainty. It is clear from the preliminary work on the Law on Planning and Building in 1985 that, in the case of objections raised by the county council, there should always be a high level of caution when reviewing local policy judgement. The problem is that the caution is not so great anymore from the county. In the examination by the National Audit Board of the appeal proceedings at the county offices, a unanimous Supervisory and Constitutional Committee expressed its opinion. S. No 82 for 2001-2002, in respect of matters covered by the Law on Planning and Building: ‘ it appears from the investigation that there are considerable differences between the duties with regard to the outcome of the appeal proceedings. [[...]] There are also differences in the extent to which cases were brought to an end or reversed. The Committee finds this alarming and asks the Government to examine whether there are major differences in practice in similar cases between the various statesmen. The Committee finds it unfortunate that the legislation is applied differently in the municipalities or in the county offices.» The comments of the Control and Constitutional Committee indicate clear weaknesses in the management of the county office. Legal certainty is also a matter of urgency when the state treats similar cases differently. The Advance Party will increase municipal autonomy and, among other things, grant free taxation rights to municipalities. We'll give them the right to decide on their own land disposal in the beach zone, or cabin construction in the mountain. Also, in the case of predatory policies or the management of outland traffic, local politicians should be allowed to determine this for themselves without interference from the county council. The progress party will therefore deprive the county council, and also the county council, of today's right to raise objections on its own basis to municipalities in part of these cases to which I referred. Then it's time, so I'll just have to bring up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e95	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e98	Now we have probably had almost equivalent suggestions up to treatment sometimes before in this session. We on the Right still believe that we have done the same thing in the past, so I am addressing the proposal that we have made and that emerges from the vote. We do not go as far as the Advance Party does in this matter. But we are following very closely the arguments used by the Progress Party on this issue – also alongside taking into account all the declarations, including the Soria Moria Declaration and other statements that say a lot about how to strengthen municipal autonomy. That's why Right is promoting that proposal, and this time I want to quote it: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to restrict the county council/right of objection in municipal planning and land decisions.’ I believe that with the background of the many declarations both to strengthen local self-government and to the need for a review of the Planning and Building Act, such a proposal will be adapted to the time we are in. There is a need for the Stortinget to review the practice of the representative Andersen — the different practices implemented around the country. From the Right, we see that the need to have a sufficient opportunity to object can be justified by examples in the Beach Act, but there are probably more examples. There are many examples of unnecessary use of objection – which therefore works the other way – therefore there is a need for a review. We see that many cases of objections lead to lost time, increased costs and too many people sitting and moving and handling paper – to considerable irritation for those affected. We also ask questions about whether the law and the statutory law and the obligation to carry out the planning exercise are still equally relevant and adapted to the time we are in. On this basis, I take up the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e114	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e117	I won't keep any long posts. I just want to make it clear that the Center Party is a strong supporter of local self-government. In fact, we believe that those who are best placed to make decisions are those who will live with the decisions in the future. The fact that power is close to people is also the main reason why we're hot followers of a decentralised municipal structure. So the challenge, with such a decentralised democracy, is that the municipalities cannot have competence in absolutely every field. To that end, the professional community within some fields will become too small, and it would be bad social planning to allow municipalities to have a heavy overcapacity in all administrative areas. Not with good cooperation between municipalities, of which the Center Party is a member, can solve all the problems. This is why it has competence in some areas at regional level. Examples of this could be environmental and cultural memory protection. Responsibilities arise in e.g. the right of countermeasures in the spatial plans. The proposers express their actual intention in the comment text of the Progress Party, i.e. the abolition of the regional management level. The first argument being drilled into squares is that the regional institutions are old — yes, several hundred years. One might point out that despite the fact that the state is gradually beginning to reach an old age, the proposers do not go in to remove it – rather, on the contrary: the state should be strengthened. The courts, which have an inheritance that goes back over a thousand years, must also be strengthened. So one is not consistent in this argument. The counter-argument, age no hindrances, is actually good even when it applies to our management levels. In view of the strong desire to wind up the regional level, to have a large pool of municipalities and to build a strong state, the proposal is not so surprising – rather logical, in fact. But for us who are concerned that power should sit close to people, and who are working to delineate state overbureaucracies and centralization of power, government is not increasing the way to go – on the contrary, to increase the rule of peoples. Here you can see a key difference between the Centre Party and the Progress Party. Where the Central Party wants more popular government and decentralization of power, the Progress Party calls for government, judiciary and centralisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e128	I won't take much time, because, as the Right-Speaker said, similar proposals have been made on several occasions. There is a very broad majority in the Storting to reject the proposal that has been promoted. And perhaps most importantly, this spring, the Stortinget will be presented with a draft new planning and building law, which will give the Stortinget the opportunity to discuss these questions much more in principle, much wider and much more in its entirety. To the extent that Storting is interested in getting recommendations from me, it must be to take the debate thoroughly in that context. Having said that, I would nevertheless say that I believe there are very important fundamental reasons for maintaining a right of objection for the county councils and county councils, because even though – as Sande so well describes it – local self-government must be the starting point, regional, national and, in some cases, international interests must also be taken into account. That is where the right of objection comes in. These broader, wider societal interests, which cannot always be adequately safeguarded at the local level, must also enter into the process. That this would be such a huge problem, as described by the Progress Party, is indeed refuted by the speech of the figures. It is between 30 and 40 of those between 2 500 and 3 000 regulatory plans and municipal plans that are adopted each year that the right of objection is appealed against to the Ministry of the Environment. So that's a very small number of things out of a large number of things. In the vast majority of cases, this goes its way and is decided at local level. Where these contradictions are most evident, they are related to the area of the beach, to the humid, excessive mountain cabin construction and to areas where it could destroy the public, and to issues related to the wilderness areas. Especially in the view of the beach zone, there are quite big differences between the views of the Progress Party and – I think – the great majority of the Stortinget. Government parties and several opposition parties believe that we must now put the brakes on, so that the possibility of future generations using the beach zone in Norway is not destroyed once and for all. There's a very basic question here. A majority in a municipality shall, and should, at a given time have wide scope for decision-making. But they cannot and should not have enough leeway to make any kind of decisions that can destroy the beach zone for future generations. It's almost impossible to recover a damage like that. may occur if, for a short period, the majority wishes to take advantage of their local freedom to act in total negation of regional, national and international interests. I therefore warn against the proposals of the Progress Party. It has also been done by a large majority in the Grand Duchy. However, to the extent that one wants a much wider and wider debate on it, it will be a rich opportunity for it in the context of the Planning and Building Act, which will be presented during 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e139	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e142	Over the last 10 to 20 years, we have seen a falling interest in local policy participation. Recruiting people who want to participate in municipal policy has been increasingly difficult. It is also the case that two out of three municipal government politicians end after the first period. Why do they do that? Well, they find it pointless to sit in a local government, because they feel that they really don't have real power as municipal politicians. They feel totally overwhelmed by the central authorities. I have also registered that the SV's representative on several occasions speaks very warmly about local self-government and to strengthen local self-government. What's really so wrong with a lot of things? The local government and the municipal representatives are often the ones who know best where the shoe prints, so I don't understand that principle. Why should the local government not get a little more to say, among other things? in any of the cases that I referred to in my post from the pulpit? I think that would increase interest in participating in the local political arena. It is a very important matter, really.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e150	I fully agree with Andersen's representative that the starting point is that the locals know best. That's also why there's only a very small number of things you're interfering with local self-government. However, on the assumption that the local authorities know best, one cannot ignore the fact that some people can make very self-centered decisions that may harm others — for other municipalities in the vicinity of which the region and everyone has an interest and who have national interests. It also applies to people living in municipalities other than the municipality in question, and it may break the international obligations of Norway. We have to have that opening in order to be able to evaluate this in these given cases. Then I would also like to say that if Andersen's representative is concerned about the interest to sit in local government, I would recommend him to join the government's policy. We've given a great deal of leeway for local activity that didn't exist there in the last period. We have allocated more than NOK 6-7 billion to the municipalities, which give room to each local government to actually make political decisions – if you want to spend it on care for the elderly, school, sports facilities, cultural facilities, or whatever you want to use it for. That space of action did not exist when the Progress Party had an influence on politics during the Bondevik government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e157	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e162	Local self-government is under pressure, and one of the reasons for this is the government of the day. When you hear the representative Sande, you can understand why. The representative is the legal representative of the county council and the objections of the county council. The fact that the National Government is to be represented in this Chamber by overrule the people, regardless of the outcome of the 1994 EU elections, puts the whole of the Central Party's desire for increased local autonomy in a strange light. But the principle in this case is that if we really want something about local self-government, we have to look at the framework that exists. Then the economic space, as the Council of State points out, is very important. It is also strange that the Council of State has not noticed the names that have come from the KS, where one regrets that today’s free resources have not increased more than during the previous government. Yes, more money has come to the municipalities, but most of it has just taken place on the basis of increased tax revenues created, not distributed, of this hall. Let me then link a few comments to this matter. For the Right, it is extremely important to rebuild municipal autonomy. We see that the county council not only uses its objection, but also uses the threat of objection, and that is the threat that local trust leaders from all parties feel overwhelmed before the county council actually does this. Of the things that come to the department, although it's only about 1 pst. However, two thirds of the total plan items are determined for the benefit of the municipalities. I believe this must be given great attention in precisely the planning and building law that finally comes to Stortinget in the next year. If we really see that we want to increase municipal autonomy, we also have to take this into account. I see it as a major problem that my own part of the country, Southland, is subject to exactly the same state legislation as the interior of Oslofjord, Westland and North Norway. It is clear that this should be more clearly decoupled from both central and, in particular, state policy. And yet there's a paradox that we see that the county, on very different grounds, interferes with discretion in particular planning and land issues. There have been very few comments, both in this debate and in previous debates, that the county council as a non-elected body should have the right and the power to review selected bodies. It may even mean that unanimous local authorities get their decisions overrun by an official – and that is exactly what is happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e173	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1615]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e189	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e198	There is no doubt that protection can conflict and that there are usually contradictions between local and regional or national interests that create the conflicts. All those concerned with protection as an instrument for ensuring biodiversity have an interest in the dialogue of the protection processes with the communities affected, and solutions can be found to combine protection with local food development. Work on voluntary forest protection is a good example of a way of working to ensure direct cooperation between protection authorities and local interests. Everyone wants voluntary protection to be applied as far as possible, while at the same time there is no doubt that the protection of endangered species and other important environmental values requires the use of government-driven protection processes. Norway has a target of halting biodiversity loss by 2010. Now we're about to go into 2008, and I think everyone sees that it's a demanding goal. It's a goal that requires more protection. The proposers write about a crisis of trust between local communities and central authorities. I think it is positive that conflicts of interest and differing views on protection are expressed through the protection processes. It's a sign that the processes work. But it's clear that there'll always be the potential to do things better, for example. in the case of sectoral coordination. Then it is obvious that some municipalities and some parts of the country are making greater efforts than others to achieve the biodiversity objective. It is clear that these municipalities must be given good opportunities for new industrial development. The size shall in a short time review of the Planning and Building Act. We are going to have a new nature diversity law that will replace the nature protection law that we have today. I am concerned that there are opportunities for sustainable activity and new entrepreneurial development in the awareness of doing such a type of legislative work. The Minister for the Environment also writes in his letter of 23 November to the Stortinget that the Government is to assess instruments that are more effective in compensating municipalities that are actively contributing to the achievement of important national objectives. I think that makes sense. Of course, a prerequisite for protection to contribute to local value creation is that they are properly managed. In the Soria Moria Declaration, we say that we will present an action plan for the sustainable use and care of national parks and other protected areas. In working on such a plan, it has among other things. recorded a separate value creation programme for the protected areas. It's a video that the government has said they're working on. That's good. The proposers believe that national guidelines should be established for all agencies with protection authorities, which will then take into account the fact that some municipalities have a high level of binding requirements. There is reason to recall that the purpose of protection is to ensure important environmental values, ensuring the diversity of nature. Environmental values and biodiversity are disparate, and therefore the proportion of protection must also be disparate if protection is to be appropriate. Whether it is the case that some municipalities take such a heavy burden as to affect local economic development and local employment needs to be compensated, but it needs to be compensated for by other instruments. The government is working with such tools on a broad front – I have mentioned the Planning and Building Act, the travel strategy becomes important, and I have mentioned the Nature Diversity Act. On this basis, the majority consider that the proposal cannot be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e217	This case has in common with the previous case that it is a little about the big community up against often small communities around the country of Norway. Not rarely do places with significant business challenges exist before these protection processes start, also in common with the previous case. There are municipalities in Norway that have protected 40 pst. of its total area under the Nature Conservation Act. There are municipalities in Norway that, if you add and add to the different types of protection — for example: in the Naustdal in Sogn and Fjordane – has protected more than 100 pst. of its area. The fact that this poses business challenges can't be much doubt. This is justified by the majority's belief in the fact that passive land protection as an instrument is the only sacred instrument in terms of ensuring natural diversity. I think in this situation you should remember that you have actually had forestry in Norway for thousands of years. It's the forest that's ahead of us in terms of future protection processes now. The major protection processes carried out under the 1992 National Park Plan include areas which mainly represent high-mountain peakography and which lie in pig-grown strata at the Swedish border. However, the current protection concerns areas that are down against denser populated areas, where there are, in part, significant commercial activities related to the areas envisaged for protection. However, there has been a forest operation in Norway for at least a thousand years, and timber has been exported from Norway for the same period. This has not resulted in loss of species diversity. In fact, the truth is that there are a number of species that depend on both juvenile forests, periwinkles, pike fields, etc. There is also a fact that there is more dead forest in Norway now than ever before. I would also like to point out that voluntary protection has come a long way. But voluntary protection only helps forest owners – you don't get to produce paper on voluntarily protected forests either. So the Progress Party still believes that it is timely with a proper evaluation and a break in the ongoing protection processes. So there were several of them who made contributions to the previous debate, who talked about that there is very different enforcement of the legislation. In part, there are a lot of national parks in Norway, large areas in Norway where there is a great deal of divergence both in terms of whether there are regulations and how these regulations are enforced. This is clearly a problem for those who want to travel in relation to national parks. Then we also have that concept that has crept into the administration, about untouched and wild-faced nature in areas that are not protected, but on which the landowners are skeptical to use – and where the county uses as argument that this is pristine nature and wild-faced nature. So it's never given the whole thing its connection, and hopefully they'll never do that either. Finally, I would like to include the suggestions in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e236	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e239	When we took up our proposals – and in time promoted our Document No. Eight proposals, in which we are asking for a strategy for industrial development and jobs in municipalities with a high proportion of protection – it was because we actually thought far on the way that this would come in line with the Stortinget. But this proposal is being put to the vote today. When we take this up, it's based on multiple arguments and angles of view. Firstly, we would have liked to have been presented by the Government a strategy for what we can do for Utang-Norway, for Building-Norway and for Coast-Norway – the areas of the country that have a very high percentage of spatial protection and down to a slightly less percentage. What's common to these areas, almost identical, is that they have a decrease in the population. They are not given the same possibilities as other parts of the country. Some stamps have been placed in these geographical areas that make it possible to develop new businesses, the opportunity to get a job in the home, to develop there, to develop ideas, investment capital and labour, less here than in the so-called more central parts of the country. We have promoted this proposal with evidence in recent population development statistics. And last quarter's statistics have re-documented that the most central parts of the country – Oslo, Bærum, Stavanger, Trondheim and Bergen – are growing more during today's government than ever before. It's possible you can hit your chest and be very proud of it, but at the same time I find that the minus curve has become even larger in the areas that are exposed to the different variants of protection. It should be said that we should have had a majority in favour of our proposal today and that we do not adopt what is being adopted, namely that our proposal is 'not accepted'. There is no doubt that, regardless of the political point of view, when we look at the traffic restrictions we have in these areas, areas which, on the part of the big community, have had a refusal to take advantage of the possibilities and to earn income, that it has, for example, been. results in loss of power, reduced opportunities for outdoor activities, hunting and fishing, and restrictions in motorised traffic. We also see it on the sea side, where the protection of land in relation to salmon fjords and streams now puts a significant damper on the activity. I'm not saying that what's done is wrong, but we want from the Right a debate and suggestions from the Government on how the big community, who puts the protection stamp in these areas, can tighten up, take a review and see if there is any possibility of taking compensatory measures. We tried to put some compensatory measures in place, such as: National Park Centres, but we have seen that these have barely appeared, and they live with appropriations that barely enable them to keep the doors open to carry out the job they are assigned to. On this basis, I just have to say that I am somewhat disappointed with the reception and handling that this proposal has received. All the statistics, all the relocations, have required – and we expected – a different approach from that of the government parties to which this proposal has been met.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e254	During one of the press meetings at Bali last week, Børge Burnde asked a question that I really thought was quite good. It was: Why hasn't the red-green government protected anymore? When I start there, it's because it gets striking when you get to Stortinget and experience that the right-hand side here in all contexts – at least in all contexts that I experience – is just talking about protection as a problem, a difficulty and something you should have least of, instead of looking at protection as something big, nice, great, which is important that we do, that the protection of absolutely crucial natural areas in Norway is something that provides opportunities for business development, which gives opportunities for tourism, which actually helps to make Norway the beautiful country we live in, precisely because we guarantee animal species, plant species and much of what we want. Why is it always talking about protection as a problem, instead of talking about it in a completely different, positive way? That being said, of course, the Government fully agrees with what has been said in the debate, namely that voluntary protection is far too far to be preferred and should be the preferred method. It has been shown that we can go far with voluntary protection in many areas. The government is just in the final phase of completing agreements on voluntary protection of 12 different – relatively small – areas in Norway, which I hope we can complete during the very next few days. The open and voluntary protection process is continuing, and we might hope to be able to get up in hundreds of areas over the next few years. I also think that we in Norway can be better off turning protection to something positive – even for those who are critical of it. My impression is that too often you have hidden the protection instead of holding it forward. - Is this sign good enough? Is the area of protection somehow, which is an attraction, clearly marked on the map? Is it clearly marked on road signs? Does the local business do what they can to get everything out of it? I think we're too little good at this. I believe many other countries that have protection values, in a completely different way, hold it forward and have population development, profits and many other benefits of protection. Finally, we agree with the proposers that it is worth considering the use of local food funds in areas where protection can be a problem. However, we are doubtful that it is necessary to say so with national guidelines for this, and believe that it needs to be discussed more specifically on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e267	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e270	Let me first just make it clear that I do not consider Børge Brende to be a leading star in the case of Norwegian national protection policy, and so I am satisfied with the protective break that Erik Solheim has put in. The report of the National Audit Office this summer shows that protection alone as an instrument does not work. It is clear that active management of protected areas is also necessary. The Council of State, as I have interpreted it, has been ready to start work on identifying the ecological conditions in Norwegian protection areas associated with Norwegian protection policy. But what you haven't said so far is that you have to look at the sociological and economic consequences of protection. Will the State Council also include the sociological and economic aspects in a possible evaluation of Norwegian protection policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e277	Firstly, I have been the Minister for the Environment for two months and have not put in place any protection breaks, and we will have ample opportunity to return to future protection plans. Secondly, I think it is absolutely right to be able to give homage to Børge Brende in an area where, as the Council of State, he got a good deal of things that the rest of us would like to pass on. And third, when it comes to local protection, I see the need to correct disadvantages when they exist. But there is no doubt that in some cases there are conflicts around protection and that there are local difficulties with it. It can be remedied, e.g. in the form of an industrial fund or by other means. But I think there is also a need to turn a little bit of thinking around and look a little bit more at the great opportunities that protection offers to make money, to maintain local employment and to get more tourists – in short: to make protection attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e282	I think the Minister for the Environment had an incredibly lightweight attitude to the whole problem. The more protection I think in and of itself is not the problem. What's the problem is all of the supply constraints that also follow with the areas around. Børge Brende showed the way, he, with voluntary protection. It has also been shown that there are areas in lots of areas out there to protect. But it is when you don't solve the problem of substitution, when you don't solve the problem of use and the possibilities to create something out of it – at all – the situation you put society in – and also create a long period of uncertainty, that the conflicts really start to peak, because there is also no certainty about full compensation, as the situation is today. I had therefore believed that the Minister for the Environment had gone into exactly the crisis of confidence that is actually on the move to develop between District Norway and central parts of Norway, in a completely different way from what he in turn expressed in the article today. So my simple question is whether the Minister for the Environment does not see the conflicts that lie in this at all, because he did not give the impression of doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e290	Everyone sees conflicts related to protection. This is also the reason why voluntary protection is the preferred method, which will be used in the vast majority of cases. That's also why I mentioned that we are involved in such processes in a series of areas around the country in order to obtain voluntary protection. Then there will be some protective values that are so large, and how complex matters are, that voluntary protection is not enough. In these situations, I think we need to look at how a community can then be compensated for the disadvantages that protection has to offer, but also at the many positive opportunities that protection can provide in terms of more tourist income, more to local business and housing and jobs associated with protection. There are also many benefits to protection if you try to turn it to the positive. Finally, I just want to say: I don't think the Right Both should highlight what Børge Brende got into, which is a nice thing, and then try to play on all the dissatisfaction that it becomes around such protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e297	I think that the Council of State, which has now spent a very long time travelling to many exciting parts of the world, and has looked at many major challenges, will take some time to travel around Norway and meet some of the municipalities that are experiencing the great social strain of our current opinion that there are many important protection values in such a beautiful country as ours, and hear and take seriously how his external office and bureaucracy meet these municipalities every single time they want to do something of what he says they can do: use nature as a tourist magnet, do things that make them capable of creating new jobs. And then, after those trips, he might ask himself, does the exterior level feel like a co-player for these municipalities or as an opponent? I think the conclusion will be that he'll hear they're opponents. For this reason, national policy guidelines are needed on how to deal with these types of municipalities from the public at large, thus making a great deal of effort for the protection needs of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e302	First, I get a little tired of trying to make a kind of impression that I'm just traveling abroad. I would like to know which other wholesalers have been in more than 400 of the country's municipalities. As a party leader, I have traveled so much around Norway that I dare to make the claim that I know this country quite well. Then add it to it: I travel both in Norway and abroad. As for the other, which is more important: I am more than willing to listen to the local criticism that may be of the agencies under the Ministry of the Environment, or on which the Ministry of Environment relies in order to play the role we are going to play. The criticism that may come, we like to take – we like to listen to it – and see if we can correct and improve the course. There will always be difficulties and tensions between a bureaucratic device and local self-government. But the main point of view, that it has to be compensated for the disadvantages of protection had to be imposed on a municipality, but that we have to look at the many exciting opportunities that protection offers, I stand by.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e309	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e314	One of the things that's struck me often when I've been around and traveled in District Norway both before and at other times is how many active, glowing people we have who want to develop their community, who want to use the opportunities to create new jobs, to create attractive jobs, and who unfortunately often experience that they're running shadow boxing with the state's external agencies, especially that they're subject to restrictions of availability either directly caused by protection or derived from protection or caused by other social conditions. When I was a municipal minister, I once asked for an overview of all the restrictions on availability that were in the different municipalities in Norway. There is not, it was not possible to recover. So it's almost impossible for each municipality to know what that is. It will at least be a very big problem to see which bonding is. We have municipalities in this country that have 70-80 pst. of its area subject directly or indirectly to that type of availability restrictions. The right starting point is not that this is a problem, if we don't make it a problem, because Norway is a great country, and we have a lot of big natural resources that we're going to take care of. Not least, the careful use and maintenance of these natural resources has made them today more protective, because local use has been met with protective needs, not with protective desires. Nevertheless, I feel very clearly that there is an increasing crisis of confidence between national politicians – regardless of political colour – who want protection, and local politicians who fear protection. Why has it become like this? Yes, because it is felt that in compliance with protective provisions, they are sometimes drawn to the extreme limit. It is felt that the limitations of availability are such that it is almost impossible to do anything. If we travel to a municipality in my home country, Women's Center, it's basically not possible to do anything. There are quite thin strips between the fjord zone and the beach zone and where the protection areas begin on the mountain side. Of course, good solutions need to be found, but this is often seen as a struggle between local authorities and public agencies. Our attempt today was to clean this up by making sure that we had a strategy for it, that national policy guidelines were put in place so that the whole state could speak with one tongue and show how municipalities that were in this situation should behave, so that all those who want to develop their community in the pact with protection can actually do so. I fully agree with the Council of State that there is great potential and many opportunities, and you should not be afraid of protection. We're making many municipal politicians more afraid of protection because we don't have a comprehensive strategy. I think it's sad that the government won't go in for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e327	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1616]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e343	The size was last informed about the state’s revenue for the current year when the national budget for 2008 was presented on 5 October. In St. prp. No 28 for 2007-2008 on new age for 2007 we have received new information on the tax intake this year. It's essentially positive. The oil-corrected deficit is now set at NOK 2,8 billion, corresponding to the actual use of petroleum revenues. Government pension fund — Foreign exchange transfers an amount of the same size to cover the deficit. When the Storting adopted the budget for 2007, the oil-corrected deficit was set at 51,3 billion kroner higher than the current one. The reduction is largely due to increased tax revenue from the mainland economy of NOK 41.8 billion. An important part can be attributed to the economic situation. In addition, there have been changes due to an increase in interest income and income excluding the two most recent sources of income, including: increase the payment of dividends. The economic image is getting even lighter by reducing the cost by DKK 3.4 billion from the balanced budget to the newly aged budget. It's a pleasure to see that the cost of popularism is reduced by $3.6 billion. Payments of daily money may be reduced by $2.4 billion. It is still a positive consequence of the state of the labour market. More and more people are coming to work. Especially happy is the decline in the number of long - term unemployed. In one area, the situation is less positive now than when the Storting adopted the balanced budget. The net cash flow from the petroleum industry has been reduced by NOK 45,2 billion over the period under consideration. This will be the case, among other things. that taxes and taxes from the oil and gas industry have been reduced by 33 billion kroner. DAE payments are down by approx. $13 billion. The main cause of the downgrading is lower petroleum production in 2007 than that originally assumed. In addition, both investments and operating costs are higher this year than expected. Quite rightly, the average oil price in years has been higher than that of a previous one. In turn, this has helped to dampen the decline in the cash stream somewhat. Although there has been a positive trend in the revenue of the state since the budgetary balance for 2007 was agreed, we cannot be sure that the final figures will be re-balancing the 2007 budget. It applies both on the revenue side and on the expenditure side. We need to see this in conjunction with the level of insecurity associated with final consumption of regulated expenditure schemes, tax and tax revenues and the level of indebtedness transferred from 2007 to 2008. In the budget setting, there are several proposals from the Government. There are additional proposals only from the Progress Party. This party is on its own about its alternative course. The tradition believes that the Progress Party suggests additional permissions in several areas, e.g. the cancellation of debts in health care establishments, additional health care allowances, increased framework contributions to the municipal sector, additional payments to minimum pensioners in the month, the cancellation of debts to toll companies and increased investment for the police. The Progress Party believes that the cancellation of the debt in healthcare businesses should be financed through loan transactions. All of their other proposals will finance the Advance Party through increased use of petroleum revenues. Overall, the Advance Party will increase the use of oil money by just under 15 billion kroner. There is no doubt that the impact of the proposals of the Progress Party will lead to significant impulses towards the Norwegian economy. It's in a situation where the activity is very high. I believe that such a sharp increase in the use of petroleum revenues will create greater security around the arrangements of budgetary policy – not only in the short term, but also in the coming years. The heavy trade union environment has repeatedly pointed out that the effects of such an economic policy would be detrimental both to the level of interest rates and to the exchange rate. A broad majority of the financial committee and the Stortinget place great emphasis on such advice and clearly take these findings into account in the formulation of their policy. I mean, I'm politically wise. The party of progress makes a number that there would be room for their alternative budget for this year without any loss of revenue compared to the original budget allocation from the Government. In this context, I would like to point out that there is often uncertainty about the amount of budgetary appropriations to be committed. One year the budget can be strengthened throughout the year; another year we can have a opposite effect. The structural deficit shall initially be the remedy of the effects of cyclical developments. The changes we have made for 2007 are mainly due to the fact that one has not fully captured the effects on the budget of the strong growth of activity in the Norwegian economy. In my opinion, it is crucial that we avoid getting into a situation where the cyclical fluctuations in tax revenue are reflected in budgetary policy. In this case, it will provide a co-cyclical budgetary policy. A large number of Stortingen rejects such a course. We have to live with the fact that there is something uncertain about how high the budget is to be set. Nor can this security in itself be a basis for weakening the budgetary balance when the Stortinget discusses the recent ageing of the budget just before Christmas. The revenue and expenditure of the State have a real impact on the economy without regard to the uncertainty of the estimates in the budget. We can't shade the reality here either. In the configuration of the Financial Committee, the Progress Party claims that there is a distinction between consumption and investment. The view is expressed in connection with the proposal made by the party on the government repayment of the debts of the toll companies. In addition, it is argued that the proposal does not reduce national wealth, because it relates to an investment in lasting values. The reasoning of the Progress Party must be based on the fact that the debt of the toll companies does not have a real impact on the economy. There must be definitely errors. All debt cancellation will in reality be the transfer of funds from lenders to borrowers. It's actually so that the borrower escapes a cost that he would otherwise have to pay for. If you don't have to pay an expected cost, you can use it in another way. The Progress Party has a number of suggestions in the configuration that we are now debating. Quite rightly, the proposals have been launched during the treatment of new age in 2007. But there is every reason to doubt that many – if anyone at all – can be implemented this year. I think it's a little realistic that the government will be able to use the money for its purposes before New Year's. This means that the proposals can be problematic in relation to the need for realistic budgeting. In this context, I refer to the Regulations of the Government of the Grand Duchy, which states in Section 3 that the promise shall be «based on realistic estimates of expenditure and income». When a promise is not used before the budget year, it normally falls away. The remainder goes back to the treasury. For most of its proposals, it is likely that the Progress Party will recognise that the funds cannot be used in 2007. Many of the proposals for the licenses have been marked with the key chords ‘can be transferred’. This means that the money can also be used next year. I would like to point out that even if a lead Keyword can be transferred to proposals, there is no deviation from the requirement for realistic budgeting. The national audit has pointed to this point several times. In my view, there is a central condition in this context that funds intended to be used in 2008 are to be entered in the budget for the same year. The aim of the new erasure is to update the budget with the latest estimates of regulated expenditure arrangements, changes in the estimates of tax receipts and the final reconciliation of the current year's budget. This is why it is especially when proposals for new policies are put forward during the examination of these issues. Frame for e.g. For 2008, the Transport and Communications Committee has been set up to approx. $24.7 billion. Finally, the distribution by chapter and post was agreed by the Stortinget on 6 December this year. When, in the context of the treatment of the ageing process, the Progress Party proposes to cancel the debts of the toll companies, it would in practice say that the framework of that committee is exceeded by DKK 11.7 billion. That's 47 pst. of the framework adopted by the Stortinget as late as 28 November 2007. Otherwise, this proposal for debt cancellation does not appear to have been incorporated into the Progress Party's own proposals for framework distribution in the Budgetary Section. S. No I for 2007-2008. I note that the Progress Party, with a number of its proposals, challenges the requirements for realistic budgeting and the requirements of the Government's regulations. A broad majority of the financial committee is behind the recommendation put forward by the Stortinget. This meeting is based on a secure foundation when it joins the recommended meeting later today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e390	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e393	As the case spokesperson had in mind, we have a huge surplus on the state budget of approx. $400 billion for the current year. So there's an increase of almost 60 billion dollars in relation to what one believed six months ago. The Progress Party has proposed, as has been said, that part of this – a quarter of this increase, just over 15 billion kroner – can be used for various good actions. The representative, Reidar Sandal, is afraid of warming up the economy. I want to ask him which of these proposals he is most afraid of will warm up the economy. Is it that we want to give $2,000 to the least-in-one pensioners? Is it that we want to give more money to the Poor House, to the Church's Bymission and to the Salvation Army? Is it that we want to give more money to the municipalities, or is it the deletion of the toll-paying representative Sandal's most afraid of raising the economy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e402	I thought it was a good thing for the representative of Hagesetter to try. What I'm afraid of is, above all, the collective effect of the proposals that the Progress Party has presented. In order to balance the 2007 budget, a proposal for a new policy in a range of areas is being made. A real increase in the budget for 2008, as I have done in my contribution, by using oil money corresponding to approximately the same amount. $15 billion more than the rest of the size add up. What we're talking about together, we're going to create pressure trends in the economy. It's kind of unfortunate to do it in a period when we have a strong economic recession. The damage will then be particularly great with such an extremely expansive policy as this is envisaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e409	Policies are about prioritizing, not least the Workers' Party is good at pointing this out. Yesterday, the government decided to give priority to the Palestinian self-government authorities and to grant them $760 million. kr. I'm sure that money will go well in a busy pre-Christmas season in Gaza and the West Bank. Today, the Progress Party is proposing to give the lone minimum pensioners NOK 2000 in Christmas and SEK 20 million. to three relief organisations, so that they can organise Christmas events for the poorest in this country. In total, this will cost 175 million. kr, or one quarter of the gift to President Abbas. If Sandal's representative was given the opportunity to act as Prime Minister for one day, which of these two purposes would he give priority to?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e420	I understand it's a strategy from the Progress Party in connection with this line change to challenge in terms of simplicity. I thank that invitation, but I don't want to use it. What's the point for us is that the pooling of the impact of the proposals of the Progress Party will be unfortunate for the Norwegian economy. The Progress Party uses possibilities when balancing the budget to be at the extreme of what is justifiable and realistic budgeting, and what is in accordance with the Budgetary Regulations of the Storting. I believe that the Progress Party will have a significant problem if, in a distant future, they come into the situation where they have to take responsibility for ruling the country. I think that through their policy here they illustrate that they are not yet mature for that task.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e427	When the so-called rule of action was adhered to, the oil price was approx. Twenty bucks the barrel. Now the oil price is well over $90 barrel. This means that Norway, the Norwegian state, has received thousands of billions of dollars more than the one that initially suggests that one would get in if the oil price kept going. According to the Ministry of Finance's calculations, if the oil price remains at today's level, in 2030 the oil fund will amount to NOK 14 000 billion. If we divide it by the population, and the fact that there are as many inhabitants in Norway in 2030 as there are today – of course, it depends a little on immigration and such things – it will amount to 3 million. kr per. built-in. Then my question is: does the representative Sandal think that the oil fund will be large enough at some point, or is there no limit to how large it should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e434	I hope that the petroleum fund will be large, so that we can be solidarity with our descendants. There is something of the motive for building this fund as big and strong as possible. I just want to say that the difficult numbers to which the representative Hagesetter refers, I do not have anything to disagree with, but there is no reason to worry that the oil fund is going to be large. I have also not thought that there should be anything to thank for the size of the money, until one starts to dispose of the money in another way. In any case, I don't think it should be the government party – I don't really believe the previous government parties either – to start distributing money in cheques, as the representative Hageseter and the Progress Party played with last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e441	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Before we move on to the list of speakers, the President will propose that the speakers who sign up, in addition to the main speakers for each party and speaker from the Government, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e447	I understand that the President saw the outlines of how this debate could be, when she proposed a time limit later in the debate. The Progress Party notes that the oil-corrected deficit is now estimated at DKK 2.8 billion in the effusion. This means that the government almost doesn't use oil money. If you were to follow the rule of action, you could use 75,6 billion kroner. This implies, as I see it, that the 2007 alternative budget of the Progress Party, with an increase in oil money compared to the Government of NOK 22.8 billion, was also well within the action rule. The government budget deficit has been reduced by a total of NOK 51,3 billion since the budget was aged in the context of the revised national budget for 2007. At the same time, we note that the government budget's expenditure is reduced by NOK 5.4 billion, to NOK 711.3 billion. For the income of the country, estimates also differ considerably. We note that the country's tax revenue has been much higher than expected and has increased by 45.5 billion kroner since the revision process. The figures obtained in the new age of 2007 on tax revenue show that the proposed tax reliefs of the Progress Party in our 2007 alternative budget proposal would not result in the proceeds of the State proposed by the Ministry of Finance. For example, the country's revenue in taxes on wages and salaries is similar to that of the Progress Party's proposed reliefs, so that this could also be carried out without loss of income for the country. Furthermore, it is worth stressing that the Progress Party in its alternative budget shifts expenditure towards investment, unlike the Government, which prioritises expenditure on public consumption to a greater extent. In the context of the new age of 2007, the Progress Party believes that there is room for a large grip. The Progress Party is concerned about the debt burden incurred by regional health businesses. When health enterprises have an accumulated deficit that can approach NOK 2.6 billion by the end of 2007, the economic space of regional health enterprises is very limited. The accumulated deficit causes liquidity to be squeezed. Debt elimination is essential in order to enable regional health establishments to manage debt control while at the same time providing satisfactory liquidity. The Progress Party proposes that the total debt to the State be reduced by NOK 2 billion. We also propose an additional allocation of NOK 1 billion for health companies. Every day we hear about cuttings that will hit the patients. This size cannot be tacitly accepted, as we see it. We see that the situation in old age care is seriously deficient and precarious in a number of municipalities. Increased resources are needed to improve the quality and availability of individual users. We also refer to the increased level of school maintenance, as well as the need for investment in ICT equipment and IT infrastructure in schools. We believe it is necessary to increase the state contribution to ensure that students have a good indoor climate, top technical equipment and up-to-date school books. On this basis, we propose to allocate NOK 2 billion more to the local government sector. Furthermore, we have a proposal of NOK 2 000 extra for the minimum pensioners living alone this Christmas. Lone minimum pensioners serve at least of all the large groups of society. Even social assistance is worth NOK 17 000 more to go with this year. In 2007, Norway will have a surplus of nearly 400 billion kroner in the state economy. For this reason, both the Commission and the Member States should be able to afford to provide the group with the most difficult economic activity, an income gap. We are promoting proposals for these 2 000 kroner for December 2007 for single minimum pensioners. This is a very concrete proposal in the debate that has been going on for a long time. This applies, inter alia, to: Poverty reduction, as the Government says, is a matter of concern. We also want to pay off the toll, which will be equal to NOK 11.7 billion. There is a strong increase in the number of road projects in Norway financed by the fact that toll companies have borrowed money in the market and then implemented road projects. In addition to the above, several toll projects have been designed and ready for launch. These loans are served by paying tolls for the use of the completed road or where the road is planned to be built. The Party considers that, in the context of the imbalance between the total charges paid from the driving lists and the use of funds for road purposes, there is a basis for cancelling the debts of toll companies and for exceptional appropriations for the projects already decided to be financed by toll collection. Such financing of road projects will not create a significant increase in market demand, as the funds are either tied up or already used. I would also like to make it clear that the amortisation of toll companies' debts will not be seen as a cost in the accounting sense, but as a redistribution of wealth from current assets to fixed assets, and thus an investment in lasting values rather than a reduction in national wealth. This is not reflected in the budgetary system, as it is cost-based and does not distinguish between costs and investments, as normal accounting would do more correctly. We also believe that there is room for further investment within the police, and we propose a total of 40 million. kr for investment in the police. We are also promoting a number of other proposals, including: increasing the framework for regional health enterprises by 150 million. SEK and 2.5 million. kr for free influenza vaccine. We also have a verbal proposal – that NOx taxes that are not included in environmental funds or used for environmental measures are funded. In this position, we are also promoting proposals of 20 million. to non-governmental organisations to strengthen their efforts for the poorest. The problem of poverty, which I was talking about earlier here today, has been debated violently in recent years. We've seen a bunch of games, and we've recorded that all of the games say you're busy doing something about this. Nevertheless, there are no concrete proposals from the Government. The Progress Party has concrete proposals to improve conditions for the poorest in Norway. I would like to point out the good work done by many non-governmental organisations – perhaps especially during the Advent and Christmas season. The Poor House, the Church's City Mission and the Salvation Army are examples of this. It will be possible to create a more pleasant Christmas too many through an extra grant to such organizations to enable them to arrange Christmas events for those who are not able to do it themselves. We therefore want to grant – and propose – 20 million. kr for distribution between voluntary organisations. Even with these proposed additions and the debt cancellation proposal that I have presented, we will use far less than what the Government and the majority of the population thought was sound in June 2007 in dealing with the revised state budget, i.e. very few months ago. Against this background, I would like to address the proposals made by the Progress Party in the position of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e490	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e495	In the notes to the Progress Party, they do not relate to the difference between the oil-corrected deficit and the structural oil-corrected deficit. In fact, terminology here is hard to understand, but the Progress Party points out that they will not relate to the structural deficit, as the Government does. Then my question becomes the Progress Party: does it mean that if the Advance Party were to enter its government position, they would go away from the entire budgetary system, which all governments have been dealing with in their work? If this is true, it is important that the Advance Party flag that view, and I expect them to flag it in good time before the elections. What is the point of view of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e502	Let me first make it clear that the Advance Party is known as the party that calls a spade a spade. We're just saying what's actually between the lines of what the government often refers to in very difficult words and is being wrapped into the system you've chosen. Yes, if the Progress Party comes into government, we want to change the budgeting system in Stortinget. We even have in our party programme that we want a budget that distinguishes much more between what goes into operation and what goes into investment, and we want to put in place a long-term budgeting system such as that. the financial committee heard the practice in England when the financial committee was there for a few months. The Progress Party also wants comprehensive reforms of the budgetary system as we know it in the Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e509	At first, it would have been tempting to ask the Progress Party: what is the reason why you don't use a little more than what you do? Why not add a few thousand more patches to the minimum pensioners, for example.? This indicates that there is no limit to what the economy can tolerate, if we are to interpret the Progress Party correctly. So the question to Leirstein is, what is the reason why you don't choose to use even a little bit more? I also assume that the representative Leirstein agrees that even with the budget of the Progress Party, if it were aged and had been adopted today, there would still have been unresolved tasks in Norway. Then I have one more specific question. Earlier this fall, this government has been criticised by the rest of its civility for being too expansive in the use of money. Yes, it even went so far that the Right has now guaranteed that, in cooperation with the Advance Party in any new government, it would be entirely inappropriate to add to the kind of money and budgeting that we are experiencing again today from the Advance Party. Is the representative of Leirstein willing to accept that description of reality on the civil side? If he is not, what promises are there that will be broken first, if the Progress Party has to cut close to 30 billion kroner next time?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e516	There were a lot of questions here. Of course, I can't answer all of them in one minute. But we have a lot of debates, me and the representative, Mr Micaelsen, in this Chamber, and should probably come back to it either beyond the evening today or on a later occasion. Let me say at least first, yes, of course it would have been unsolved tasks in society even if our proposals had been adopted today. That's how we have a government today that in a number of areas actually fails completely, and in particular I'm quite surprised that you're totally failing when it comes to, among other things. doing concrete things to combat poverty. When the finance minister and SV leader Kristin Halvorsen spoke about this in the election campaign, I actually believed in her – I was totally convinced. But I see that excellent proposals are not entirely concrete. Why are we proposing only NOK 2 000? Well, when the government that sits today, and the majority of the population shows so little interest in following up concrete proposals, at least the Progress Party believed that such a simple and very concrete proposal that we have promoted, which amounts to very little, namely 146 million. kr, the bulk of the population should be able to go for it. Nevertheless, I find that the majority actually chooses to reject the use of these 146 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e525	The representative, Leirstein, described the boom as strong. Yes, it is so strong that the increase in the number of annual works in work exceeds everyone's forecasts. It is with it a huge cost increase not least in key strokes, especially in investment projects. The party making progress is building on more investment, more road investment and, above all, more road investment in key areas. I have two questions. Does the Progress Party view this cost development as a problem? And points. 2: What are the proposals of the Progress Party in aging that will dampen this cost increase in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e532	When we presented our alternative state budget for 2006, for 2007 and for 2008, the Progress Party, with our structural proposals, showed how to do something about the issue of which the representative Lundtägen is concerned. Of course, it will not be possible to take the big grips in the treatment of the ejaculation. We ourselves believe that we have done a few simple and minor steps in this aging process, even though it is also characterised as well at the top, by some representatives in this room. When the Progress Party proposes concrete investments, we will make, among other things, This is in consultation with what the professional organisations themselves say it is possible to invest, for example: in the construction sector here in Norway. We trust that the professional organisations themselves know what free capacity is there, because there are actually available available capacity in some areas. When we now propose to cancel and pay off the debt to the toll companies in the new era, it is because there are investments that have already been made, or are planned and to be carried out, and that will have little impact on the activities of the representative Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e541	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e544	It is tempting to make this a big reprisal of the financial debate we had earlier this autumn, but I will try not to do so. Just a few comments from the Right-hand side. I'd like to start by giving the Minister of Finance credit for a tidy new age. The right has always been concerned with the cleanness of the effusion and the end of the financial year. It's not where to put new policies. I also agree with the assessments made by the Committee's chairman, Mr Sandal, on realistic budgetary matters. But I would like to remind the representative Reidar Sandal that both the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party in the previous period, when they were in opposition, also sinned in this area, if not to the same extent as the Progress Party does in this new age. I remember very well that after budgeting rounds I needed to also punish the Workers' Party in order to put some extra pieces of goods in the freshly aged period. But I am pleased that the Workers' Party is now making it so clear that new ageing should be a new era, and that the policies that you have, whether there is extra money for municipalities, for poverty measures or on the way, should be reflected in the regular budgets that you are presenting. What's interesting about the effusion is the information about the very strong growth in tax revenue. In fact, tax revenues increased by DKK 20 billion in 2006 in addition to what was budgeted, and for 2007 tax revenues increase by NOK 42 billion more than budgeted. Of course, we can have a debate on the tools the Ministry of Finance has for estimating tax revenue, but the reason why I think this is interesting is that there is also a political perspective on it. It shows that it is not the tax revenue that currently hampers the further development of our welfare society, but there is simply a shortage of labour. In this way, very much of the rhetoric used by the Minister of Finance in advance of the previous decision making, namely that the choice was between tax relief and welfare. In fact, we now see that tax revenue is growing so strongly that even a government with an SV is not able to use up all the tax revenues that you now get because of the strong growth in the economy. On the contrary, it would be more sensible now to take action to increase access to labour. In this context, the Right and several of the other bourgeois parties have called for a reduction in the tax on lower and ordinary incomes, because we know that moderate tax reliefs on lower and ordinary incomes help to increase the supply of labour. We have also made a number of other proposals in our alternative budgets to increase the supply of labour, but of course we are not bringing them back into the new era. But it's one of the most important things that we can actually do to ensure the further development of well-being. Then there are not tax increases to be made, but measures that help us to get more labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e555	The recent ageing of the State budget for 2007 represents only minor adjustments. The main purpose of this document is to update and discuss the whole of the budget. The recent ageing of the year involves historically significant changes both in the reduction of the actual oil-corrected deficit and in the reduction of the structurally oil-corrected deficit. At the same time, the difference between these two central approaches is now NOK 56 billion, which shows the enormous strength of today's high economic situation. This gives us a clear indication of the necessary strength of corrective economic instruments to mitigate the negative effects of the high economic cycle, with considerable cost growth in key areas. At the same time, the net cash flow to the community from the petroleum sector has been reduced by a total of DKK 45 billion from the aged budget in 2007, from last harvest to the new era of the day. Despite increased petroleum prices, further declines in output combined with strong growth in investment result in this budget line. By October this year, total annual oil production has fallen to 195 million oil equivalents, or about 5 pst., in one year. The consequences of this must now be given greater attention in the political debate. The total tax revenue of the State budget from mainland Norway is now estimated at NOK 631 billion in 2007, an increase of huge 12.3 pst. from 2006. This results in an increase of approximately DKK 41 billion compared to the 2007 state budget adopted at this time last year. Labour supply is much higher than budgeted. A number of incentives have been put in place, not least from State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. It's positive. The tax profile of personal taxpayers should be reinforced in favour of those with lower revenues, both for distribution and for the current labour situation. Unique research shows that these groups of workers react with the greatest increase in labour input in lower taxation. The redistribution of the tax burden is therefore a central theme in the work of the 2009 budget. For the past four years, public consumption has had a real underlying expenditure growth with a good match between the figures in the Yellow Book, i.e. the government's proposal for a government budget, and the final accounts for the year. The government’s share of gross domestic product is reduced by this fact on a planned basis. The current situation also implies that national budget figures for private consumption, oil extraction and pipeline transport and housing investment show a sharp increase from budget to accounting figures. In good Norwegian, this part of the national budget cracks. The need for labour is increasing sharply in these areas of society. Here is the government's biggest challenge in the coming national budget. If we do not get a more realistic budgeting based on stronger governance tools for these areas of society, this will result in such a strong pressure to implement a tighter fiscal policy that it comes in even greater disdain for people's sober expectations, among other things. welfare services provided by municipalities, public investment in better communications and incentives for necessary investments in renewable energy. Neither the Progress Party nor the previous government parties show the willingness to debate this whole. A price-early brave exception is former Right-State Council Victor D. Norman in Today's Economy December 8th this year. His main point was: «The bill, thank you!» «Should we have a first-class public service offer, we have to pay the price.» His proposal for increased taxes in order for companies to seize fewer people is in violation of the tax promise in the Soria Moria Declaration to the Government. The tradition of the centre party is mixed economy, where the correction of market forces to achieve societal objectives is very strong. So we have a tradition of a pragmatic economic policy in which new radical instruments can be used to ensure social development that gives a more long-term focus on building Norway. We would like to continue the debate with Victor D. Norman to have a majority in favour of a new and more unorthodox economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e571	It would have been very tempting to take up the thread from the discussion that the representative Lundtegen here draws up in his support for Victor D. Norman's desire to speed up the phasing out of traditional industry, agriculture and fisheries in order to get people into service industries and the public sector. But I'm not going to take that debate. I would rather problematize the consequences of much of what he says. First of all, I would like to say that when we are now dealing with the effusion, there is a broad commitment to making it one of the last clearing jobs in the budget, and not to make all the policies that theoretically make it possible to make of effusion. In this way, it is necessary to congratulate the sitting government on having a better opposition than any other government has had before. It's maybe the greatest power that the government has. There are two aspects I would like to reflect on when we are now dealing with the ejaculation. It is true that when a person gets such a fantastic document on his table as the new age of the Government, which makes up the status of the Kingdom, it is almost that he does not know whether to laugh or cry or – the traditional – pull on his shoulders. The debate has a bit of an impact on the past, because we have a tradition for that. There are nevertheless grounds for doing some reflections on: what is this all about? Tax is the key to one. It's absolutely adventurous what power there is in the economy, and how wonderfully much more power there is in the economy than anyone was able to predict, even all the Treasury wise people, when the budget was created. I'm going to come back a little bit to that relationship, because I think it's for us all to travel some challenges we're going to address. It also points to the debate we are now starting to debate about total tax revenue and tax levels. Firstly, the current government has chosen to commit itself to a level of taxation that is equal to the level of taxation in 2004. In 2004, a level of taxation was established by the Bondevik II Government. It was about the middle of the government period and is perhaps an expression of the average tax level that was under the Bondevik II government. There are no more dramatic changes than what has happened. It's obviously not the highest tax rate we've had here in the country, but we obviously have the highest tax revenue we've had here in the country. I want to discuss what I have said many times before: there is no obvious connection, at my discretion, between the level of taxation and tax revenue in the sense that the higher the level of taxation, the higher the tax revenue. I think it's right to talk about a proper tax level that gives the highest income, by making a lot more money to tax. Many more people get income, and the economy goes well. In this way, I think we have a tax level that in today's situation takes the maximum out of what we can produce from tax revenue. Now I don't think it's just taxes under the previous government that have created good times – definitely not. These are, above all, economic trends and, above all, many happy relationships. However, I believe that the document we have received today shows that it is not a matter of having the highest possible level of taxation in order to get the highest possible tax revenue. There is a level of taxation that triggers labour, unemployment, triggers efforts and a number of enterprises that can be taxed. I remember being in a debate in the previous period with the then parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Jens Stoltenberg, where I was just expressing the fact that correct tax havens, the right tax level could give higher tax revenues. I remember he called me Woodoo-Lars, that it was kind of magic to unite such sizes. It is my opinion – and subject to many other factors that also work – that the aging we have for treatment today is proof that this was not magic. It's pretty good logic, that we can get record high tax revenues without having a record high tax level. I think we're going to have a lot of debates on that in the future. This means that the debate on either tax-free or fair tax levels or the community becomes a completely wrong issue. It has to be properly combined. Then there is another issue that I would like to send with as a Christmas greeting – or should we say New Year’s Eve – to the Minister of Finance. It is the problem that we are now dealing with a new age that shows that what we thought was fine-tuning instruments when we dealt with the budget a year ago is now proving to be an incredible anomaly. After having followed the budgetary procedures for very many years, and with changing governments, I believe I can record that there is an increasing difference between what is the final result and what we are budgeting for. I think it's starting to get up to a level that's quite problematic. I think this is happening especially in good times when we don't have systems, budgeting systems, maybe models, that capture the power of the economy. Just because with my amateur thoughts on these things I have reflected around this, whether we have accurate enough knowledge to set such a clear framework for the capacity of the economy e.g., I got a little eye opener when we had a hearing in the committee on next year's budget, from LO's chief economist Stein Reegård, who on behalf of his trade, the social economists, the sacred administrators of the Ministry of Finance, took a little self-criticism to say that we are now sitting with some kind of insufficient knowledge about what is really happening in the economy. I'll bring some quotes from what Reegård said, because I think it was very interesting. He says, of course, that there is a 'positive development' that is happening. He goes on to say: "But what we say at the same time is that we know a little bit. And that's not because we think it's because we're a little bit uninformed, but we think it's a problem that bothers more and that should bother even more. Once again, it means that we don't fully understand the basis of macro-politics. What it is based on and what it should have built on." As a number example, Reegård used the following in the consultation within the Committee: ‘One way to see this is how growth in employment is underestimated. The estimates have been very, very low. FIN estimated that the employment growth in 2006 would first be 18,000, then 55,000, while the answer was 72,000.’ In addition, labour migration and the provision of services are included. And then of course he says this is positive, but then he says, ‘What we see is deviations that are far beyond what is common. Norway’s Bank is just as remote from the 2.5% price rise target as ever. There has been much greater capacity in the economy than monetary policy has been based on.’ And then he ends up saying, ‘This is what I call ‘the macrophysiology’. There are some structural features that are problematic. Here we are faced with new problems that make the department’s systems and registers not entirely related.’ [[financial]] I agree with what Reegård says, and if I can't join everything he says here, I would say that the problematization it represents, I think it's worth taking with me when we have today a document that shows so big an aberration that our economy has obviously tolerated a lot more than what we thought just a year ago, and that a little of the self-examination done here by the professional economist Reegård, should also be done by all the professional economists in and around the Ministry of Finance, who perhaps also with a critical look should look at the models and systems that one uses to drive the fiscal planning that a budget is. This is not a criticism of this finance minister or anyone else, but there is a need to wonder in a situation where so much is happening especially around our economy that shows that it is the economy that is a little insufficient. Then a journey on the search for knowledge should see if there are things we can modernise, models we can improve, and take it with us when we're going to budget further. I hope that, in the future, we will face new agings where the results are closer to what we have fine-looking when we have budgeted, otherwise this starts to get a little bit weird. Since it may be the last time I'm here this year, I would like to take the opportunity to wish the President and Stortinget a really good Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e617	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e620	Let me first congratulate the representative Lars Sponheim on an excellent post. I can join most of what he said. Norway goes and laughs. Norway AS had additional tax revenue of NOK 41.8 billion, as has been said a few times from this pulpit. This means that the activity of the domestic economy, which was also the representative of Sponheim, has been much higher than that of the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Norway or any other illustrative owner. What does that mean? Well, what we're saying is that the Norwegian economy has tolerated much greater activity without creating inflation, without creating pressure on the krone price, without the job being flagged out. The only thing that's gone up is the interest rate. And the interest rate has risen because the regulations are not followed. The inflation target of 2,5 pst. is not followed, but the governor chooses to increase the interest rate. So the only thing that's gone up is the interest rate. Then it's a little strange that the Progress Party, which spends money far lower than this, gets the violent criticism we get. Last year the position was just as obvious. They said that our policy would not work, there would be pressure in the economy, and everything would go wrong, and they're just as persuasive now, perhaps with the exception of the representative Sponheim, and say that it will go wrong with the policies of the Progress Party. We'll wait until next year, what's going to happen in the aged budget, and then we'll see what the fasit becomes. My tip is that the position is going to be equal to the postulate. The balanced budget clearly shows that the rule of action is dead and buried. I think everyone, if they're a little honest, has to admit that. It must also reflect on what I said instead, namely that you cannot have macro-economics as exact science. The rule of action is dead and buried. When you use 0.15 pst. by the State pension fund and you can use 4 pst. – a little less, a little more – you can't defend the rule of action. You use 0.15 pst, and then you say it's the measuring instrument. It's not the measuring instrument. But the strange thing about today's debate is that the increased tax revenue is referred to as government money. That's not the government's money. That's the people's money. And the most natural thing would be to pay back something to the legitimate owners of the money, who have created this activity in the Norwegian economy – not least when the government says it can't use this money, but instead it has to salt them into stocks around and in bonds in other countries. The most reasonable thing would be to pay back to the legitimate owners. Finally, I have to say to the representative Sandal: he may be able to excuse everything with a lot of technicalities, but the truth is that the minimum pensioners, drug addicts or homeless people don't care about the technicalities. It is possible to give some support at Christmas to those who have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e633	This final aging of the year's budget is the nation of Norway's Christmas salary. The pleasant thing about the nation's Christmas pay is that the situation is very good. The nation formally ostracises money when the year's accounts are settled. It's so good that we almost don't spend oil money in 2007, and that's possible, and in the opinion of the Progress Party, it's also perfectly sound, for the nation to spend a little extra on important areas in the Christmas month of December. It's actually also up to the Storting to decide for themselves. In the setting, the Progress Party proposes to dispose of approx. DKr 16 billion. DKr 14 billion is the redistribution of the nation's wealth from state financial profits to state capital. Of these, almost $14 billion, we're going to spend about $4 billion. NOK 12 billion to clear the debts of toll companies in road projects. We remove the toll liability and remove the toll payment. Nationally and for the individual driver who is currently paying tolls, not only do we remove the levy for the built-up road on hire, we also eliminate the payment of interest, the collection costs for the construction and demolition of toll stations, which also have to be paid by the drivers when the road is financed on payoff. We remove an inefficient financing and an unnecessary and disproportionately expensive and unproductive job of collection. Overall, this has a good socio-economic impact. Every year, when the state budget is being examined, the Progress Party is proposing more funding for road construction, and every year we hear that we're irresponsible, we overwhelm the economy. Every year, the Progress Party also hears that this is not possible, because there is no free capacity to build roads. At the same time, the parties who warn against the policies of the Progress Party say yes to building a transport project on a pay-off. But the construction that is financed over 15 to 20 years is being carried out in a shorter time. You build at the normal pace, with labor and machinery available. So construction is going to take place regardless of the form of funding. Toll-funded projects with a debt per year 31 December 2007 mainly projects that have been built and adopted have been built. The construction capacity has been used or dedicated. So it's not going to move a spade, it's not going to be built another meter. There is zero effect and zero overheating of the economy, unless the representative Sandal then believes that savings in tolls for the individual driver lead to a seamless use of money and a warm-up in the national economy. Thus, the proposal of the Progress Party for the cancellation of tolls becomes a repositioning of state assets from financial assets to assets, and no consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e644	Just a few brief comments at the end of this debate, which of course is marked by the fact that we have had the strongest boom in Norway in 30 years just now. Probably we're at the end of it, but it's not good to say, because it's very much a result of an international boom, and we're located in the middle of it. We get good prices for what we export, and we import fairly. It is quite right that the capacity and development of the labour market has been very favourable, and far more favourable than we have historical basis to believe. There's something of the challenge here that there's not so much in the next story we can learn from as to just how this situation is. So there's 150,000 more working now than there were two years ago. The same number of people live in Tromsø and Fredrikstad together. There is a significant workforce that we have managed to mobilise to solve important tasks, but it is far more than we could believe two years ago that it was possible to get into the Norwegian labour market. And thank you and the price for that, because that means that despite a very low unemployment rate, we have managed to get it further down and still have managed to solve a lot of problems. But I fully agree with the representative Sponheim that we must constantly seek new knowledge and improve the instruments and governance we have in relation to economic policy. So to some of the things that are the discussion here. Of course, when we look at the actual oil-corrected deficit, it makes up the accounts of the company Norway. But that's not how we evaluate it when we make state budgets, because then we correct it for what is the cyclical situation, we sort of clean up the state budget for the cyclical situation. Of course, it's because we're capping the top of the economy, but we're also capping the bottom of the recession. If the Progress Party were to take its own argument completely out, it would have meant that, in the recession, there was a need to tighten up school and health care and what it might be, while in high economic conditions it could be put on. So we're smoothing out those fluctuations, because it's a more sensible way to build a welfare society. I have to say that it is news to me at least that the Progress Party intends to link the rule of action and the budgetary governance instruments to the actually oil-corrected deficit, not the structurally adjusted deficit, because it would lead to completely different fluctuations in the economy. Managing these good times is a major challenge now, so that they last as long as possible. The most important thing we must have in mind is to ensure that we have a low unemployment situation for as long as possible. This has meant that many more have been able to participate in the increase in wealth we have had, and that is the main objective of economic policy in a welfare state that wants to include as much as possible and that needs the labour that many can contribute to, and probably even more so today, if we implement the state budget as planned for 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e655	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 1616]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e673	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1621]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e692	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 1621]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e710	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e728	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 1622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e741	The amount of the increase shall be added to the number of cases. 1-18.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e749	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 3-5, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the right and left 6, by Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 7, from May Helen Molvær Grimstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e780	Proposal No. 6, from the Progress Party, taken up for voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with its own case about the new distribution of the gambling surplus.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e795	Proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left shall be taken up for voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e825	Proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, the Christian Party, and the Left, are taken up to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e1967	During the debate May-Helen Molvær Grimstad put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide information on the staff situation in the kindergarten sector in the context of the 2008 Revised National Budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e2104	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 2 and 3, from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e2149	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size requests the Government, as a condition for the development and operation of the Scurvy Field, that the operating organisation be located north of the 62nd parallel.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e2769	During the debate, Torbjørn Andersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government, by spring 2008 at the latest, to promote its own case for the Storting on how to increase local power generation in order to reduce the need for large-scale high-voltage power lines, as well as alternative cable/sea cable solutions in particularly vulnerable areas.’ This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e3189	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinge which removes the county/district’s right of objection in municipal planning and land decisions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e3230	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to restrict the county council/right of objection in municipal planning and land decisions.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party now wants to support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e3251	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Lien, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and Mr Lien, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e3299	There will then be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government in spring 2008 to promote a case for the Stortinget with a strategy for industrial development and jobs in municipalities with a high level of protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e3318	During the debate, Mrs Leirstein put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e5420	There will be a vote on the proposal by the representative of the Grand Council, Peter Skovholt Gitmark, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelsting on 14 December 2007: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring proceedings before the Storting where it considers that it is necessary to promote the necessary legislative and regulatory changes, so that the Customs Authority may have the necessary powers to, for example, hold back suspected objects, stop control objects, access to use blue lights and to derogate from the Road Traffic Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e5439	Lars Sponheim – please!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e5442	President! I would ask that the proposal on file No. 16 is converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e5447	It will be met!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e5450	Thank you, President! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e5459	The proposal by Mr Odd Einar Dørum, on behalf of the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget on 13 December 2007 is then converted into a transmission proposal and will be replaced by the following: ‘It is recommended that the Government in its work on the Police Register Act ensure that the person registered in the identity register can be erased after a certain period of time, unless the data subject is convicted of new offences or other important circumstances that indicate that the registration should be maintained.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without a real assessment – and considered to be a welcome one.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e5472	Votes will be put to the vote on the proposal by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 13 December 2007: «The decision asks the Government to investigate and, where appropriate, to make the necessary proposals in relation to whether the State is also in cases other than those covered by the compensation for the victims, shall have a system whereby the State funds the compensation and then requires recourse. The Government reports back to Stortinget in an appropriate manner on its own matter.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e5491	Proposals will be submitted from the Odelstinget meeting on 13 December 2007: ‘The Government is asking the Government, in the context of the 2008 Revised National Budget, to come back with a detailed review of the violent victims’ compensation scheme.’ The Labour Party, the Right Party and the Left Party support this proposal, but the President assumes that the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also want to support the proposal. The Progress Party does not wish to support the proposal. Then there will be the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left who will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e5501	The centre party will also vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e5508	This is getting better and better. The centre party will also support the proposal. [[Laughter]] Then it is only the Progress Party that will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-18-2.ana.ud204e5529	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
