ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e37	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e46	This proposal, originally from the Right, is aimed at obtaining stricter conditions in relation to family reunification. In concrete terms, the Right wishes that the applicant for family reunification/establishment should not receive social or other municipal financial support one year before the application. It is also pointed out that a person should not have received state or municipal housing and that he/she should be in a situation of life where he/she is able to support himself/her spouse. So we want clearer and stricter economic demands in connection with family reunification. The proposers have shown that it is not a public task to finance people’s choice of spouse. It has also been demonstrated by the right-wing proposers that the 21-year limit is not a targeted measure to combat coerciveness. On the part of the government parties – the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party – and also on the part of the Christian People's Party and the Left – it has been argued that a new foreign law and a new foreign regulation will be introduced, and that this matter will be assessed in that context. The Progress Party and the Right agree that it is important to impose a decent standard of living for persons coming to Norway through family reunification, because it is a clear prerequisite for successful integration. So it's not primarily a public commitment to fund people's choice of spouse. It has been important for the Progress Party to point out that this is one of several proposals that need to be seen in the context when assessing family reunification policy. More stringent economic requirements need to be combined with a 24-year age limit for re-uniting with spouses, attachment requirements and, of course, a prohibition on sibling childhood, precisely because the economic aspect itself may have adverse effects. On the part of the Progress Party, we have always stressed that it is possible to end up in a situation where young people from the immigrant population are pressured into low-wage jobs, refrain from taking up education, in order to get financial space to finance a penitentiary. We think that's unfortunate. For this reason, we assume that this measure must be seen in the context of the 24-year rule, the related requirements and the prohibition of sibling childhood. It is essential for the Progress Party. So we also say in the follow-up to this that even if we are in favour of this proposal as it exists here, we assume that it is also followed up with the other instruments. Furthermore, the Progress Party and the Right are united in this regard. It is an important principle that the public should not take the financial burden, and the taxpayers the financial responsibility, for people's choice of spouse. People are free to make that choice, but then it also has to be so that you are financially able to bear the responsibility that comes with it. It is interesting and good that the government parties, and in addition the Left and Christian People's Party, want to see this in connection with new foreign law. But now I think we are starting to have a little bad time, because the Foreign Affairs Act has been suspended for almost a year. From the point of view of the Progress Party, we are far from sure that it will really be presented in June, as the Government has stated on previous occasions. It tells me that we should deal with this and decide on the proposal from the Right now instead of just moving it in front of us pending a new foreign law. I would like to refer our proposal to the matter on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e65	Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e68	In its letter to the Committee, the Council of State on this matter writes that it is most appropriate to await the overall assessment made under the new Foreign Affairs Act. As a general rule, of course, I agree that the assessments we make should be seen in an overall context. In this case, however, there are the many deferrals of the new law on foreigners that are the reason we promoted this proposal. First of all, we can't just let time go and thus postpone the problems. Secondly, the draft consultation on the new Foreign Affairs Act has led to a major debate on the age of 21 years, possibly 24 years, of the Progress Party, for family reunification with spouses. For us in the Right, the legal age limit is not the way to go. We believe that other measures need to be taken. That is why we are promoting the proposal on stricter conditions for family reunification and family establishment. We want to ensure that the resident can support his family, and independently take care of the people around him and include them in the Norwegian community. It is not a public task to finance people's choice of spouse. Therefore, we propose stricter conditions for migration to Norway through family reunification and family establishment. We believe that our proposal will be preventive in relation to coercion. Forced marriage is prohibited and should be severely punished. We take a strong distance from parents or others who force children to marry – against their will. We want to be uncompromising about the right of young people to choose. Promises and rules shall apply to all. On the right, there is a policy that gives each individual the freedom to make their own choices. We believe that everyone has a right to choose their own companionship. However, there is no targeted action against coerciveness to introduce access requirements and an age limit applicable to all. This requirement will affect the entire young Norwegian population who find love outside their borders. This number has increased as tourism and studies abroad have taken place. The introduction of the age limit will be the wrong way to go, we believe. We're asking what's going to be the next detention measure we want to introduce. Now we understand that our proposal is annexed to the Minutes. We expect the Council of State to include both the proposal and the content of this debate in the further work on the new Foreign Affairs Act. From our point of view, we look forward to debating and adopting a new law that will be very important to our area – a law that is in fact urgent to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e83	Let me start my post by telling a story -- not a thoughtful case, but a real story about a couple who got married in 1999. He was Norwegian, had health challenges, was in and out of work and qualified for housing support. She was an immigrant from a non-EU country and had education that could not be used in Norway. The situation in 2007 is that the two remain married and live in Norway. He's in recovery. She has learned Norwegian, took education as an assistant nurse and has a full job. The family lives in a row house, and does not receive housing support today. After the right-hand proposal, this woman should not have come to Norway. I want to ask two serious questions: was it wrong that these two had family start-ups? Or, in another way, is it right to refuse any family establishment for financial reasons? Christian People's Party believes no. My other question is: is it right to view immigrants as a burden on society? Isn't this woman, who works full-time as an assistant at an old home, a resource for society? Our answer is yes, she is a resource! The Christian People's Party and a large majority, all parties except the Right and the Advance Party, believe it would be appropriate to await the decision of the proposals that we are discussing now, to deal with the Foreign Affairs Act, where the whole family immigration policy can be seen in the context. However, this is a fine opportunity to discuss various aspects of the matter. Proposals propose stricter conditions for obtaining a spouse or another member of the family from Norway. In other words, have you come into a life situation where you receive public assistance, such as: housing, you are not allowed to pick up a spouse or marry a human being from another continent. In addition, it is argued from the Right that this is an alternative to forced marriage, which is more accurate than a 21-year limit. The representative, Kari Lise Holmberg, said to the evening post on 17 November 2006: ‘We reject the introduction of an age limit for family reunification for reasons of principle, but we believe that by making clear economic demands to the applicant, we achieve it significantly. When the person who picks up a spouse from Norway must be at work and not receive a benefit, one must be an adult at the same time. An adult can easily resist pressure from the family to engage in forced marriage.’ The Christian People's Party agrees with the Right that the 21-year-old age limit is not the way to go in the case of forced marriage. But I strongly doubt the certainty of the Right's proposal that we are discussing today. I believe that my story initially says something about it. In addition, the Right’s proposal includes not only marriage but also reunification with other family members, for example: minor children. We already have strong demands today that the resident has high enough income to support a fetched spouse or another family member. For persons who have received a residence on a humanitarian basis, an income equal to a gross annual salary of just under DKK 180 000 is required. Even more stringent requirements of dependability than today will affect already vulnerable groups to an excessive extent. It will affect children left alone in war and conflict areas, and children on the run. In the Christian People's Party, we'd rather consider easing these demands, not going the other way. Jon Ole Martinsen of the organisation Self-help for immigrants and refugees illustrates this with the following example in a chronicle in Dagbladet on 12 March: «The Somali woman, with 4 children, is in a hopeless and uncertain existence in a temporary refugee camp in neighbouring countries, the spouse killed during the civil war. I'm in the refugee camp with her older mother. The woman manages to collect enough money to get out of the camp and into Europe, but only with 2 of the children. Travel with the two oldest, as it is a dangerous flight they are to carry out. Hopes to reunite with the others as soon as she gets to the West and leaves the youngest children with her mother in the refugee camp. Refugees end in Norway, where she waits for asylum reception and the asylum process takes two years, which is not unusual in these cases. Finally, a residence and work permit is granted on a humanitarian basis, and then applies for reunification with its children.’ Unfortunately, the introduction benefit is not sufficient to satisfy the entertainment contribution and she is denied the application for family reunification with her children. This may be an unintended consequence of the proposal from the Right. But it is a consequence that for me is so serious that I could not have voted in favour of the proposal to the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e115	We have gradually become accustomed to this type of proposal in the United Kingdom, where we try to limit and put obstacles in the way of immigrants and people who want to come to Norway and who need to come to Norway. What surprises me with this proposal is that it is Right that has promoted it – Right that, at least as most of us perceive that party, stands for a liberal and humanist political tradition. It also surprises me to hear Kari Lise Holmberg's argument for the proposal. We fully agree with the Right that the age limit for family reunification in marriage is a bad proposal. When Kari Lise Holmberg argues for this proposal, she says that a proposal on the age limit in relation to forced marriage will affect the entire young Norwegian population." While the proposal they are launching today, obviously will not affect the entire Norwegian people. Her position in relation to the age limit is a good point of view, but the reason she used seems to me to have been sought and almost irreproachable. We are opposed to this proposal. We see no need to change today's rules. There are several reasons for this. Firstly, we are currently dealing with the Foreign Affairs Act of a single law, and during the spring we are going to deal with the whole of foreign policy in the context. That is why it is completely unnecessary to withdraw this proposal. There's no urgent need to do the constraints that the right here add up to. That is why we see no reason why this proposal should be dealt with independently of the law on foreigners that we are being dealt with in its entirety. This proposal affects not only adults but also children, as the Christian People's Party also stressed. This tightening, which makes it more difficult to get family reunion, not only affects those who want to pick up a spouse, it also affects children in a completely unreasonable way. I simply believe that the Right has not thought through the consequences of this proposal as it is formulated. That is why I am pleased that this is not being adopted, and that all that has to do with family reunification is being seen in the context of the foreign law that we start the treatment of later in the spring, possibly in the autumn. So I think what we've been up to here, that we're not taking our position on it now, that this is not being adopted, is a good proposal, and then we're taking the whole problem in dealing with the law on foreigners.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e126	The right to family life is fundamental in a liberal democracy. Living with one’s family is natural, and getting reunited with one’s immediate family after having had one’s own stay in Norway is not to be suspected. The starting point for the left is therefore that family reunification must be widely allowed, both for human reasons and for reasons of integration. That being said, of course, the Left agrees with the proposers that society should make demands on each of us, including immigrants. This has been an important part of the integration policy of the Left for many years. I therefore agree that care should be taken for those who want to live in Norway with their foreign spouse. Now it is also the case today that, as a general rule, entertainment needs to be ensured in order to stay on the basis of family reunification. When we have not wanted to support the proposal, it is because we believe that the design of new rules in this area should be seen in full together with the rest of a new foreign law. Proposalers also address in their proposal the problem of coerciveness. The left fully agrees that much more must be done to prevent young girls and boys from getting married against their will. Forces with regard to spouse may never be accepted. Behind some of the family reunification figures, there is also a use of people, where young, married women and men of some are used as a means of getting to Norway. Such abuse of the rules involves serious violations of human rights and undermines the family reunification institute. The left will not tolerate such abuse both in the interests of the credibility of the family reunification institute and in the interests of the victims. However, the Left agrees with the proposers that neither access requirements nor age limits are targeted measures to prevent forced marriage. The families who are truly concerned with the honor of the family will, in any case, escape such general rules, and the result may be even worse for those who are subjected to coercion. The left will do more to combat this abuse of the rules, and we are more than happy to discuss the introduction of new, targeted measures and instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e139	I just want to make a few words in the debate. My starting point is that I believe this in the Chamber is quite a consensus that when you pick up a spouse from Norway, you have to be able to take care of the person financially until he gets a job and contributes at all to the Norwegian community. When picking up a spouse, the aim cannot be to be able to rely, as a general rule, on the maintenance of the spouse through public support. Of course there must be some exceptions to this, for example. People who have a long-lasting dissatisfaction. You can't say that it's impossible to find love outside of Europe, even if you live with public welfare. I believe that there should still be a basis for family reunification from that point of view. What's the discussion is more a question of what kind of rules we're going to have to build up during this development. What are the laws and regulations that help people to take care of a spouse in connection with a family start-up? When it comes to the recording from the Right, I have to say that I think it looks very backward in time. It is the story of an applicant who has to a great extent to determine whether a marriage can now be established through family reunification. Of course, it can be a moment, but the most important thing will be what the applicant can expect for the future, not what has been in the past. Then you might say that the past and the future are connected, but in the proposal for a foreign law, we will probably be most concerned about what kind of laws and regulations we think will form the best possible basis for which economic sustainability the applicant will have in the future in relation to family start-ups. I think the most important thing that has been said in the debate so far has been said by the representative Per-Willy Amundsen. He said that it is important for the Progress Party to say that ‘this is one of several proposals that need to be seen in the context’. I fully agree with that. That is why I am pleased with the Committee's position, namely that the proposal is annexed to the protocol, so that we can see it in a broader context. We will have this opportunity to consider the proposal for a new law on foreigners. I have no problem understanding that there are people in Stortinget who are impatient when the bill comes. It's true that it's exposed. It was originally planned to be submitted in December 2006. Then we had the situation in the UDI that made us have to look a little bit more closely at the organisation of the foreign administration. This led us to plan to present the bill in the month of February to March. Now we've had to review it as well, now we're planning to present it in June. I'm going to be careful to guarantee it, but now the entire proposition is done. It is, among other things, to legal review, so that there is every reason to insist that the objective of presenting it in June will be maintained. Then we will have the opportunity to look at this very proposal as one of several proposals that need to be seen in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e154	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e157	First, it's interesting to note that at least we agree on one thing, namely that things have to be seen in the context of the foreign field. It's important. I listened with great interest to the Council of State and the words he came with. I heard a little earlier on Rolf Reikvam and his hardcore attack – as I see it – on the Right, where he really put the broad side to and talked about being ‘irresponsible’ and came up with descriptions that are quite different from those of the Council of State. It's a little hard to realize that these two parties are in the same government, all the time there's a significant difference in the description of this proposal. After all, the Council of State referred to history and the future as a point of appeal in relation to the proposal of the Right and the Progressive Party. So the question is, is there a big disagreement between SV and the Working Party at this point? If so, how will it turn out when the law comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e167	It is probably not a news release to say that the Workers' Party and SV have had a somewhat different view of foreign policy. It can be fully documented by reading the setting of various proposals in the last four years. At the same time, I have had the pleasure of working with, among others. Representative Rolf Reikvam recently. We have systematically worked through the problem after a problem in the whole law on foreigners, and as I said in my introduction, we are almost done with all the conclusions. We're going to make a bill of 600-700 pages in June. We've been working together there, so the government will make a uniform proposal, which the three government parties of course are behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e172	I mentioned in my post that one of the reasons we promoted this proposal was that the age limit for the prevention of forced marriage had come up in the media. The Women's and Gender Research Centres at the University of Oslo, following a mandate from the Ministry of Children's and Gender Equality, carried out a survey of compulsive marriage cases in the auxiliaries, and the report was published on 19 February this year. We have little research in this field, but the more research we have, the more knowledge and certainty we have, the better decisions we can make. Will the Council of State familiarise itself with this research report and base it on it before we take the debate on new foreign law in the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e181	Of course, I am interested in all possible knowledge that could affect complex policy areas. But I think it's also important to say that when we're discussing combating coercion based on the reality we have in Norway, it's demanding to do research, because we have a very young immigrant population. The descendants of the first generation are now aged 12–17 years, i.e. that very many of the descendants now come to an age where marriage becomes probable. It is difficult to research what has happened, because relatively few marriages have been made, but there will be very many marriages in the time to come. Therefore, we will also have to believe and doubt in a political context when planning measures, for example. to combat coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e186	I agree with the government parties and the government council that it makes sense to come back to this topic in connection with the treatment of new foreign law. As fully as I hear the Council of State send signals in relation to just this proposal. And I would like to ask for clarification: is there a need to tighten up the rules on financial claims in relation to family reunification? In case the answer is yes, what is it in today's situation that makes today's demands not strict enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e191	When we do an overall review, we do an overall review. Then we also take an assessment of those questions. After all, the Christian People's Party has found itself in a government that has had entertainment demands – it is not this government that has introduced the requirements, it is the former governments that have made. The Christian People's Party sat well in that government, as far as I understand. It can't be unreasonable that once we've taken over, we're allowed to review them. We may not even agree to go as far as the Christian People's Party was willing to go. Or maybe we're tightening up in some areas. The answer to the overall review comes when we propose a new foreign law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e200	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e205	As my colleague from SV has already pointed out, it is very surprising to us that this proposal is being promoted by the Right. If the proposal had come from the Progress Party, it would have been less surprising, and it would have been consistent with their policies and programmes. When the Right tries to present itself as a liberal and conservative party out there and in the media and at the same time promotes this proposal for the Stortinget – a proposal embraced by the Progress Party – we are very surprised. Basically, I believe that a person who marries should be able to support both himself and his family. But life is not a mathematical problem that with given sizes always gives fixed answers. That's not life. You may get sick, you may be hit by an accident, you may get an istapp in your head as you walk on Karl Johan's street, you may be hit by a car while you go somewhere where you should be safe. So what do you do? Well, then the state of law Norway has a network, a security network, for all people. They say here we make no difference between me and you. Here we're going to make life viable, regardless of skin color, regardless of language, regardless of ethnic background, whether you marry in Thailand, in Alta or in Kosovo. It's pretty unfair if we're going to make different demands for different people. If you marry someone in Alta, it's eelreit, then we're not asking if you've received social support or not. But if you marry in Thailand, we demand that you have not received social support. That principle I can't get into my head. I would very much like to get help from the Right to understand why there is no requirement for Per, who is a social beneficiary and marries one in Alta, while Mona, who is going to marry in Thailand, is being asked not to receive social support. That's what I can't understand, and I'm open to help from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e218	To take the last one first, I think it's quite natural that we have different rules in our society. The fact that we have one system for those living in Norway and another immigration policy system should not be so difficult to understand. But when I asked for the word for a three-minute term, it was to SV, who was so startled by my argument, who was going to hit the entire Norwegian population. The main thing was to set an age limit. An age limit in the law will affect the entire Norwegian population. But those who are challenged in relation to coercion are not the entire Norwegian population. They're groups, we know that very well. We want targeted measures in relation to coercive measures. We don't want to introduce negative changes to the law we already have. We do not want to reduce the individual's freedom in this area. However, we clearly need to have more targeted measures in relation to coerciveness, and there should be measures aimed at the group in the risk zone. I record that SV is not concerned with the belief in the individual's freedom and responsibility. However, it is not unknown that SV places the state in the highest-ranking position more than the consideration of individuals or local freedom of action. There's a lot of examples of that. I recall in this case that, according to international agreements, all refugees and asylum seekers are entitled to family reunification. So our proposal has an effect on groups beyond these two. Otherwise, I would like to say to the post from Bjørg Tørersdal and the Christian People's Party that it may be tempting to use images and single events. But I really believe that we cannot build the policy on single cases and individual cases, which could be a good idea to launch in a debate. Every society must have frameworks, structures, laws and regulations — and borders. We have to have that in this area, on the same line as for schoolchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e231	Now, on a number of occasions, I have listened to the representative, Reikvam, when we have discussed these kinds of things in Stortinget. I should perhaps stop being amazed. But it's almost incredible to listen to how SV manages to place himself as the only moral, high-ranking party on the Stortinget. When you listen to SV, it sounds like they have a kind of patent on the term ‘moral’. Of course, it's not like that, rather on the contrary. Describing this proposal as ‘irresponsible’, I think the representative should stick too well to, all the time SV with his rhetoric and with his way of speaking first and foremost, it is the party that most clearly says, almost like a natural truth, that immigrants per. definition is a client. What you do by calling this "irresponsible" and saying that it is creating unnecessary obstacles for immigrants is also indirect to say that immigrants are a group that per. definition depends on public support, depending on external assistance and not being able to stand on its own. But that's rather the opposite that's the point here. Today, the Norwegian system seems to be indifferent to those who migrate to Norway — through public benefits, through social welfare schemes, what I call the social-democratic problem. Then you have to do something about it, and maybe give some incentives to the individual person in order to get well integrated into the Norwegian community. This is done not least by making such economic demands in connection with family reunification. It should be obvious, but it's clear that for SV are immigrants per. definition of clients. We do not accept that in the Progress Party. We expect and demand that immigrants be taken seriously. That means you can make demands on them. You can make demands for immigrants equal to all other people in this society. By making demands, people are also taken seriously. Then you might also be able to move on to the big challenge of integrating into Norwegian society. These things are connected, and you have to stop going into the trap of talking about immigrants as clients on any occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e240	Logic isn't always as simple as that. When I hear Kari Lise Holmberg, I am a little surprised. She says that SV “sets the state in the high seat” – that is the words she used – and we reduce the individual’s freedom of action. That was the argument. But this is the exact opposite. When we look at the proposal that lies here, it's not the state in the high seat, but it's limiting the individual's freedom of action. We are aware of certain requirements – dear, dear – that is not what we are discussing, but the question of whether we should tighten up in relation to today’s rules. When the Right tightens in relation to today's rules, what does that mean? Well, that means that the individual's freedom of action is reduced. So I don't understand the logic. Insofar as there is any logic, there must be someone who must try to explain this to me, for this is the very opposite of the individual's freedom of action. This is to limit the individual’s freedom of action and make it more difficult to achieve family reunification in cases where you need it. So to the rhetoric of the Progress Party that we don't make demands on immigrants. We make exactly the same demands for all parts of the Norwegian population. Immigrants, like the rest of the Norwegian people, should have exactly the same requirements, and they should have exactly the same rights. It is a fundamental human vision that lies behind such a policy. We are proud that we have that human vision, and that is what governs the political choices that we make. The tightening and the constraint that lies here, we don't go too far. We believe that we must also discuss today's demands, whether they are too strict. We're willing to discuss it, but we're not challenging it right now. We are waiting until we have had a dialogue with the Labour Party and the Centre in connection with the new Foreign Affairs Act, and we are going to take all these debates in this regard. So that's where we shoot nothing, and we don't see any reason now to shoot a tightening, which the Right adds up to. The main principle, the main idea behind our policy towards immigrants, is that everyone should be treated equally, that one should not have separate rules for different groups, as the right here now sketches, that there must be self-regulation for some groups and then other rules for other groups. All groups shall be treated equally and have the same opportunities and shall face exactly the same challenges. That is the starting point for our policies and what governs what we think about immigration also in the context of the new Foreign Affairs Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e247	I agree that the Foreign Affairs Act is, by its very nature, discriminatory. That's the way it should be, we can't do anything about it. But what we're talking about here is not foreigners. We're talking about Norwegian citizens. The progress party is trying to make this an immigration debate, and I'm going to try to tell you that it's not an immigration debate. Here we are talking about Norwegian citizens. At the same time, I want to say that SV doesn't make the immigrants clients, it's the Progress Party that is trying to do it in its little world. I take an example: Nina Kristin Hadeland works at Rimi, has 300,000 kroner in income, everything's going well, she can marry whoever she wants, wherever she wants. Suddenly she is struck by an accident and loses her working capacity. She is now becoming a social worker and, unfortunately, must also receive social support. Then she has the following situation: If she now wants to marry Per from Alta, the Progress Party and the Right – initially Right, don't forget – says that it's all right, no problem, you can get married, we'll take care of you. The security network is present, the Norwegian legal State shall set up. But if this girl, Nina Kristin Hadeland, now finds out that she's happy in Wang from Thailand, we say, no, that's not possible. Then we say no. You can marry Per from Alta, we don't have any problems with that, but with Wang from Thailand, there's a new code. I want an answer to that. There is no immigration debate; there is no clientisation of immigrants. Here we are talking about Nina Kristin Hadeland, and here we are talking about the legal state of Norway, which is going to stand up for everyone – alike. I am still open to hear a good answer from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e253	The right is concerned with the certainty of the results, that the restrictions imposed by the law affect those they are intended to encroach on, and that decisions and laws work as they should. That's exactly why I have given some examples in my article of how the Right's proposal could affect family start-ups, the collection of spouses and the reunification of children. My intention was to show that the proposal is not accurate, precisely because it affects people that I am convinced that the Right had not intended to hit. That is why it is not an accurate proposal. It primarily affects people in a special economic situation. So to the Council's response to my reply. Yes, the Christian People's Party participated in making financial demands for family start-up and reunification. The Christian People's Party sees no reason to tighten it up now, and fortunately it sounds as if the Council of State and the Government can consider ease of demands, and it's a signal Christian People's Party is pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e260	First of all, I think there is reason to rejoice at the day we are going to debate the Foreign Affairs Act – it can be a fresh, exciting and polite debate! I only have a few small comments, which are primarily meant to be an attempt to clarify some facts. First a small clarification to the representative Holmberg: Once refugee status has been granted, and that is the basis for staying in Norway, you are not covered by the maintenance requirement. But you can come here as an asylum seeker and stay on a humanitarian basis, and you are covered by the maintenance requirement. So a few considerations about what the entertainment requirement is, because it's very much discussed here in connection with marriage. However, there is reason to stress that there is a general maintenance requirement, in the sense that it can equally fully cover, for example: a family that wants a mother living abroad to come and live with the family in Norway. If you are applying for family reunification on that basis, it is also a maintenance requirement. It may also include children, i.e. having children abroad and wanting family reunification in Norway. This will also be covered by the maintenance requirement. So to me, it's very important to stress that this is not a question of who you can marry. You can freely marry wherever you want, but what this regulates is the question of foreign access to the empire, a set of rules and conditions in that context. Then we have a foreign law that means that moving from Alta to Oslo is not regulated at all in Norwegian law, there is free movement within the country's borders. But it is not free for foreigners to go to Norway. It is regulated by a comprehensive law, the maintenance requirement of which is one of the conditions. So it has nothing to do with marriage like that, but it has to do with what kind of basis foreigners are given access to the realm. One might like to discuss whether the maintenance requirement is the right condition for foreigners to access the empire, but it is wrong to attach it to the right to marry wherever you want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e267	Kari Lise Holmberg has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e270	I can reassure Rolf Reikvam that the policy and our arguments are interrelated, both on the issue of age limits and on the issue of stricter conditions for family reunification. For us, freedom under responsibility is fundamental. We do not want to reduce freedom in relation to the age limit, but we believe, in fact, that making more stringent demands on people is also giving them freedom under responsibility. Our proposal will be motivating in terms of looking for work, working and self-sustaining to support the family here in Norway. So we don't want to clientize, we want to work actively to get clients out of a situation that's passivating and over into activity. So it's a basic positive view. But, of course, some people will have problems achieving the objective. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] Then I just have to put Akhtar Chaudhry on a little visit. Of course, this is also immigration policy and integration policy, and I am concerned if the SV and the government parties do not agree on it. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e279	What surprises me in this debate is that the representatives of both the Christian People's Party, SV and the Workers' Party are up here and are making it almost an unreasonable requirement to expect people of working age – healthy, up - to take up their jobs. It is produced almost as if there is a cynical requirement Right-wing promotes in this proposal. That's not it. Having expectations for people, making demands for people, is the true opposite. It gives them recognition that they have something to contribute to society. And then the claim is made as if we were unreasonable. So to Rikvam, who in many contexts is concerned with the principles and logic of politics. The most surprising play in this way is Reikham’s statement today that for them it is a fundamental principle that everyone should be treated equally – in a context in which one discusses integration policy. In this way, I would like to congratulate Mr Requam on the transition to the integration policy of the Progress Party, because, as I know the political landscape in Norway, only one party has it as a guiding principle in its integration policy, and that is the Progress Party. Our starting point is that in order to succeed in integration policy, a different policy must be pursued in relation to the positive instruments: integration offers, Norwegian training, training in Norwegian regulations, training in the functioning of Norwegian society, support schemes at the beginning, and, on the other hand, clear requirements that actually go beyond the general requirements of people who are already nationals of this country. For example, it's coming. In order to establish a family with non-residents in the country, one must be able to demonstrate that one is able to support them. The policy advocated by Reikvam, namely equal requirements for all in any case and disregarding the difference initially, is a type of integration policy, which has failed altogether, for example. France. So for the notion that it should be so unreasonable to make other demands to a person who wants to marry someone living in Alta than to someone who wants to marry someone who lives outside the EEA area, for example. the requirement not to have received social assistance or government benefits in the last year. It's completely unreasonable to say that there's no difference. Those who come from the EEA area are part of the same social system that we have, covered by the same schemes. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e290	Bjørg Tørresdal has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 60 seconds!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e293	That's a short comment. For the Christian People's Party, it is not about whether we should make demands on people or not, because we should. But it's about something completely different: one should limit the rights of some people for economic reasons. If there is a need for help, such as housing, should one then have limited rights? Therefore, on the basis of the limitation of the rights of individuals, the Christian People's Party is negative to the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e300	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e308	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e316	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests that the conditions for family reunification/reunification be changed with the following starting point:The applicant for family reunification/establishment shall not receive social or other municipal financial support one year before the application.The applicant for family reunification/establishment shall not have received state or municipal housing support one year before the application.The applicant for family reunification/establishment shall demonstrate that he/she can actually support himself/her spouse. Exclusions are undermined.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27.ana.ud1361e365	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
