ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e38	The representative, Gunvor Eldegard, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The representative, Mr Sahl, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e46	I am delighted to promote a representative proposal from Dagfinn Høybråten, Dagrun Eriksen, Ingreig S. Sørfonn and myself on reinforced efforts and increased focus on racial protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e51	The representative, Bent Höie, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e54	On behalf of Ivar Kristiansen, Kari Lise Holmberg, Torbjørn Hansen and myself, I would like to propose the removal of the possibility of promoting opposition to matters decided in the County Agricultural Boards.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e59	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e73	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e82	Document No 8:17 proposal from the Progress Party to its members in the industry fraction, on measures to increase competition in the dairy sector, is rejected by the Government Party. Here I want to give our reason for it, and I expect the proposers and the minority to present their argument. The proposal for a representative is twofold. They want to create a new market organisation for milk, where Tine is not to deal with the market regime. They also want a proper separation between Tine Rawres and Tine Industry. The suggestions are so generous that it is most unlikely to take them seriously. The market regime introduced by Bondevik in 2004 has been passed on under the current government. She was attached after extensive distributions and hearings from all parties. A thorough work was carried out both from ECON and from the Norwegian Institute for Agricultural Research before the decision was taken. Even when it comes to this document that we are dealing with here today, there have been a lot of people listening. None of these wanted Tine to be deterred from the role of market regulator; on the contrary, they stressed the importance of Tine having that task. It becomes a paradox for me when the proposers want a new independent selection to take care of this role, when the change is always too many bureaucratic regulations and people before agriculture. The core of the conflict is the taxation and return on capital of the Tine cooperative. Cooperative enterprises have return requirements other than commercial enterprises. It is a well-known matter that Tine has to have an overcapacity in her facilities to receive milk when competitors take weekends or Easter holidays. Kua milks as known seven days a week. This is a disadvantage for which heights must be taken. Cooperation also has other agricultural policy elements. There is security and stability for farmers and consumers using this model. They have an obligation to collect and supply throughout the country at similar prices. The review that has been done by Tine Råvare and Tine Industrie as a recipient and further processing in line with the competitors has never uncovered cross-subsidies or other rulebreaks. The claims are unfounded. On the contrary, there is much to suggest that the business concept of competitors has far more points to put the finger on, cf. reports on missing financial management and other missing data that have been identified recently. We're all very busy getting to a clarification when it comes to the question of valuation. In the letter to the Committee on this matter, the Council of State expresses the same thing. The problem has been that one has not been able to find the skills needed, including: because everyone has had a role, either in Tine or in a competitor. I would like to stress that in the Labour Party we are looking forward to the completion of the taxing process, and that we can find peace in the future in the milk sector. Both Tine and private actors will be interested in this. Everyone needs to focus more on the day-to-day operation rather than living a life in the justice system and uncertain. The challenges are much greater than what this is all about. International groups, as Tine reads, are leading the Norwegian market, would like to be drawn from the proposers and others to split up our large dairy cooperative. The government party put its foot down for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e105	First, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party has promoted either alone or with other parties. As far as the rapporteur's comments are concerned, I would just like to say that I think it is impressive that the rapporteur has come to the conclusion that the cow is milking seven days a week. We have sometimes heard that from the rapporteur in this matter. In addition to that, I find no reason to comment on the statements made by the rapporteur, many on a failed basis, on the proposals made by the proposers. Although it is still early in the debate, I think I should start by concluding. After the debate today, we are left with the following results: The majority are not willing to contribute to increased competition in the dairy sector. The majority are not willing to contribute solutions that can provide the Q meieries and Synnoses Find long-term in operation. The majority are not willing to initiate the rapid and effective taxing of Tine, and the majority do not consider it critical that Tine, as a commercial operator, is also a market regulator. This is a sad day for Norwegian consumers as well as for anyone who knows that competition is bringing the world forward and provides us as consumers better and fairer offers in the store shelves. It must also be a cross-section of mind for the majority that some of the challengers have said that if there are no changes to the framework conditions, they must cease operation. There is reason to ask whether the majority in this case will really return to the time when there was only one major player in the dairy market. There is reason to ask questions about whether the majority really believes that the competition we have had in this area has not led Tine to intensify and improve herself and her products. The answers to these questions should be simple, but there is reason to ask them when you read the majority position. Contributing to competition in this sector, as the majority do, is not the same as contributing to competition. Active action is needed, and instruments need to be adjusted as the situation develops. There has been considerable noise around the framework conditions of the dairy sector for a long time, and companies indicate that this will continue if the Storting does not change part of the framework conditions. Then we continue to stand on the ground resting, and the Stortinget reveals its lack of willingness to contribute to increased competition in this sector. Maybe the majority of people get it the way they want it, that some of the challengers go dolling, so that the market shares of Tine come back to old heights. There is reason to recall that, during the hearing, it became clear that it is soon to light a red light for some of the companies. Sensing The Find has long demanded that Tine be taxed. This has been trained on a political basis by the agricultural authorities, and it is uncertain when such a charging can be carried out. Despite the fact that Synnøve Finden has received support for its views, both from expert investigations and in the legal system, this has not made any particular impression on the agricultural authorities. It has taken an unusually long time for the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to get this taxing going. It is obvious that there are authorities in society competent to carry out such assessments. Since the introduction of the new market organisation in 2004, there has been significant noise around the scheme. It is now time to make changes that improve the scheme. For this reason, the Progress Party has proposed the creation of a new sample to look into the experience gained and to propose adjustments. It is necessary to look at the following aspects: capital base and return requirements for Tine, equivalent geographic arrangements, errors made in the price investigation system, foreseeable taxes and subsidies in the sector, and who should be responsible for the market regulation scheme. I believe that this matter is also tragic for Norwegian farmers. Today Norwegian farmers are completely excluded from the possibility of competing for their products. This is completely contrary to normal business thinking. All producers want more to compete for their products. In this way, producers become strong and can take more out of the market. Instead, Norwegian farmers operate in a monopolistic market, where there is only one buyer for their milk and even a government price. This is a completely socialist, pervasive system, which does not belong in a modern society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e126	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has addressed the proposals No. 1 to 6 in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e129	Agriculture is the most political industry in Norway, and in the agricultural sector the milk sector is the most political of them all. The dairy farmers have a consistently perhaps socialist but absolutely solidarity system, in the sense that the milk price to the producer is equal to everyone, regardless of where in the country production takes place and regardless of the extent. Milk producers have parked the usual market laws that would have favored large volumes and proximity to the markets. This solution is not in line with the ideology of the right forces. That is why we are now spending time on this matter. The right side, as I see it now, will use new millions of dollars on Synnovene Find and the Q-meieries, the so-called independent actors, to keep abreast of a distorted competition strategy – so there are companies that are unable to compete against Tine. That is why I would like to repeat what the rapporteur said, that none of the hearing bodies wants to take the role of market regulator from Tine. Of the parties, it's just the Progress Party that thinks it would have been tricked. Because the Right Party also sees that it is beneficial that there is one actor who has an overview of production and needs – or supply and demand, if you want. It makes me both happy and relieved. How could we have defended that dairy cars had gone in several parallel races along our roads? The fact that there is one actor with such an overview and control is not unusual in our country either. We see the same thing, for example. in the case of power supply. There is also a kind of parallel in the fisheries, where the raw fish layer has a very central role. The forwarding party does not trust that the milk price from Tine Raåware to the competitor is correct. I have noted that. Here SV would say that we agree with the rapporteur’s presentation, and that otherwise we have full confidence that the Minister of Agriculture and Food will deal with this issue in a good way and in the best interests of the country. I would argue that today's Tine is both competitive and provides a selection and a quality that all the batches want – and that all the consumers want. We have a collective owned company that competes out of those who have now had ten years to win the market and the customers. I can see that this destroys the mood of those who believe in the excellence of competition. Therefore, it must be allowed to say that this has been a costly experiment, in which State aid in the million-dollar class has been able to sustain competition for these so-called independent players. What we're seeing now is that the economic weight laws apply. It is also the story of what long experience, competence and solidarity can bring about results. Tine as a big actor has been through tough thanks. There have been closures of installations and streamlining, and there have been noise and heavy rounds too many. They have also had to look at the attachment on the bottom line. But it has resulted in an effective, solid organisation working for the benefit of the Norwegian consumer and the farmer. Competition in the dairy sector can, in my view, be cancelled. We have a winner. SV supports the position of the majority, which is that we reject the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e148	The size decided almost ten years ago to facilitate competition in the processing of dairy products. This has taken several private actors seriously and has taken into account significant investments and the establishment of dairy activities in Norway. I believe that the Stortinget made a good decision almost ten years ago. There is little doubt that competition in the dairy sector is a good thing – both for farmers, for industry and for consumers. Milk producers are being given increased competition for the processing of the raw materials they produce and increased efforts are being made to promote and sell dairy products. The monopolist Tine is having competition and thus pressure to reduce costs and increase the pace of innovation. Domestic competition improves Tine’s ability to face future competition from foreign and heavier players in the dairy sector in Europe. Of course, for consumers it is obvious that there are alternatives to choose from. It provides greater diversity, better quality and lower prices. Competition in the dairy sector is thus like a cheek egg: three good things at once. The background to the proposal we are examining today is the desire to create more equivalent conditions of competition in the dairy sector. This is a wish and a goal that the Right supports 100 pst. When we do not support the proposal to deprive Tine of its role as market regulator, it is because this is unnecessary to achieve a level playing field in the dairy sector. The milk market regime is one of the foundations for milk production in Norway as it is currently taking place. It is technically possible to organise a market organisation outside the Tine system. In my opinion, however, this is not a rational economic approach, because the use of facilities and infrastructure is reduced. It is appropriate to achieve equivalent conditions of competition in the dairy sector and to modernise agricultural policy without removing the market organisation for milk. It is gratifying that an overall committee determines that there is still an objective of facilitating competition in the dairy sector. It gives a spark of hope to those actors who trusted in the Storting decision ten years ago. Unfortunately, it is not the tone of the statements from the case rapporteur and the representative from SV along the same lines, and it shows some of the double communication that has been in this matter. So the main thrust of the decision 10 years ago is not met. There are obvious errors and shortcomings in the regulatory framework surrounding the competitive situation of milk. Firstly, Tine has an entirely dominant market position. There is hardly any industry in the country where an actor has such a dominant market position. Therefore, the right considers that the accounting distinction between Tine Råvare and Tine Industrie is not good enough to ensure economic independence between Tine as a market regulator and Tine as a competitor of the independent operators. That is why we propose in the setting an ownership distinction between Tine Industrie and Tine Roåvare. The division of activities on an own-account basis must take place in a manner which safeguards the economic interests of farmers, including as owners of market-regulatory activities. However, the main problem for competition in the dairy sector is that the milk market organisation systematically discriminates against independent operators in favour of the largest operator, Tine. The market system is a complex economic system, and unfortunately, the details of this system largely determine the profitability of both Tine and independent dairy operators – Synnoble Find and Q dairies. In this context, a number of professional investigations have been very categorical in nature to establish that there is serious and systematic economic discrimination between independent operators. Last November, ECON and an expert group composed of economists from both the BI and the Norwegian Higher School of Commerce presented thorough investigations into the conditions of competition in the dairy sector. A number of obvious errors in the market organisation were then identified. All the mistakes are in Tine's favor. So it is in the favour of the monopolist. It says a little about the Government's attitude in this matter when these investigations are met with a somewhat cryptic press release from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, where the Council of State states that this is a known substance. One of the most serious weaknesses of the system is that Tine has not been taxed. The setting of capital costs in the market organisation for milk is essential in order to give independent operators a level playing field. The evaluation of Tine was to be completed last autumn. As far as I am aware, the valuation work is still not started. Here, there is reason to question the credibility of the Government and the alleged wish of the government parties for competition in the dairy sector. It is claimed that taxiing is a complicated job. This is very little credible. Hundreds of companies in Norway are valued every year, and valuation is a significant profession both in the financial market, in the consulting industry and in the taxiing industry. It is doubtful that if the will had been present, the value of Tine would have been fixed long ago. In any case, many market organisation errors have been identified that could have been corrected quickly and easily by the Government and had the will to be present, this problem would have been solved. I believe that the management of competition in the dairy sector is a sad chapter of business and competition policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e180	The Christian People's Party's view of the proposals of the Progress Party on more effective competition in the dairy sector can briefly be presented as follows: the concrete proposals should be taken into account quickly, but the issue itself is important to address. There is hardly anyone in political life, except the Progress Party, and hardly anyone in the industry who has any particular faith in transferring responsibility for market regulation from Tine to a new public actor – an actor who is not at the same time going to run a production business. All of them, most of them are certain that market regulation is necessary in order to achieve the policy objectives that farming is a key instrument for achieving. A system in which market regulation is not implemented by the market participant who has desidered the best market transparency and control of most of the volume of production is likely to be more expensive, both for society and for taxpayers. The extra stock is the Progress Party alone to enter for. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to stress: we are some of the targets of effective competition in the dairy sector, but we are at least the same – yes, even more – concerned with the objective of facilitating agricultural activity throughout the country, primarily because of the importance of the industry as an engine for living rural communities. The cooperative model has been a column for securing this. We don't want to weaken this model, either with small or large steps. However, in a system of Tine as a dominant player and market manager, we understand that the question of whether Tine's business is to make a good enough distinction between business and regulatory, or whether they use market power and a complex and detailed pricing system to push small operators. Regardless of whether Tine is actually trying to do this or not, it will be easy to raise suspicions about it and thus create a germ for the ongoing concern about the use of drugs. Therefore, the Christian People's Party trusts that the Ministry of Agriculture will carry out the alerting taxing of Tine as soon as possible. Of course, a statement is that the work provides as detailed transparency as the further use of the result requires. We trust that the Minister of Agriculture wants the same thing, and therefore find no reason to impose this on him by means of an own proposal. The Christian People's Party also believes that it would have been in place with a new review of the competitive situation, not least in view of the debate on conversion support for independent actors. In the budget debate in the fall, we were together with the other opposition parties on such a proposal, and it was time for the revised national budget this year. We believe that the government had made good sense to follow this advice. Let me make it clear that for the Christian People's Party, the premise in this was the one that was presented, important, simply that they oversee the objectives of agricultural policy. When our colleagues in the opposition now re-produce this proposal, but have omitted this important premise, we cannot be part of the motion for a resolution. We conclude, in the same way as the Government Party and the Left, that the proposal from the Advance Party is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e199	I am pleased that a large majority in the UK once again places the Progress Party where they should be, alone and abandoned, on issues that are important for Norwegian agricultural policy. None of the hearing bodies supports the proposal of the Progress Party to deprive Tine of its role as market regulator. That even the companies that the Progress Party says they support cannot find some sense in this proposal of the Progress Party, prove and underline the isolation. And that's good. It is good because it shows again that the Norwegian Agriculture Medicine of the Progress Party is not seen by the commercial actors as a useful policy for the Norwegian society as a whole. The work of the Progress Party in the United Kingdom shows that it is not the fight for competition or for the interests of consumers that are the most important for this party, nor the fight for better conditions for some farms in the agri-food industry. No, the main objective of the Progress Party is the fight against Norwegian agriculture, against Norwegian farmers and against Norwegian agricultural cooperative organisation. It's gone again, and if I'm not wrong, it's still going to happen when it comes to the Progress Party's policy. Almost all policies are about balances between different objectives and considerations, and one has to deal with target conflicts. Of course, agricultural policy is no exception here. It's basic ABC that it's and can be target conflicts. The majority wanted ten years ago not only competition in the dairy sector, overall all other considerations. In that case, it would be very easy to follow up. The starting point was that the Storting wanted to facilitate increased competition. The objective of competition on open and comparable, as well as the same, conditions were added to the other objectives of agricultural policy. The size did not agree to any other changes in light of it. The objectives of, inter alia: maintaining production, the environment, agriculture throughout the country — rural policy — and income development for farmers continued. The objective of facilitating increased competition in the dairy sector was thus an objective in addition to the other objectives. We have approx. 4 000 cooperatives in Norway, virtually all kinds of industries. Some are large, and some are small. We have a lot in consumer cooperation, we have a lot in agriculture, in forest co-operation, in meat co-operation and in inputs. We have major dairy cooperatives in our neighboring country. Danish MD Foods had a share of the raw material of 90 pst. in Denmark before merging with Swedish Arla, who had a share of 65 pst. in Sweden. It was Arla Foods, who also competes in the Norwegian market. The availability of raw materials has been regulated by EU allowances for the same period as in Norway and involves allowances for each country, including Sweden and Denmark. In fact, the import competition is far greater. We have dairy cooperatives in Canada that compete side by side with private ones. In Canada, too, access to commodities is regulated by allowances. In addition, one also has a price equalisation scheme that is in principle the same as the Norwegian one. Then we have to conclude that for no other cooperative in Norway or for any other daring cooperative in the world, a fundamental question has been raised about the fact that it is not possible to compete with a cooperative without the values and equity of the cooperative being priced on the basis of a market assessment. It is quite specific in this case, and it is very special that there is a basis for a discussion on competition. So we have to accept that there is a difference in the form of ownership of a cooperative and a limited liability company. In a cooperative, member benefits are the target function. Return on capital is not in itself a measure. Security of deliveries may, for example: for most milk producers, much more relevant. The progress batch appears to believe that dairy co-operation should be valued according to an alternative value and the raw material price should be purified for ‘cartonage’. It must mean that the Progress Party believes that the dairy cooperative should be measured after a completely different – and probably narrower – target function than what the owners and members themselves actually have as the target function, i.e. the total benefit. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the members of the Progress Party, reaffirms that increased competition in the milk sector should not lead to a lower producer price. It implies that solutions to the competitive situation in the milk market must ensure the target price of the agricultural agreement and must be understood in such a way that the target price should not be reduced as a result of the organisation of equal conditions of competition at the processing stage. It's important. Equally important is the fact that a majority determines that the market organisation for milk must be designed in such a way that it takes full account of and accepts that cooperatives and capital companies have different objectives for their activities. Cooperation has a broader utility as a goal. A Tine valuation shall be recognised and taken into account. Both Tine’s cooperative organisation and the agricultural policy tasks supported by a majority are part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e225	Competition is an important democratic tool. It guarantees citizens freedom of choice and ensures greater transparency and transparency in otherwise closed processes. It has therefore been important and right that there has been real competition in all important dairy products in recent years. The question is whether there is a need for further measures to increase competition. For the Left, it is important to ensure that the competition currently established is continued both through economic instruments, where necessary, and through a good regulatory framework with which the actors have confidence. That is why, together with the Right and the Advance Party of the Government, we are asking the Government to present a fresh assessment of the competition situation in the dairy sector in the context of the revised national budget, which will be forthcoming in a short time. In particular, it is important to consider whether there is a need to improve the conditions. There is no doubt that the establishment of competition in an area where it has been a monopoly situation for decades takes time, and it is undoubtedly demanding for the competitor. It is also obvious that a monopolist has had the advantages of building up without competition and adapting to future competition. Therefore, the Left considers that it is right for economic benefits to be granted during a transitional period to those actors who do the difficult job of providing competition against an established monopolist. In this case, it is not least the case for the Q dairies, which have challenged Tine's monopoly in the area of human milk. I am thinking here of both the special capital compensation scheme and the supplementary distribution grant scheme. In total, this amounts to a relatively large sum, possibly between 30 and 40 million. kr for one year only. When some, whether actors or politicians, invoke equality, it is important not to forget that precisely such specific arrangements exist and appear to be absolutely necessary in the coming years as well. The setting of capital costs in the market organisation for milk is complex and complex. What one must not forget in that context is the difference between the expected return on capital of a limited liability company and a cooperative entity. An in-depth investigation and extensive consultations were carried out with the previous government before a final regulation on the new organisation of the market with effect from 2004. The left considers that only Tine is able to be an effective market regulator in today's system. Some claim that this is an advantage for Tine, but that advantage can be an absolute question mark for all the time Tine himself has on several occasions expressed the desire to withdraw from the role of market regulator. The problem is that the market organisation for milk is very complicated and there is a lack of trust in the system by operators and many others. Therefore, the Left considers it important to carry out an ongoing assessment of the scheme and that the Government returns to the Grand Duchy with its assessment in the revised budget. It is important that one is not only concerned in principle with competition in the agricultural sector but also shows it in practice. Several recent cases show that the government is double-communicating in that very area. I cannot go into the different individual issues, but I still want to mention one. It is the management of the Q-meierien request for conversion aid to Gausdalmeieriet during the spring and summer of 2006. My claim is that had the will to be present, one had found a solution. Instead, at the time of the application, the government chose to owe it first, and then to send the application to Innovation Norway with the obvious knowledge that it would not. This is also confirmed in a letter from the Council of State dated 20 November last year dated to Lars Sponheim, where it appears that the Council of State and the Department have almost been a dispatch office for the application without any intention to enter into the facts of the case. If lasting competition is to succeed in the milk sector too, the political signals that illustrate the will are crucial. Here it is important that the Government does not send the wrong signals. Therefore, it is of fundamental importance that the Government carry out an assessment of the scheme and propose the necessary changes to ensure the sustainability of the scheme over time, and thus also provide the necessary confidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e251	I am pleased that the Stortinget seems to reject the proposal of the Progress Party to turn its back on Norwegian agricultural policy by depriving Tine of its role as market regulator and reducing another sample to investigate general conditions within the market organisation for milk. As the opinion shows, none of the Hearing Officers supported the proposal of the Advance Party to deprive Tine of its role as market regulator. That even the players of the Progress Party themselves say they want to support, do not agree with this proposal, I think the Progress Party should notice. Then I must also say that I also do not recognize the Progress Party's traditional rhetoric when the consequences of their proposals are: multiple sample surveys and, in particular, several tasks added to the country That's the need for the opposite I think to hear from the Progress Party in other contexts. In practice, the only option for Tine to be a market regulator is for the State itself to take on this task. In this case, it is the first time that I have experienced that the Progress Party is for the State to take on more business regulation tasks, leading to increased administrative costs and more employees in the agricultural bureaucracy. The objective of market regulation is to ensure a stable provision and price for the farmer and the consumer. As a result of market regulation, agricultural industries have taken responsibility for any overproduction, and cooperatives are entrusted with the task of market regulation in order to implement it. It is because Tine has this market-regulatory role that the State can impose Tine's reception and supply obligations, which are a very central condition for us to have competition in the dairy sector. The comprehensive universal service obligation is essential to ensure good access to raw material for competitors. Without the milk as Tine’s obligation to deliver to its competitors, it has not been given that, for example: Sensation Find could produce and sell the number of kilos of cheese they do today. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee confirms the objective of facilitating competition in the processing of milk products. At the same time, it is important, as the Committee points out, that this must be carried out within an agricultural policy framework. The Committee confirms what has been said in the past that facilitating competition at the processing stage should not be at the expense of the farmer and the prices at which the farmer is to live. In other words, the competition at the processing stage shall not go beyond the agricultural policy objectives or the income of the farmer. I have noticed in particular that a majority in the Committee emphasises that companies and cooperatives are different types of companies. In agricultural policy, cooperatives are a central instrument because they have broad member benefits as their objective, as opposed to the demands of limited liability companies for the highest possible return on invested capital. Tine has been entrusted with important social tasks through agricultural policy, and the ownership of the company gives a different profile of the returns the owners expect from the company. This is also commented on in the Proposition on the Law on Cooperative Enterprises, which the Storting is now dealing with. The milk sector depends on continued sustainable competition based on an administratively sound system. I can assure you that I am continuing to facilitate competition on equal terms in the milk market. However, I am not concerned with using more resources for general investigations, as the Progress Party wants, but emphasises that the Government is constantly working on measures to improve the market organisation for milk. Also, of the last post here now, a few impressions could be that nothing was done in this area. In this way, I can refer to what Stortinget has already been informed about, namely that the distribution and input subsidies in the price equalisation scheme are now being reviewed by a group of parties. This group has a deadline of 15 March, i.e. next week. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food is also working on conducting a comprehensive and independent valuation of Tine, as mentioned in St.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007. As is known, the previous bidding round is not completed. It's important in this context that we get the best professionals to do the job. I therefore propose that the call for tenders do not limit the scope of the competent professional environments that can deliver offers. I propose to publish a mission across the EEA area, without imposing any restrictions on who can deliver the offer. A majority of the Committee considers that the market organisation for milk must be designed in such a way as to take into account the different objectives of cooperatives and limited liability companies. It is therefore essential that Tine’s interoperability and agricultural policy tasks are taken into account in the valuation to be carried out. A valuation of Tine as if Tine had been a limited liability company will have limited value for the further design of the regulations in this area. In other words, we need to take account of agricultural policy, which has been agreed on in general terms, when we are going to make value assessments of Tine. It is important that we continue to work to ensure predictability and calm in the milk market in the future. It will be an important and necessary contribution to the development of agriculture in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e290	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e293	There has been considerable noise around the dairy market arrangements in the last year, and my opinion is that this has also contributed greatly to the Council of State and the Ministry of Agriculture. We have the well-known case where a bureaucrat in the Ministry of Agriculture promised the Q-meierien conversion aid. There was a lack of communication from the Ministry of Agriculture when it came to that matter. There, the Ministry of Agriculture contributed to ambiguities rather than to clearing up. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture has not been able to implement the Tine taxing, which has been promised for a very long time. So my question to the Council of State is: will he now contribute to subduing this noise by e.g. now in the spring to implement the taxiing of Tine that he has promised?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e300	I think there were two unusually bad examples that the representative Kielland Asmyhr here points out in terms of not wanting to have competition in the milk market. As regards the relationship with the Q-meieries and the application to which it was referred, it was – as I have informed the Stortinget about countless times before – invited to send an application. The application did not come, and then it was not possible to do anything about this matter in the context of the revised national budget last year. As regards the question of Tine’s valuation, a round was launched last year. There were two current applicants who were both considered not to be involved because of ties to market players. I believe that the Advance Party also agrees that it would not be appropriate to start such a valuation when there was uncertainty about the basis for the candidates who might have done the job. We now work – and are in the interview – with test number. two more to get this. My intention is definitely to get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e309	I would like to follow up the Government's response to the representative Asmyhr's question about the application from the Q-meieriums for conversion aid. The Council of State stated that no application was made within the revised budget in 2006, and therefore it was not possible for the Government to provide the type of support promised by the Q-meierines. That's a very strange reason, because you treat the budget every six months. The budget is dealt with in the autumn and subsequently revised, and it is easy to put in the kind of support if there is a political will to do so. Now there was an application from the Q-meieriums after the revised budget had been submitted, which the Council of State received on its table. What makes it impossible for the Government to deal with such an application in good time before the State budget and to grant it, if it is such that it wishes to provide that type of support to the Q dairies?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e316	I don't think I need to elaborate on the evaluations of those applications more than what I've done in Stortinget emphatic times before. If that is the main point of opposition to the management of competition by the Government in the milk market, at least I am relatively little concerned. We had a situation in connection with this application, as I have said eloquently, and it was a process in which the Q dairies were invited to submit an application in connection with the spring budgetary process last year. It wasn't done. When the Q dairies chose not to do so, there is an assessment and a conclusion that they made. I have no comment beyond that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e321	The previous Government tried in various ways to facilitate increased value creation and stimulated it through simplification of legislation and regulations, thus stimulating entrepreneurial activity. A successful response was, among other things: opening to produce cheese from own milk beyond the quota set. Should such a producer now produce more cheese, he must buy the milk from Tine. Can the Council of State envisage further developing this successful scheme so that, for example: in addition, can a cheese producer buy milk from a neighbour, in addition to the quota, so that it may eventually become a small farm in rural areas, just based on such agricultural products? Otherwise, it's interesting to notice posts on the part of government parties. SV’s articles must be clearly seen as not seeking competition in the dairy sector. Then my question is: does the Council of State take away the signals from its government partner that there is no desire for competition in the milk sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e328	I can repeat what I said in my post, and as I think I have said in Stortinget a few times earlier, that ensuring good competition in the milk market is the ambition of the Government. We're working on it. We have also continued the actions undertaken by previous governments in this area. In contrast to what one might have the impression in some debates in Stortinget, we have not taken any reverse measures to reduce competition in the milk market. So we're going to have a healthy and good competition in the milk market. I can assure the representative of Kongshaug of that. With regard to the issue of quotas for entrepreneurs in cheese production, etc., I believe we have seen many good examples of how this type of action has worked. At the same time, there is a balance between the overall quota system and the extent to which one makes a derogation in the scheme, which can help create problems for the overall solution to the quota system. There are considerations that need to be weighed. But the measures that have been put in place, I believe, have had a positive effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e335	I could imagine hearing if the council believes that the Q-meierines and Synnove Find has a positive function in the dairy market, or if it's just Tine for all the money, that it's Tine that's going to be the big driving force in the dairy market. In addition, I could imagine asking the dairy farmer Riis-Johansen whether he believes that the farmers can also be served that there may be several actors who want to be the buyer of the products produced by the farmers, or whether the farmers are served with a monopoly state where there is only one actor interested in their products. It would be interesting to hear the views of the Minister of Agriculture and the farmer Riis-Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e342	The President points out that only Riis-Johansen Council meets here in Stortinget – the dairy farmer does not meet here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e345	I share the full President's opinion on this matter. I think there's a reason to remind the representative Asmyhr that there's probably a somewhat unhealthy manufacturing of purchasing/monopolist issues that comes out here. A large proportion of dairy farmers in Norway have chosen to organise themselves in a cooperative in order to be strong in the further processing of their products. This isn't something that's been pushed on anyone. It's something that's grown up on the basis of a wish from the farmers themselves. As for the relationship with the Q dairies and Synnove Find, I only have one answer to that: I want competition in the milk market. I think it's good that we have actors like the Q-meierien and Synnove Finden. The authorities contribute significantly, including: through specific support schemes for the Q dairies, so that the Q dairies can also operate in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e354	In my speech, I was in favour of the proposal on which the Christian People's Party was included in the budget, to ask for a fresh assessment of the competitive situation in the dairy sector, on the basis of which they would be in charge of overseeing the objectives of agricultural policy, and that agricultural cooperation would still have a dominant role in the market. My question to the Council of State is, does he view this as a useful way to go? Does he take this into account in his assessment of a forward-looking trend in agriculture, and might he be willing to bring forward a new case on the assessment of the competitive situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e362	As I said in my post, we have a continuous assessment of the representative Sørfonn here inquire. Like me, among others. referred to in my post, we now have a review of a substantial part of the shipping system within this system. It is just for the time being to look at whether this is something that can be done to improve an important Norwegian milk sector scheme. So I don't see the point of starting a bigger bureaucratic work to do a job that is continually being done in the field by area within this sector. We must contribute to a healthy and competitive environment in this area and continuously evaluate the instruments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e369	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e374	Agricultural market mechanisms shall provide good market service. Food is basic good, and milk and milk products are an essential part. It is good that we have a debate on central arrangements in agricultural policy. This is important for both consumers and farmers, and I would like to stress that this must not be left to closed processes. As far as I am concerned, I am pleased that the Progress Party is engaged in the milk market, but I am even more pleased that the Progress Party's proposal is clearly rejected. In dealing with this matter, it is again confirmed that there is a broad political majority and all the market actors involved, including Synnueve Finden and Q-Meierien, and all organisations, including the National Food Association of the NHO, support the continued role of Tine as market regulator. When we have a system of customs protection, maximum prices of milk as the target price set by Stortinget, and that the farmer pays the market regulation through a sales tax, no one else can be responsible for market regulation other than Tine. It's not a question of bureaucracy. It's not a question of other interests. It's simply a question of pure logic. I am pleased with the setting, where it says that it should be organised for a level playing field at the processing stage without reducing the target price. It also says: ‘The majority indicates that the principle of the price equalisation scheme for differentiated price withdrawals on different dairy products, in order to contribute to the collection of the target price through an administered price estimate from the market regulator, has wide support, provided that it is competitively neutral at the processing stage.’ [[...]] It is extremely important for the formation of farm incomes and is necessary to balance the power of the chains. I hope that everyone involved notices this. Not least for farmers and their organisations, balanced social interests and consumer concerns are crucial. Food is politics. Stable policies require compromises. The proposal has been rejected, supported by the National Association of Food Companies, which is probably historical for the person who has read the history of the Council of Turnover. What is, however, the main question and the essence of the dispute is: Is there competition neutrality in milk processing? That question has not been resolved. It is a historically justified question, which arose in its full weight when the majority of the population decided to have greater competition in the milk market, i.e. some party political decisions in this room created the situation that Tine gained significant overcapacity and thus no value in the facilities that had previously played a role. What is important then is that the Government will return to the Grand Duchy as soon as possible with proposals based on what is now the majority's position, namely that the farmer's milk price should not be reduced as a target price and that we should have competition neutrality at the processing stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e392	There have been three years since the introduction of a new market organisation for milk, and the Stortinge has discussed the scheme at several levels in recent years. For me, it is important to stress that, in large parts of the country, agriculture plays an important role in housing and employment. Today, we have a decentralised agricultural industry with a varied structure of use. This is of great value to our country, and there are values it is important to take care of. In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government Party states that we aim to ensure that active agricultural practitioners have income development and social conditions in line with other groups in society. This is the goal to extend. These are objectives that it is possible to achieve if there is a political will to do so. The representative proposal of the members of the WCC is an attack on one of the pillars of Norwegian agriculture. Without today's market regime, we would have a completely different situation in Norwegian agriculture. Today’s market organisation ensures a balance in the market. In addition, such a mechanism is aimed at stabilising prices and providing a level playing field regardless of geography. Now it is also the case that the market regulator Tine BA has a responsibility to secure raw materials for the industry, and Tine BA also has a duty of reception and responsibility for collection and universal service. Against this background, farmers are guaranteed to have their goods delivered to them and to have access to raw materials to the industry. I would argue that the market regime is one of the most important factors in today's agricultural policy. Removing this instrument also removes the basis for active agriculture throughout the country. If one had left everything to the market, as the Progress Party will, one would have razed Norwegian agriculture, especially in District Norway. This had in the next round gone beyond the construction pattern in Norway, which in the next round would mean moving away from the countryside and growing the cultural landscape. I am pleased that, during the hearing in this case, it appeared unisonously that none of the hearing bodies supported submitted that Tine should no longer have the role of market regulator. There is therefore full agreement among the market and business operators. It underpins my claim that the Progress Party in this matter is completely wild.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e407	I am among those who are pleased that there is such a broad consensus in the Stortinget and in the industry that it is in fact only Tine who can take care of the role of market regulator for milk. That everyone in the industry is so clear about it, I think is a very important signal. It can help to bring peace to the scheme, as it is in our neighbouring countries. I am actually grateful to the proposers for the fact that this matter came up. The review we have had under the committee has been useful and has given insight – and I think it has contributed to a little adult training for both one and the other. I also agree with the statement made by the rapporteur, and will only be supplemented by a few comments. As far as I understand, the normal commercial relations between the actors in the milk sector are, but there is a great deal of disagreement about price. It is important that the price issue is clarified and that the valuation of Tine is carried out so that the conditions in the industry are normalised. I wish it was soon such that the price could be settled through ordinary business procedures – and not in the legal system. I am aware that for various reasons there have been complications in getting the value of Tine started, and that the ministry might need to find competence abroad. I would nevertheless – as strongly as I can – ask the Council of State to give this matter as high a priority as possible. Tine is a cooperative owned by farmers spread across the whole country and has a key role in agricultural policy. There is also an obligation for Tine to have as cost-effective operations and logistics as possible. Only through it are the owners, the dairy farmers, guaranteed the target price achievement foreseen in the agricultural holding. We're going to have competition at the processing stage. I have noticed that Synnove Finden has now published a report on its websites that is a rather crushing judgment about the operation of earlier times. Of course, the competitive situation implies that all actors in this industry must be more competent and operate in a highly professional way – in order to survive in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e429	The issue we are dealing with today is just one of many competition policy issues where you go in the wrong direction. What we're experiencing is that, after the government change, the whole consumer area has gone in the wrong direction. The systematic deterioration we have seen in the field of competition is particularly evident in the agricultural and food sectors. We saw it quite clearly when the government tried the Competition Authority in the matter of the Prior-Norgården purchase. Based on a totally erroneous assessment of the situation in the WTO negotiations, it was hoped that Prior would have a monopoly on eggs. After all, there was no WTO agreement, and we see that the basis for the government’s assessment was incorrect. Then came the review of the Competition Authority in the Gilde-Prior case, which, after Norgården was purchased, has given less diversity to suppliers of meat, chicken and eggs. We have had the matter of importing cheese, where the Competition Authority granted exemptions from the Competition Act in connection with the coverage of customs payments on cheese imports. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food attacked the World Gang Competition Authority — claiming that it had violated the Competition Act. It turned out afterwards that this cheese import had no impact whatsoever on Norwegian farmers’ outlet for milk. The system was thus attacked with great weight both by the Government and by the Bondelag — without any significance for Norwegian agricultural policy. In the State budget, there was a government proposal to tighten up the foreign processing of Norwegian agricultural products — another attempt to prevent competition in food. This was so serious for our trading partners that the government actually drew the proposal and did not implement it as planned. The dairy sector may be the worst. The situation there is becoming a political parody. From the government side and from the government parties, it is claimed that competition is sought in the dairy sector, but nothing is done to achieve it. More than a year and a half have been spent making changes that were announced in the last government budget. The situation surrounding the taxiing of Tine is very low in credibility – based on the claim that you want to compete. It is not possible to claim that it is impossible to obtain a tax on an enterprise in Norway, when we know that hundreds of enterprises are taxed every year, and there are a wide range of professional players who value in different industries. Then it's very little credible that it's impossible to get Tine taxed. Perhaps a little of the cause of this problem will come to light in today's debate, where the majority say that there is a difference between the purpose of the owner of a cooperative and the purpose of the owner of a private enterprise. The owner of a private enterprise wants return on capital, while the owner of a cooperative enterprise has other purposes. After all, there is considerable doubt as to the Government’s willingness to implement this taxing in substance and to adjust the required returns to ensure competition in the dairy sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e446	A number of speakers have tried to make a point in this debate that none of the hearing bodies support the proposal of the Progress Party to remove the Tine Market Regulatory System. I have a great deal of understanding that these agencies do not want to take that fight now, because in this area there are so many fights to be fought, and the challenger of agricultural bureaucracy is going to have a strong back. On this occasion, I would like to refer to the comments of the Advance Party, where we write the following: ‘These members recognise that the time is not ripe to have a majority to withdraw from the Tine Market Regulatory System, even if it is unfair for an operator in the market to have such a role. These members see that the Progress Party is once again early on with a proposal that will have been adopted in a few years’ time.’ It appeared during the consultation that Tine also sees that there are major problems in being a market regulator when they are to act at the same time as a commercial operator in the market. If Synnueve Finden and the Q-meierien were to take even greater market shares, it would be strange if an actor like Tine, who would then be even less than today, would have a public regulatory responsibility in such a market. It is quite clear that if the majority's intention that there should be more competition and that these players should gradually increase their market share, the Progress Party will in a few years' time be entitled to do so. One of the policy roles of the Progress Party is to look at policy areas that are poorly developed, to be at an early stage and to do some new work in policy. We do the same in agricultural policy. For there is one area that needs major reforms, that is agricultural policy. It is regrettable to note that under this government there is no willingness to make any reforms in agricultural policy. The big losers will be the consumers and not least the farmers. We are going to see many examples of this in addition to this, not least in the context of the ongoing WTO negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e460	The reason why I take the floor again is that I want to comment on some of the statements that include: The representative Torbjørn Hansen has joined in the two speeches he has made. He stated that there was serious and systematic discrimination. He derailed the debate by beginning to discuss some other competitive issues that we have discussed earlier in this Chamber. He also tried to suggest that the discussion about the benefits of the member, i.e. the content of the cooperative form, is a derailment in this discussion. I would like to stress the following: it must be accepted that we have different forms of ownership in this country. A new cooperative law has been put forward that underlines this. Also members of the representative Torbjørn Hansen's party are members of cooperative organisations, because they see that it is useful for them to be a member there. It is properly regulated by the law. As for how to tax Tine, I would like to underline the estimate of Tine's alternative value by economists. They have said, of course, that the basic condition is that the objective of the scheme is to promote only socio-economic efficiency and to prevent wasteful use of society's resources. We've heard they said that. But it is at best a significant simplification. The aim has been to facilitate dairy farming outside the cooperative, on a level playing field, while all others have stressed that the other objectives of agriculture should be pursued. It should also be brought with the representative Torbjørn Hansen when discussing this matter. This must be taken into account in a full assessment. One must also appreciate the societal tasks that a person wants to fulfil – which the representative Torbjørn Hansen’s party actually agrees with, for example. related to compulsory reception of milk throughout the country from 16 000 milk producers, related to the cultural landscape, district policy, etc. The economists agree with this, and they also have an answer. Then the other social tasks have to be valued separately, and the dairy co-operation has to be paid for those tasks. In other words, and in principle: first, Tine is to be assessed as something other than what it actually is, and across the objectives and benefits of its members. Then, according to the economists, the company may have to be paid to continue to be what it is, and to take care of what we in the Stortingen have decided to do, i.e. the social tasks. I just want to stress that this must lead to relatively complicated economic assessments, and they are not the jam determined by anyone in this world so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e471	The representative Torbjørn Hansen spoke about consumer policy going in the wrong direction. He did not mention that food has never been cheaper than today and means less than ever. He mentioned the Competition Authority. He mentioned the Competition Authority in connection with what we are now talking about. That's pretty interesting. Because, at the same time as the representative from the Right gave the impression that the Competition Authority is responsible for the competitive situation in the milk sector, the Right Party and the Advance Party have a separate comment indicating that the post-control is an important element. The representative should know that the back-up checks are carried out under the control of the State's agricultural management, i.e. not by the Competition Authority. He should also know that what all operators in the industry want is that they should not have systems under the control of the Competition Authority and fines to ensure competition in the milk market. No, one shall have back-testing and back-testing systems under the control of the State's agricultural management. So the Progress Party is talking about new crime work in the context of removing the market regulation of milk. We have not received an answer as to how the Progress Party's new crime work will look, what it will look like when one has finished cultivating it. I have pointed out that within the system of customs protection, with target prices, which is the maximum price for what the farmer can charge to the processing operators, with a sales tax system paid by the farmer, there is no other than the farmer's sea – through his cooperative organisation, Tine – who has a self-interest in trying to achieve the opportunity offered by the target price. What we need to clarify soon is: what is the alternative of the Advance Party? What do you want? You've been talking about this in general for a very long time. But you never talk about which system you want. What interests other than Tine are interested in achieving the highest possible milk price within the scope of the Storting decision on the target price? You have to answer that. There are also several who argue very poorly on the issue of market regulation. One is talking about per. Today there is no better actor than Tine. It is important that we clarify this, because the core of the question is who should be responsible for market regulation. As long as we have customs protection, we necessarily have maximum prices, and so some have to try to achieve the possibility that lies in the maximum price called the target price.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e482	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President. Torbjørn Hansen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e488	I have some brief comments on the contributions from the representatives Breck and Lundtigen. Brerk said that I said there was a serious and systematic discrimination in the dairy sector. It is this, if you read the report of the Committee of Experts on competition in the dairy sector, which points to five different errors in the market organisation, all of which are drawn in the same direction, namely in favour of independent operators. These errors amount to $10 million a year for these actors, and it must be possible to describe them as gross and systematic discrimination. Otherwise, Breck made a rather confusing contribution to the agricultural policy objectives. There is no doubt that the achievement of the agricultural policy objectives, while competition exists in the dairy sector, is evidence of Tine’s role as market regulator through the turnover tax. Otherwise, I have also stated in a note that we support the continuation of the back-up in the dairy sector, and I am pleased that the representative Lundtigen also believes that this makes sense in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e499	It was too tempting to get involved in the debate, even though important negotiations are taking place elsewhere in the house. I would like to use the opportunity to make some comments on what this debate is about, not all the details of the agricultural policy system, but the fact that we have now been able to establish a system of competition in the milk market. If one had just ten years ago, with a pure monopolistic, said that it would be possible after a generation or two with a monopolist in this sector to set up a competition alongside the cooperative – and at my discretion we are beginning to have eye contact with something that might prove to work in the long term – I would say that it was almost impossible. A monopolist who had then established himself so strongly, according to all market economy theory, it is quite difficult to establish competition alongside. It's about to succeed, and it's especially the competition that the Q-meierines represent in this area, which, in my opinion, has helped bring something genuine new into this, because there is now a real competition at the first stage, at the primary stage, namely, to go out to the farmer to get milk and sell human milk. When this debate goes on about Tine and a market regulation role, it is my assessment, after working on this for many years, that the advantage that I think was once with Tine and dairy cooperatives in being responsible for market regulation, is no longer there. It was quite well expressed in 2003–2004, when Tine, in her frustration, actually resigned from the responsibility for market regulation in a decision by the board, and they had to be reminded that after the main agreement they did not have the opportunity to do so. In that case, the entire agricultural contract system is terminated. And they had to bend away from it. It was probably a reality that reflects that, in my opinion, it is more a cost and a burden for Tine to have to take this job than it is an advantage that they can use in the market. I stand in this context for a system in which we have a strong and good cooperative that can have market regulation, but which may not have more market share than the meat co-operation has today, of about 80 pst. Then I'm talking first and foremost about the consumer market. And here there should be room for at least one important private drinking milk operator. The question of future competition in the milk market may be primarily about whether the Council of State or we all manage – I would say – to keep the Q-meierines as an actor. I think the story will not be so very pleasant for the sitting Minister for Agriculture and Food, if he would lose the player that competes on this side. So I want to give the strong advice to the Minister of Agriculture and Food that he actually looks kindly at and does what he can to ensure – and stick with – a good Norwegian, even ideal owned, private actor like the Q-meierien and try to establish it as a sustainable system. Otherwise, I would like to conclude by saying that the target price system, as we know today, will probably meet a tough reality in meeting with the WTO. That's all there is to it. It is probably almost also in what Norway has admitted. We will have problems maintaining an administrative price. Taking out a target price in the future will only be able to achieve the actors. And the importance of a strong Tine in that context will be quite crucial.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e512	Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has had the word twice and gets the word for a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e515	I would like to take this opportunity to clarify a few misunderstandings that have emerged in this debate. A number of speakers have made claims that the Progress Party is against cooperatives. Then I want to ask the question about where you got it from. Has the Progress Party either in any position or from this pulpit expressed that we are opposed to cooperative or cooperative organisation? No, it's impossible to find. The Progress Party has nothing against cooperatives. The party may consider that cooperatives can be a good way to organise themselves, but it must be up to the individual actor who wants to be part of such a cooperative to decide. The progress party is opposed to monopolistic states. We are in order for large players who control a market to have competition. What has been negative about Norwegian agricultural cooperation is that it has had too much power over the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e522	I am pleased that the representative Hansen is standing by that the Competition Authority is not an actor in securing competition in the milk market. It's important to get underlined. I notice that the Progress Party is absent in arguing for its alternative to Tine as market regulator. That's also interesting. I have not said that the Progress Party is against cooperative law and cooperative organisations. The point is about a cooperative organisation, in this case Tine, to be a market regulator. Finally, the centre party is a hot follower of target prices. Target prices are closely linked to import protection. If there is sufficient import protection, there is a possibility of a target price, thus having a system that is balanced against the different interests. That's the central party's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e531	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2226]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e547	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e556	The proposal from the Right-wing Representatives is about measures to improve the recruitment situation in the fishing and shipping industries. The fishing and shipping industry is one of Norway's most important industries, and it is an industry facing a raging development. International trade and globalisation have led to strong growth in shipping. Over 90 pst. of all global goods transported by sea. This means that there is a need to increase recruitment of Norwegian seafarers, and around 3000 to 4000 Norwegian seafarers will be needed in the future. The Committee is aware that this is a significant challenge in that today there is a tight labour market and low unemployment. But there is also an overall committee that is very positive that the industry as a whole is doing a lot of active and good work to recruit more young people to maritime education. In the Committee's configuration, reference is made to the recruitment campaign "an education you can get far with" and the new web portal "notforalle.no". The important thing to notice here is that there is an overall maritime industry that is behind the campaign, both workers and employers. There is a shared position by the Committee. I will explain the position of the majority of the Committee and some specific comments from the Progress Party. I assume that the other parties take up their proposals and explain their views on the matter. To lift the limitations on the area of use, we think we'll be undermining the recruitment campaign that's in progress. It will also help to create an uncertainty for Norwegian youth that assesses education in maritime professions, and may in fact also lead to fewer Norwegian seafarers. I would like to quote what emerged from the Norwegian Shipowners' Federation during consultation in the Committee on 31 January: ‘However, the reasons given by the proposers for the proposal to lift the limitations on the sea area are that this will improve the recruitment situation. There's a context that we're more doubtful about. No more seafarers will be available by lifting the operating area limitations in the NIS register. The recruitment challenge needs to be addressed through actions aimed at giving more people the choice of a maritime career.’ In the hearing in the committee there were several who raised this issue and did not believe that the proposal of the Right-wing Representatives was involved in addressing the challenges facing the industry. In the fisheries sector, recruiting more people for the profession is also a major challenge. The enormous noise surrounding Norwegian fisheries policy these days is not getting better. From the time of the accession of the Government, considerable uncertainty has been created for the future in the Norwegian fishing industry. You can read the columns daily and split down about political conflict between the red-greens. As the Progress Party assesses it, it helps to weaken the possibility of recruiting more fishermen for this profession. It also contributes to creating a huge uncertainty for one of the country's most important industries. That is what we in the Progress Party think is unfortunate. If you are going to do some active work to recruit more people, both for the fishing industry and for the shipping profession in general, you have to do some other work. We in the Progress Party have proposed to increase the seafarer’s deduction from NOK 80000 per year. years, as it is today, at NOK 150 000 per year. years. Unfortunately, that proposal has not been given a majority, either by the Right or by any of the other parties. The progress party has also been a hot supporter of the net pay system and to increase it, but there we have also met counterclaims so far. We believe these are measures that could help increase recruitment in these professions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e580	Today's Business Today can state that Norwegian and Norwegian-controlled shipping and drilling companies have ordered new ships and drilling rigs for a staggering NOK 220 billion. According to the Company's quarterly survey, which does not cover all orders, the shipping companies had 356 ships and 25 rigs to order at the turn of the year. This is an expression of the optimism that now prevails in the Norwegian shipping industry. It is not much worse in the fishing industry. Last year, fish and fish products were exported for nearly 36 billion kroner. Despite somewhat varied results, 2006 became a record year for the fisheries and farming industry. Wages and salaries are consistently better than ever. Everything indicates that good times are continuing into 2007. I therefore believe that parts of the industry, with the support of the Progress Party, should be extremely careful in painting the situation in the fishing industry. This may have significant consequences for the recruitment of the industry. Finally, both the maritime and fisheries industries have seen the need for new recruitment. The Maritime Forum, with the support of shipping associations and maritime organisations, has launched a broad recruitment campaign in which Norwegian youth is invited to the seafarers' professions. The Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has previously asked Norway's Fiskarlag to investigate recruitment and establishment schemes for young people for the fishing fleet. The report by the Fiskerlagen is now out for consultation with the deadline at the beginning of April. In such a situation, the Right proposes to lift the speed limits in the Norwegian International Ship Register, so that Norwegian crews can be replaced by foreign crews with international pay and working conditions on Norwegian base and Norwegian domestic voyages. Then it may not be surprising that large parts of the maritime industry themselves obviously perceive the present Right-proposal as quite premature. The majority of the Committee, all with the exception of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, believes that lifting the limitations of the area of operation in NIS is suitable for undermining the current recruitment campaign and recruitment work, and creating uncertainty about Norwegian youth career opportunities in Norwegian shipping. It is, of course, strange that the three previous cooperation parties left this proposal as long as they themselves had the government power, and that they only dare to promote it when they know that it is rejected. Norwegian shipping companies and Norwegian seafarers can rejoice that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are now out of government offices. Then they get to keep the extended net pay scheme, which in itself has contributed to securing Norwegian jobs and creating increased optimism and investment in the industry. I certainly also know that the seafarers have noticed that some Right-wing representatives are still touring the country and refer to the net pay scheme as support for bar operation on board the Danish ferries. It is very important that Norwegian maritime industries are guaranteed recruitment and development opportunities. The competence of Norwegian seafarers is the key to the future. It also imposes requirements on educational institutions. I am pleased to note that there are also signs of renewal, and mention in this connection the plans of a maritime centre attached to the University of Westfold. Norwegian ships with Norwegian seafarers are, to my mind, a prerequisite for our maritime industries. Those who have followed the Right Way in Maritime Policy over time are hardly surprised that the party is still taking new steps in the liberalist direction. It is more surprising that the Christian People's Party and the Left also follow this path.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e597	One of the main challenges facing business in the future is access to skilled labour. For Norwegian enterprises, skilled and sufficient staff have become a central scarce factor. This is positive because it indicates that unemployment is low and that activity is high. This also means that industries with a good supply of labour will have a better development than industries that, for various reasons, do not win out in this competition. Industries that are unable to compete for labour will have lower profitability and will be subject to greater pressure in terms of conversion, efficiency and ultimately deflagration. In such a situation, there is little doubt that the socio-economic costs of subsidising labour in individual industries, which I understand, are one of the main factors. The party of progress in industrial policy will be higher for industry than the expenditure it actually represents over the state budget, because it is reversing the recruitment opportunities of other enterprises. In large parts of the economy, competition for labour takes place on a level playing field. They offer jobs in the market and qualified personnel can apply for jobs where the conditions and prospects are most exciting. In addition, many industries have good opportunities to recruit non-resident labour. And gradually both the trade union movement and the left side have found that in many cases such labour is a prerequisite for securing Norwegian enterprises and jobs. The background to the proposal we are discussing today is the sharp competition for labour between the shipping industry on the one hand, in particular the offshore industry, and the fishing industry on the other. In contrast to other parts of business, this is not a level playing field. Both the fishing industry and the offshore industry are industries with significant elements of policy regulation and partial support schemes. On the fisheries side, the Government has carried out a series of deteriorations in the framework conditions. Structural policies have led to a situation of uncertainty about key framework conditions for both future and already implemented investments. Structural policy has implications for recruitment, because the standard and profitability of the fleet affect the ability to provide labour. In addition, the Government has introduced a NOx tax, which imposes unnecessary and unreasonable burdens on the fishing industry to finance the Government’s more priority objectives of the State budget. The NOx tax also reduces the profitability and the ability of the fishing industry to compete for labour. In the same direction, a district hostile district quota system and unfair delivery obligations are drawn. At the top of this, the fishing industry is pushed into the labour market from an offshore industry with a full net pay scheme for the entire crew. In the offshore market, companies receive more than NOK 150 000 in State aid per year. employed per year; years. As a result, the non-subsidised fishing activities experience a high take-off of off-shore crews and have similar problems in obtaining new crews. This is not a level playing field. The fishing industry has therefore for a long time required the liquidation of the net pay arrangements for Norwegian seafarers. The offshore industry is per year. On 1 July 119 new vessels were contracted with delivery by 2009. 85 of these are to be built in Norway. It is estimated that 2 000 to 2 500 new seafarers are needed. With the growth in the shipping industry today, we will need 3,000–4,000 new seafarers in the next few years. This is a positive development, and it is good that the shipping industry addresses this by launching recruitment campaigns. It's positive. But today's legislation, with strict restrictions on the shipping area of ships registered in NIS, reinforces the problems of the fishing industry. The Speed Zone Limitation prevents NIS ships from competing on a Norwegian base or along the coast. If Norwegian vessels are to participate in this market, they must be registered in the NOR register. This register requires Norwegian wage and working conditions and cuts off the possibility of the use of internationally qualified labour. We thus have an offshore industry which is locked to use employees under Norwegian working conditions, while they receive large subsidies per person. employed. A lifting of the scope restriction in NIS will improve the framework conditions for the shipping industry in Norway. There's no doubt about it. This has been a requirement for many years. However, there is no doubt that such a lifting of the limitations on the area of use would improve the recruitment of the fishing industry. The fishing industry expressed this very clearly in the hearing. There is no doubt that the restriction of use creates an increased pressure on the fishing industry when it comes to recruitment. I would like to conclude by saying that I register with some wonder that the majority today is voting against a proposal in the vote that was so late in the discussion of the maritime communication in 2004. Government batches refer to the possibility of increasing the fishing deduction as a measure to strengthen the recruitment of the fishing industry. This is an interesting signal that we assume is being followed up in the budgetary processes ahead. I would like to raise the right-hand proposal in the vote, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox If this proposal were not to be given a majority, the Right will subsidiaryly support proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, to open in the first instance so that NIS-registered ships can carry out missions on a Norwegian base. I also address the proposal where the Right is with the Christian People's Party and the Left, proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e631	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e634	The starting point for this debate is the recruitment situation for the fishing industry. The industry is in need of skilled labour, but it is felt that competition from other maritime industries makes it difficult to obtain it. Many would say that competition is healthy and that the fishing fleet should meet the increased competition for labour, for example. better well-being of workers. In the case of such competition, i.e. competition between employers for welfare measures, there is hardly anyone who wants to vote against it. But that's not what this case is. We've always had competition both in and between maritime industries, and that's what we want. All the actors are in agreement with that. But the problem is that the fishing industry is now with a sense of fighting with a hand tied on its back. Competition conditions differ due to selective support schemes for other maritime industries. When some actors re-approve of the net pay scheme, and others do not, selected groups get a start-up lead. Here's the fishing industry that's coming out. Let me make it so clear: as far as I have registered, there is no sign of a net pay scheme for the fishing fleet, but many people have pointed out that there are very different conditions of competition going on and on. I have noted that the government fraction opens so that the government can assess an increase in the fish deduction. It's positive, and it would be a good and effective tool to smooth out the differences in competition. Now we know that there is no tradition of making tax changes in the middle of the year, but it is allowed to send out a signal. The main point is that this is urgent. Whenever shipping is concerned, changes should also be made. According to the Christian People's Party's opinion, there are several arguments for a gradual escalation of the scope limits of the NIS ships. In the Committee’s hearings, there were different views on how this would turn out, whether it would improve the recruitment situation for the fisheries industry. But it's allowed to use logic in the assessments. An extension of the areas of NIS ships means increasing competition for ships in NOR, i.e. several ships with crews that can take on missions where the NOR ships have previously been dominant. It should reduce competitive disadvantages in relation to the labour force of the fishing industry which competes with ships in NOR for skilled labour. Another argument is the principle that the framework conditions for Norwegian maritime industry should not deviate significantly from European shipping otherwise, regardless of the recruitment situation for the fishing industry. The fact that NIS ships cannot take on tasks that other Norwegian and foreign competitors can take on is a special scheme that does not exist in other coastal states. Now I would like to ask that the representative of Gullvåg perhaps follow in particular, because there are clearly certain details that he has not received so far. The proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Left opens so that NIS ships can take on orders to and from the base, and that one should evaluate the consequences in the labour market before any further action is taken. There is a compromise between different considerations. It reduces the difference between the Norwegian and foreign framework conditions for shipping, while employee organisations are concerned about a sharp deterioration in the working conditions of maritime industry. This is a proposal that has basically been behind a wide variety of things in the past – all the unreceptive SV, as far as I can think. A supported system as late as in the previous ageing period a corresponding one. So in the argument against this, there will be up to several people in this room who will probably meet themselves in the swing door. Finally, I would like to address it as presented by the Christian People's Party and the Left together in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e653	The representative of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e656	The fishing industry is one of the carriers of Norwegian industry. Only in the two months of January and February of this year, Norway exported over DKK 6 billion. It's over 1 billion more than at the same time last year. 2006 was also a record year. The left is concerned about the recruitment of this important industry and therefore believes that action should be taken as soon as possible. It is not about black paint, as was mentioned in previous articles here, but about listening to the signals of those who are in the middle of the situation. The fishing fleet is dependent on supplying its products in an international product market. Therefore, the fishing industry is in many ways as vulnerable to international competition as other shipping. There is competition for the same labour force. The anti-competitive aid schemes mean that the fishing fleet is struggling to get people on board. Moreover, today's problem is not unique to the fishing industry and the shipping industry. A tight labour market affects almost all industries and sectors. Yesterday, a new NAV report showed that employment will increase by 75 000 up to the end of next year. The good market for jobseekers causes more employers to experience recruitment problems now. In the report, NAV expects that during this year and next year there will be more employers who will have more problems finding labour. Perhaps the most important industrial policy challenge facing us as a nation will be to reduce oil dependence over time, to compensate for the expected loss of activity from the oil and gas sectors, and to create a broader and more varied base for value creation in the competitive sector. There is no doubt that the marine environment, both the fishing industry and the shipping industry, can make a significant and important contribution to this process. Our maritime position provides a very good starting point for taking new and profitable shares in growing markets, with associated increased value creation and employment at land and sea. The net pay scheme, which costs Norwegian taxpayers billions of dollars annually, is highly distorting in an otherwise open labour market. This is not least the case in the area of competition between those on the sea of a fishing vessel and those on board, for example: a passenger ferry, an offshore vessel or the Hurtigruten. Rather than extending the scheme to the fishing industry, the net pay scheme should be limited, as proposed by the Left in its 2007 alternative budget. At the same time, an increase in the fishing deduction will help to compensate for the obvious disadvantages created by today's regime for the fishing industry in the labour competition. The framework conditions for Norwegian shipping must be competitive against a similar framework in countries with which it is natural to compare. But that doesn't mean that everything has to be equal. For the Left, the following measures will also be important to ensure the recruitment of the industry: further increasing labour migration stable, predictable and positive tax and industrial policies on what we are best at: developing skills, high technology and environmentally friendly solutions developing Norway as a pilot country in the field of environmentally friendly shipping and fisheries Pending the outcome of such a policy, it is important that it be acted on the part of the authorities. The left considers that today's discrimination must be compensated by tax systems aimed at fishermen and fishing fleets. Here an increase in the fishing deduction is a good tool. There have been proposals for figures up to NOK 150 000, but this needs to be brought back. Such a deduction will directly benefit fishermen, and it will not help to increase the profits of the owners, which we see is a significant issue for many companies. The requirement for deduction of fish must also be lowered. Here, suggestions have been launched about down to 100 days, but these are also things that one of course has to come back to after further consideration. The left considers it important for the Council of State to come back to the revised budget with concrete measures in relation to the fishing industry. These measures must be of a level playing field for the recruitment of fleet crews. I ask that the above recordings be carefully evaluated. Otherwise, reference is made to the proposals on which the Left is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e697	There's going to be a little bit of a change in the list of speakers. First, it's Lars Peder Breck. Then it's the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e700	I'm sorry I was a little late, so there was some confusion in the order. I thank you for getting in now. As many of the representatives who have spoken so far have said, much is going well in the Norwegian economy at the moment. There is low unemployment and a tight labour market. This, of course, also reflects the situation in both the fishing industry and the shipping industry. There is a good situation for Norwegian business and for Norwegian society, but there are also many challenges. In our view, the recruitment campaign from an overall industry to recruit more young people for maritime education, ‘a training you get far’, is a very positive initiative supported by both the trade unions and employers in the industry. It also has full support from political groups. With regard to the proposal made in this case to lift the limitations of the area of use of the Norwegian International Ship Register, we believe that it could be a danger that it will help undermine the recruitment campaign and create greater uncertainty for young people who are assessing training in maritime professions. This may also help to reduce the number of Norwegian seafarers. We think that would be critical in a situation where it is important that we try to recruit more people instead of getting fewer. The creation of stability and long-term stability as regards the framework conditions for the shipping industry and the fishing industry is particularly important from the perspective of the Government and the bulk of the population. I would like to stress that the stability and long-termity that is now being created has replaced a period of uncertainty, which has shaped the policies of former governments towards these industries. I would like to stress that ensuring reimbursement schemes for seafarers, continuing the net pay system, as the Government has done, has been an important element in establishing a stable and long-term framework for industry, which is particularly positive. I would like to point out an element that is a consequence of the changes that have now been made, and that is that the shipping companies are paying into a competence fund for everyone who is covered by the net pay scheme. This fund provides grants for training positions, various skills and recruitment measures and other measures to ensure a positive development for the maritime sector. The Fund also provides instruments for fishermen recruited for fishing vessels. There is only one element there that one has to take up, and that is that there are some limitations in the size of the fishing vessel that are covered by the scheme, and there is one thing that I think one has to look at. So to the representative Øyvind Korsberg, and also other speakers, among others. The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug of the Left, who, in his contributions, underlined their commitment to consider increasing the fishing deduction to EUR 150000 in order to contribute to ensuring the fisheries industry an equivalent level of competition, including: the offshore fleet. This is one of the proposals made in the report drawn up by the Norwegian Fisheries Team, ‘From Youth to Fish, from Fishermen to Fishermen’, a report that makes clear recommendations on measures that can help improve the recruitment of the fishing industry. As has been pointed out in the position on this matter, the majority believes that we should wait for the hearing on this matter before we can draw any conclusions. The hearing ended on 11 April, and I believe that we should then be able to work on that issue after that time. On the part of the Centre Party, I would like to stress that we are fully willing to consider the proposals made by the Norwegian Fisheries Team in this matter, including: the increase of the fisherman’s deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e722	The government is engaged in the recruitment of Norwegian shipping. Accessing qualified seafarers in the future is a challenge. Meeting that challenge requires efforts both from industry itself and from the authorities. The Government has placed great emphasis on ensuring the reimbursement system for seafarers and has extended the net pay scheme to several groups. This government has no plans to change the conditions for access to NIS ships in Norwegian domestic voyages. In order to ensure recruitment to the shipping industry, a change in the limitations of the operating range of NIS ships will not be the way to go. This government has chosen to extend the support arrangements for seafarers on board the NOR fleet. The reimbursement system and the net pay system for seafarers have been continued and extended, in line with the Soria Moria declaration. This year, more than DKK 1.3 billion is allocated in actions to ensure employment by Norwegian seafarers. In addition to extending the support schemes for seafarers on board NOR ships, the Government is working to reintroduce labour permit requirements for Norwegian domestic voyages. Work in Norway should take place under Norwegian conditions, and a requirement for a work permit is an action against social dumping in coastal shipping. We have chosen to promote these measures rather than choosing schemes that will result in the extension of the use of foreign teams in Norwegian domestic voyages. It ensures the employment of Norwegian seafarers to a greater extent and contributes to our objective of securing jobs and growth in maritime industries. These measures will also avoid the need to change the operating range limitations of the NIS ships. A lifting of the fully operational limits for NIS ships could also be problematic with regard to our obligations under the EEA Agreement. The government has also continued and extended the scheme in which the companies pay an amount to a competence fund for employees covered by the net pay scheme. The Fund provides grants for various skills and recruitment measures and other measures that ensure a positive industrial development in the maritime sector. As far as the fishing fleet is concerned, it is agreed that it is important to consider long-term recruitment measures in addition to more short-term measures to ensure a well-qualified crew for the fishing fleet. In September last year, the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coast received the report ‘From youth to fishers, from fish to owners’. The report makes clear recommendations on recruitment measures in the fisheries industry and the recommendations shall be followed up. That report is now out for consultation. We have also received proposals for measures to improve the framework conditions for the fishing fleet. The proposals are now under consideration. This government has given Norwegian shipping a new course to ensure value creation and employment in the maritime industries through good and stable framework conditions. This government does not intend to propose a change to the limitations of its area of use for NIS ships. We have chosen to extend the support schemes for crews on board NOR ships and to work to reintroduce work permit requirements in Norwegian domestic voyages. It ensures the employment of Norwegian seafarers to a greater extent and contributes to our objective of securing jobs and growth in maritime industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e748	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e751	What has been a pleasure in the debate so far is the positive review of the increase in the fishing deduction. I think that's very important, because within the fisheries industry there are tough challenges with NOx tax, universality, district quota and a number of state regulations that intervene in the industry – you feel a frustration in the industry. Part of the speakers from the other batches have pointed to the difference in competition between the fishing industry and other shipping industries with net pay arrangements. If you remove the net pay scheme, you actually remove a few thousand Norwegian jobs. My question is, can the Council of State guarantee that the net pay system will not be weakened? The second question concerns the fishing deduction. I'm not going to ask if it comes in the revised state budget, because then I know the answer. But how positive can the Council of State say whether any action will be taken in the revised state budget in terms of the fishing deduction?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e763	Firstly, the representative of Korsberg is aware that this government has been concerned about, and paid what is necessary, to put in place the net pay scheme, and we intend to continue it. I am also pleased with the support of the representative and the Progress Party for the position on the matter that we are now dealing with. With regard to the question of how positive the Council of State can be to a constructive proposal to increase the deduction of fish as an alternative to other solutions to put the fisheries sector in a better competitive position, it is quite right that the representative suggests that I cannot respond to either the revised budget or, where appropriate, the state budget. We have said that we think it is a much more constructive approach than other alternatives. Although it has not been proposed from here, some have been involved in having a net pay regime in the fisheries sector as well. We think it's a better option to consider the fishing deduction. Now it is usually agreed that in the revised budget we will mainly implement the budget adopted – not much new policy. This is an indication, but no complete answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e770	I would like to ask the Council of State whether he sees that the competitive conditions and competition between the offshore sector and the fishing industry are a serious problem for the fishing industry, because the first answer the Council of State sent to the Committee on this matter contained hardly a word about the situation in the fishing industry. Then I would like to refer to the letter from the Fischbootreden Association on the matter that launches five different possible actions to do something about the problem. One is to give fishermen the same net pay scheme as shipping. The second is to increase the proportion of foreign employees in the fishing industry. The third is to increase the proportion of foreign employees in the offshore industry by removing the area limitations in NIS. The fourth is to improve the structure so as to improve the profitability of the fishing industry. The fifth measure is cost-reduction measures, such as: raising the fishing deduction. Can we expect the Government to do something active in relation to this situation, or will this just become processes and talk about and little concrete action for the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e779	I understand that the representative has great expectations for the Government. That's why, because what's at the root of the question is that it's a successful story about how we handle the fleet that works in the North Sea, which is once again the basis for the challenge being there at all. We have received a government that is predictable in relation to the framework conditions of the NOR fleet in the North Sea, with net pay arrangements, etc. We have therefore provided a basis for investment and optimism in Norwegian shipping, which it has not been for a long time. That is the starting point, and that is why I understand that the representative has expectations for the Government. As I said in my main post, it is that all of these proposals and the proposals related to the Fisker team's recruitment of the fishing fleet will be assessed by the Government, and our starting point is, of course, also to strengthen recruitment to Norwegian fisheries in the future. I must also be allowed to mention that within the EEA Agreement, it is of course good access for foreign labour to work in the Norwegian sector. We're talking about outside the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e786	A major challenge now is simply to improve the conditions under which fishing fleets compete in the fight for labour. When I read from the Fiskarlag that the Ministry of Finance will consider an increase in the fish deduction, I become partly optimistic. In connection with that, I could imagine asking the Council of State for advice. Should I correct my optimism, or should I perhaps dare to adjust my optimism?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e791	It is difficult to give the representative Sørfonn some advice on optimism, or not optimism. But what we can at least agree on is that there is a better basis for optimism in the answer that exists from the Ministry of Finance this time, because under the previous government this question, I was known, was not evaluated at all. So the world is moving forward and in the direction of optimism, without any commitment as to what will be the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e796	There is considerable frustration among fishing boat owners – for example, a fishing boater may have an office wall on the wall with an offshore ranger. There are many of these examples. The fishing boat owner may have a shrimp trawler on Greenland, for example, and is often farther away both geographically and in time than one working on an offshore vessel. Being away today is often seen as a disadvantage for family life and also for recruiting to the fleet. It is a significant frustration to be a neighbour of one who gets the benefit of a net pay scheme, while one himself, the fishing boat owner, does not have the possibility of such a grant. Does the Council of State understand the day-to-day frustration experienced here? I'm not going to go into degrees of optimism, but I just want to ask you straight away: will the Council of State assess the input that has come about fishing deductions and the legislation around it in the context of the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e803	The representative, Kongshaug, says that the shipping companies occasionally lie wall to wall – yes, sometimes it is the same company. I have met representatives of the shipping industry in Kongshaug's parts of the country who claim that they are actually living off the North Sea, but for fish, and that they are the same as those in both industries, in the same shipping company. So the challenge is there. But I have to be allowed to say that what mainly confronts me with the Norwegian shipping industry in general, but also with the fishing boat owners, is optimism. That's the starting point. Then there's a competition for labour because it's going well in both industries. That's what I think is right to have as a starting point. The proposals mentioned by the representative of Kongshaug will be assessed by the Government – not only by the Ministry of Industry and Trade but also by the Ministry of Finance and others responsible for the various areas. But I can say that the examples and objectives mentioned by the representative of Kongshaug in his speech are fully shared by the present government with a view to an optimistic future for this industry. There we go in the same direction, but we have different perceptions of some of the tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e818	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e824	Under the previous government, the Norwegian economy was repatriated and unemployment was brought down. The Norwegian industry experienced a strong upturn, which continues to last. Our main challenge now is the lack of labour, as opposed to the situation in 2001, when the Stoltenberg I government went off. Then unemployment was high. The growth and temperature of the Norwegian economy has been currently protected by a Chinese veil on costs, and by assistance from the east in the situation on the labour force side. But we have a major labour problem. It is paradoxical that while the Minister of Finance says that she is awake about the networks and is thinking about the labour and recruitment problems of Norwegian business, the Minister of Industry is obviously sleeping a lot better — perhaps too well. The labour market situation in Norwegian shipping, fisheries, Norwegian activities on the base and in other industries is labour-intensive. The scarcity of many industries is intrusive. There are more job vacancies than jobseekers and this leads to production restrictions and payroll pressures. Yes, in fact, a lack of building materials is reported. This Document No The 8 proposal addresses important questions about recruitment issues. It answers the Minister of Industry with reference to the views of employee organisations on this issue. His visions for solutions are further expansion of net pay schemes, subsidisation and other restrictions. When the Stortinget dealt with the shipping communication in the previous period, a large majority, including the Workers' Party, felt that the scope of the NIS register should be extended. The majority pointed out in particular that NIS is the only register in the world that has a limitation against not being able to participate in domestic voyages. It was natural that the majority at that time were positive, and especially pointed to an opening against the Norwegian pedestal. What's changed since then? Only the labour market is now even tighter. Then it becomes understandable that an attempt to improve the labour situation in Norway — not just in shipping, for seafarers can work in many places — meets with references to the importance of subsidies. This is probably a good response to mariners’ organisations, but there is no good response to the current labour situation in our country – either in total or within the various areas of shipping and fishing. It has almost become that any question to the Minister of Industry and to the representatives of the position on maritime strategies is answered with the answer ‘net wage schemes’. It kind of reminds me of the folk adventure "Good day, man! – Alkaline shaft’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e839	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2227]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e855	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2227]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e863	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e871	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left motions No. 2 and 3, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 4, 5 and 6, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4–6, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e913	There will then be a vote on the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e937	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a new assessment of the competition situation in the dairy sector in the revised national budget for 2007, in particular on the need to improve the framework conditions for private operators in order to ensure a genuine competitive opportunity.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e966	President! We voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e973	Then we'll have a new voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e990	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 2, by Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 3, from Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right The vote will be taken at the next voting time on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the lifting of the limitations on seafaring in the Norwegian International Ship Register [[NIS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e1017	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked by the Government through a regulation opened in order for ships in the Norwegian International Ship Register to carry out their mission to/from installations on a Norwegian base.’ [[NIS]] The right has notified that they wish to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e1034	Proposal No. 1, from the Right, Christian People's Party and Left says: ‘Document No. 8:18 [[2006-2007]] This proposal will be replaced by the Committee's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-09.ana.ud971e1089	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
