ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e45	The representative Hans Olav Syversen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e54	The President proposes the election of a president of the Stortinges meeting today and for the rest of the current week – and considers it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen is considered unanimously elected president for the current week.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e79	I thought for a long time about promoting this interpellation and thus addressing this difficult issue in Stortinget. But after talking to the suicide research section, I became convinced that it was the right thing to do. Many of us have a story or experience in this area. The aim of this interpellation is to highlight a difficult issue and to help set the agenda. As a politician, I believe that one should also dare to take the tough debates and take the responsibility we have. During the weeks after Christmas, LEVE – the National Association of Survivors – has had an information campaign to raise awareness. A false death announcement across a whole newspaper page has made many of us feel that the message is direct, and it hits something in us. The aim of the association's campaign is to become visible and to increase understanding of the situation of the survivors of suicide. Every year 30,000 Norwegians experience that someone they know commits suicide. Young survivors are struggling for a long time with frustration, anxiety, depressive thoughts and feelings, concentration problems, sleep difficulties and increased incidence of physical diseases. They often experience a disturbance and recall the incident. About 70 pst. feel that they need the help of professionals. In 2004, 529 persons in Norway took their own lives, 93 of whom were men between 15 and 29 years of age. In Europe, it is estimated that 135 000 people take their own lives each year. The number is impossible to determine correctly, because there are cases where suicides are not reported. Young boys, in addition to men in their 50s, are the most vulnerable group. More die in suicide than in traffic. Norway is in the middle of the suicide rate among the population as a whole. However, in terms of youth suicide, we are at a high international level — higher than England and several other European countries. Although there has been some decline since the 1980s, it is in no way surprising that suicide continues to constitute a health problem in Norway. The causes are many and complex, and there is no fasitivity. One of the reasons for this may be the absence of the labour market during this period of life. Young boys are on their way in, while older men are on their way out. Having a job to go to and be able to support themselves and their closest ones is for most the most important thing. Today, society is making enormous demands on the right type of competence, a personality that easily slips into environments, and adaptability. Many men only have their workplaces as the social outside the home's four walls. The cost to society is that jobs are laid down and many are retired early. Other reasons why the numbers are particularly high among young boys are that it is more taboo to talk to your friends if you have it tough. For many boys, it can be difficult to seek help, such as a health care sister and a psychologist. There are also more men who succeed in their efforts. There is no doubt that mental illness and suicide are linked. Studies from several countries suggest that 90 pst. of those who take their own lives have a mental disorder at the time of the suicide. The risk of suicide is high in such conditions as depression, bipolar disorder, schizophrenia, unstable personality disorder and drug dependence. Combinations of these disorders further increase the risk. In figures, we can estimate that the risk of suicide is between 5 and 10 pst. in these conditions individually, which is approximately 10 times the increased risk compared to those who do not have such disorders. It's estimated that 15-20 pst. mental disorders of the population are milder or more severe. This means that in Norway about 800,000 people suffer from mental illness, according to St.meld. No 39 for 2001–02, Growth and living conditions for young people in Norway. The prevalence of mental illness in children and young people is estimated to vary from one survey to another. 20 pst. Furthermore, the grossing-up message states: ‘For every suicide we find more attempts at suicide. The State Institute for Public Health has estimated that the incidence of suicide attempts in the age groups below 20 years is almost twice as high among girls as among boys. In a study of high school students in Oslo, it was found that five percent had attempted suicide, while a whole 32 percent reported that they had had thoughts of taking their own life or harming themselves.» Yesterday we read in the Newspaper that the number of suicide attempts among young girls has increased dramatically in recent years. The proportion of girls who have tried to take their own life has increased by almost 30 pst. from 1992 to 2002. This shows a recent study published by NOVA. Many people don't want to take their own lives, but are self-damaging. The motive is to deal with difficult feelings, not to take your own life. This is a major challenge for health and society as a whole. Another report by the NOVA research institute on the living conditions of homosexuals and lesbians revealed alarming figures in relation to the mental health of this group. The high incidence of suicide attempts among young homosexuals and lesbians is particularly worrying. The NOVA report shows that 27 pst. by men and 25 pst. of women aged 16 to 24 years in this sample have tried to take their own lives once or more. The media often focuses on suicide, where the story of individuals is portrayed, where the survivors demand better follow-up, and where parents say that their child was not heard and did not get help. The school and contact teacher, often the only non-family adult in contact with youth, play an important role. When parents do not reach their children, the teachers can reach them. Many teachers don't dare to take up the theme because they're afraid of boredom. I would suggest that the Minister of Health, in cooperation with non-governmental organisations, launch a campaign in high school on suicide and self-harm. The aim here is not to leave the whole and full responsibility to the school, but to improve cooperation in this area. Both in prevention and in the case of young survivors, the school must be a resource. Environmental therapists and employees in sports organisations, sports clubs — and other recreational services for young people — are being associated with young people at the most difficult times. These should be trained in mental health and suicide. In summarising the joint supervision of the school health services by county doctors in 2000, the State Health Authority concluded, inter alia, that: that in secondary education there is a complete lack of provision of school health services or a severe reduction in the offer. There are considerable differences between municipalities and municipalities. Many single-members have suffered from the fact that, for periods, municipalities have closed out children’s and youth mental outpatient clinics, the BUP. SINTEF has conducted a study on treatment provision in the BUP based on treatment and user experience. The 2005 report states that treatment provision also varies drastically from municipality to municipality, and that waiting time is very long. Anne Berit Sætermo in LEVE Nordland, with whom I have been in contact, and who told me his story, says that youth is a vulnerable and weak group that does not scream if they do not get help – there must be someone else who takes responsibility for helping children and young people when they need it. With knowledge, she says, we can save lives. Today, we young people often hear how lucky we are and that the world is in front of our feet. We have parents who grew up in the postwar period, with just enough food to feed every hungry mouth in the family. They worked the readings themselves, and were pierced in them, they were stopped. Our parents have wanted to give us everything they didn't get – food in abundance and the latest cool jeans. Many of us are studying, and we're later entering the adult ranks. But at the same time, there are huge demands that we earn free education, good jobs – and not to talk about the last jeans. Many say that we live in a colder society now than before – the neighbor is a dying race. We have to start caring more about each other. Everyone is not successful in everything. Yeah, we're good, and most people grow up in enormous wealth. But we are faced with great demands for success, body ideals, finding the great love, economics and work, and performing. Often one of these things can be the drop that makes a desire to float over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e124	I would first like to thank Anna Ljunggren for bringing up a difficult topic, which it is important to talk loudly about, and also important to do something about. The problem of suicide affects all the arenas of life, which were also involved in the interpellant. And the reasons why someone chooses to try to commit suicide — and someone succeeds — can be many and complex. This could be done, for example, by: be – in order to go all the way back to growing-up conditions – the family situation, conditions in kindergarten, school, in a study situation, in the workplace and in crisis situations. All of this may be the back door because someone chooses to commit suicide. Too many relatives we know that it's hard to see what the cause can be, and that it seems pointless and inexplicable. It is therefore also quite challenging to develop concrete suicide prevention measures because there are so many different reasons why this can happen. Nevertheless, fortunately, we get more knowledge of what we can do, including what we can do. because it has been working very actively with it all the way back to at least 1994. I fully agree with the interpellant that suicide prevention work is helping to save lives, and it can save many relatives and leave too much sorrow. It is, as the interpellant points out, especially many young people who commit suicide, and of course it contributes strongly to poorer living conditions in the population. And not least, the relatives are hit hard when someone close to them has chosen to take his own life. What we also see is that both friends and family often have mental problems after such an event, and unfortunately this group also has an increased risk of suicide. That's why I agree with Anna Ljunggren that preventing suicide is a very important goal. In many cases, mental or drug dependence is part of the picture when it happens — but not always at all. Young people may not have a mental illness, but they may have been vulnerable from childhood onward — and are not robust enough to cope with the pressures they may face later in life. It also says how broad such preventive work must be. In any case, strengthening the supply of people with mental health problems and those with drug dependence is an important measure in itself. I fully agree with the representative Ljunggren that it is unacceptable to have a situation where about 3,500 children and young people on average wait for three months to get help from the specialist health service, especially because we know that many have waited for months and years before they get there. The government will therefore propose during the spring a separate waiting guarantee to ensure that children and young people do not have to wait as long as the case is today. The provision at the health centres in the municipalities needs to be upgraded — and, in particular, the school health service. We all know about many examples from schools where there is hardly a health sister — at least far from what is needed. And we know that many children and young people in stages of life may have problems talking to friends as well as to their parents. Then it's important, as Anna Ljunggren also says, that there are other people there. I think it's important to me that, in order to do something more about this, we strengthen the school health service. The PP service, child protection, decision-makers, the social office, the specialist health service and, in particular, the district psychiatric centres need to be strengthened. On the part of the Government, we give this work a high priority in the framework of the mental health escalation plan. Both getting help when you need it, getting caught as early as possible, and having good quality of the offer given is crucial. There is no doubt that we have specific challenges for children and young people. We know that the offer has been strengthened through the psychiatry escalation plan, but unfortunately we have not come as far as we want. Despite the fact that we have never treated so many children and young people in psychiatry, we see that the waiting lists are increasing. One answer to this may be that people discover that it is an offer — and therefore seek help. That's good. But we see that more people have more complex disorders than was the case before. I believe that some of the most important things that can be done in this area are prevention — in a broad sense and in all arenas. For example, reducing bullying in school is a very important matter. Having people can talk to – the school janitor, for that matter – when you need it, is important to prevent. In addition to strengthening school health services in the form of health sisters or other adult staff, I believe it is also important to equip schools with more psychosocial skills. We know that sober and concrete information in youth settings on suicide and mental health is important to prevent suicide and to prevent the development of an idealisation of young people who have committed suicide. This is a type of work we will go further with – together with the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Knowledge. It has been, and is still, a challenge to have sufficient knowledge of the occurrence, causality and good prevention methods — and of the treatment methods that work. This will, of course, vary from person to person. At the same time, there is no doubt, I think, that auxiliaries need to upgrade their skills in terms of both suicide prevention, treatment provision and follow-up after suicide. We're on our way, but there's no doubt that we're not in the goal. I just want to mention some of the most important measures that have already been taken. It's e.g. Section for Suicide Research and Prevention, which was established at the University of Oslo in 1996. During 2006 and the year we are now in, five regional resource centres will be established on violence, traumatic stress and suicide prevention. These centres shall be established to ensure the environment of competence in each health region. They will help to give people who work on this, more competence and guidance. It applies in all parts of the auxiliary apparatus. Several provision of training has been made in the area of suicide prevention. It has established its own two-year post-secondary education in suicide prevention work. And from the National Institute of Public Health, it's working to get better statistics and more reliable data, so hopefully we can find out more about the causes and incidence of suicide. Of other targeted actions that have been taken, I would like to mention support to the National Association for the Survivors of Suicide, who do an invaluable job. The launch of research projects to identify appropriate methods for treating young people with suicide behaviour is important, for these young people are at risk of suicide. Unfortunately, today’s treatments have proved not to be good enough. A special research project is also under way. We are now developing guidelines for suicide prevention in mental health protection. They will be put to death by 2008. Work has begun on the creation of an assistant supervisor and, not least, for those who are left after a suicide. We have also started a new study both in the municipalities and in hospitals to evaluate the whole treatment chain through suicide attempts – to learn what to do better. I would also like to say that I think Anna Ljunggren has many good ideas that I want to take with me further in the important work we have to do. For example, I think the idea of making a campaign in school is exciting and interesting. We know that in this way we will reach many young people, and that some information is important in order to prevent something more. I want to make sure that we keep working across departments and sectors to get even better in this area. I'm glad that Anna Ljunggren has raised this question, and I'm going to take the ideas with me and follow them up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e158	I would like to thank the Minister of Health for a good answer. It is reassuring to see that this government really addresses mental health among young people. In connection with this debate, I asked my old social teacher at Frydenlund High School in Narvik, Idar Notøy, to take a conversation with one of his classes on the topic of suicide. They discussed for three hours, and four of the students in the class had experienced suicide in close proximity and close quarters. The debate was very much about an Internet game called World of Warcraft – games and addiction thought the students were an area of concern. In the game world, people are accepted, especially those who have failed in other areas. You run away from a pressurized everyday life. You become dependent on the kind of person you create yourself as. You play a role that you like and feel comfortable in. So it's hard to get out of it. You agree to meet and commit to other players all over the world. The students thought that there are too many superficial and selfish parents and adults who do not take the problems of youth seriously. You can't professionalize everything that has to do with such difficult and deep human relationships. I don't think we should continue this debate about this game and gambling addiction, but I think my old teacher by taking this conversation in class really realizes that it's a problem. By getting such a conversation in the classroom, you make suicide something you're allowed to talk about. I bet the conversation also continued after the school day was over. Now this weekend I heard a story about a young boy who had tried to take his own life. He was transported to the hospital and strapped into bed. The problem was that there was so much in the hospital that he was placed in the hallway. The doctor made this as if there was no problem, and that the boy and the family just spent his time. Clearly, we have major challenges with regard to children and young people and mental disorders. We have so few young people in this country that we must take care of all we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e178	I fully agree with what the representative Anna Ljunggren said, and especially the last time that we need to take care of all the young people we have. There is no doubt that suicide is a major public health problem. There are 550 people who commit suicide every year in Norway – and there are many! We know, as Anna Ljunggren said, that there are many more men than women who do. It also takes the Government the utmost seriousness. The story that the representative referred to here, where a young boy must have been laid in the hall, seems to me to be quite horrible. I'll check that out, because that's not how we're supposed to do it. We have to try to make sure that the offer we make is worth and real. Staying in a corridor, no matter what suffering you have, is fundamentally unworthy. It is particularly unworthy in such situations as the representative Ljunggren referred to here. I feel that we very much agree on what is reality, what is the goal, and on many measures that need to be taken on the road to get even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e189	The interpellant said she had been thinking for a long time about putting the suicide problem on the agenda. I can admit that the idea has been there with several others as well. Therefore I give tribute to the representative Ljunggren, who took the step fully. This is a difficult area, an area where there is no Fasit response, but where human relationships can have a great deal of value. Gro Harlem Brundtland wanted the neighboring kerb ring a few years ago, and people went on the smile band. But the neighboring kerchief is not to be missed. She was there, and she is there, both in sorrow and in joy. She cares about you, but she doesn't care about you - she doesn't care about what you do. The nabooker ring is an elusive race. We've got it so busy. We've got enough of ourselves. We search for status and fine titles and often live in a shell surrounded by pointed elbows. We have less time for each other, at least what we say. We live through organized from hour to hour most of the day. There will be little time for conversations where you can observe the signal that not everything is right. I also have no solution to how to bring down these high suicide rates – plus the darkest ones. Psychiatric services may be helpful to many. When young boys don't think life is worth living if their girlfriend picks up – and one is only 20 years old – then it's hard to understand that death is the only way out. Psychiatric services are also not good enough in many municipalities, to which the Council of State was also concerned. Some hours in the youth school with information and dialogue with the students, on which the representative Ljunggren was involved, could be helpful. Perhaps it could give thought and contribute to further discussions between students on a subject that has so far been taboo. Perhaps a few people who themselves have experienced suicide in a close family, someone who is good at putting words on grief, but most of all on guilt and unanswered questions that one should fight with for years, to be in such groups. We all have to be better at talking about it. We have to be with and share the grief and the burden. She's incredibly heavy. The interpellant was concerned that the second group, which is clearly distinguished in the statistics, is well-adult. Then they ask, is the career hunt too tough for some people? Is it to feel that a non-stretched, participative? If so, should employee conversation be mandatory? One I knew who gave notice to a superior is no longer among us. One should actually be strong if one is to address mental problems with integrations, with colleagues, in a place where everyone knows everyone. And where does the information that you've been given as an employer go? Is the health service the right place in this phase, or should one, at least in small communities, play for the first time on the neighbor, on the tourmate, on the childhood friend, on someone who has a big heart without being a professional? I'm calling for the low-threshold supply. I have to say that I believe in the last, but here maybe privacy is a bad thing. We must be careful to be so pervasive that we forget to be fellow humans, forget to live for each other a little outside the four walls of the house. The solitude is on the way to becoming the new public disease in the country that is capable of one of the best to live in – materially speaking. Nabokjerringa should be given the honorary mention of her fortresses. She's good to have, and we might need her as much today as in previous times. Voluntary work has many good in it that cannot be purchased for money.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e211	This is a serious debate, and it is serious and sad when a person chooses to end his own life. Every year, a million people worldwide choose to commit suicide. Besides, there's probably a lot of darkness. This is more than the number that dies in war. When a person chooses to take his own life, it is clear that then there is no other way out. There are many young people who choose it, and there are two and a half times as many boys as girls who end their lives in such a way. It is not said that girls have less problems, but boys choose a more dramatic way. They choose to shoot, they choose to hang, they choose to drown – and the result is final. Many girls are rescued from suicide attempts and are able to get through it and live a good life. It's been trying a lot. The Council of State also mentioned a great many measures. But it turns out that it's almost impossible to figure out what to really do. There's no fasit. It has been tried with close follow-up, with a green card – I have tried to read to find out what you can really suggest as a good solution. The only thing I can see is that in Iceland you had a campaign that targeted especially young men. There they got a reduction. They had thorough training of health professionals, improved access to emergency care — for high-risk groups in particular — and a awareness campaign. Maybe it's with awareness, it's with the neighbor who it was about here – just the social exposure around this – that has to happen. It's not easy for young guys to show up as weak, and many people perceive it so that when you have problems, when you don't deal with your own life, and when you resort to help, you're weak. Perhaps a lot of the equipment around, including family, friends and health care, is aimed at girls — girls who can afford to be weak and who have easier to talk about their problems. Maybe you have to be a little more aware that boys and men can also have big problems. The expectations they had for men before were that they would grow up and become family caregivers. Today, it can be quite confusing for many young men what is expected of them, what role they should play, and whether they can play that role. We saw a tragic example -- it was probably last week -- where a family father killed his family and himself. It wasn't just suicide; he killed the whole family. It was expectation pressure, it was disappointment not to stretch to. Life was simply too difficult. It's a tragedy that's completely indescribable. Some people choose to end their lives because they feel that they are not stretching to themselves and to the outside expectations. Trying to find measures that can take and that may be in place when they need it is important. Then it won't take three months to get to the psychologist, it won't be useful to have to take many phone rounds to get answers in the case of adults. At least we have to make an offer that is there when someone takes the step and asks for help. That's the least we can do. So society and each of us have to think a little bit about it: is there anyone who has it hard around us? Can we stand up? It's a awareness-raising campaign that maybe can stir up a little bit of it with the neighbor, the fact that we're there for each other – not to care about, but to care about us. We can never, I think, get there that no one takes their own life, but we can try to be there as little as possible, so that they at least get the help they can get. In the case of the relatives, it is also important. Often we see that it is set up with crisis teams when major accidents occur, while those who lose their closest in another way, actually have no one to resort to, and get no help. This is important, and I think the Council of State came up with a lot of good things that it's working on. Then each of us gets to think about how we are, and how we can help them around us, and to help those who are seeking help get it when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e247	The interpellant has raised an important and serious debate. I will give tribute to the representative Ljunggren to address this question. When more than 500 people, many of them very young, choose to end their lives, this is a dramatic warning that our outer wealth is in sharp contrast to the inner pain many feel. The story of the individual people behind the numbers is what makes the strongest impression. These stories can also teach us something about what we can do differently from the authorities. The theme of the World Day for Suicide Prevention in 2006 was ‘Understanding Gives New Hope’. I think this is a good starting point for our political efforts to prevent suicide. The relationship between mental illness and suicide is well known. Studies from several countries suggest that about 90 pst. of those who take their lives have a mental disorder at the time of the suicide. The escalation plan for mental health has produced many important results in terms of strengthening mental health protection. In 2005, 43,426 children and young people received treatment in mental health protection. This is an increase of 110 pst. in relation to the level in 1998. There have been 391,000 outpatient conversations with adults with psychiatric disorders, i.e. an increase of 82 pst. in relation to the 1998 level. 75 new district psychiatric centers have been built to help patients get better help in their community. The Co-operation Board put the Roadmap for Mental Health on track. The Minister of Health and Welfare, Ansgar Gabrielsen, was the first to instruct health businesses that the growth of mental health protection should be stronger than in somatic care. It is very gratifying that the Brustad Government Council will pass this on in its newsletter to the regional health companies for the current year. Nevertheless, it is obvious that in many cases many of the quantitative results achieved are in stark contrast to the experiences of mentally ill people and their closest relatives. A study conducted by NOVA, which was reported in the Newspaper yesterday, shows that mental health in young people has worsened over a decade. In view of this, it is particularly alarming that the waiting time for children and adolescents who have started treatment in mental health protection increased from 86 days in the second tertiary in 2005 to 96 days in the second tertiary in 2006. The Council of State presented several measures that could help to improve mental health protection and the prevention of suicide. The national knowledge centre has recently published a summary of knowledge on prevention of suicide in report No. 4 - 2007. I expect the Council of State to ensure that this knowledge is translated into a better offer for the patients who are in the risk zone of suicide. I do not doubt the good intentions of the Council of State. Some of that she clearly expressed in her article. I'm glad, but the Right is impatient on behalf of the mentally ill. I have to say I was disappointed that the government proposed a slight increase in the appropriations for mental health protection for this year compared to the previous two years. It was also criticised by several consultation bodies during the budgetary hearings of the Health and Welfare Committee before Christmas. I would challenge the Council of State to guarantee that she will propose appropriations to ensure that we at least meet the financial objectives of the Road Safety Plan next year. Nor are we satisfied that the Minister of Health and Welfare has sent out a consultation proposal that mentally ill children and young people should be guaranteed assistance within three months. I agree with the Council when, in the evening post on 10 January 2006, she says that three months are unacceptablely long waiting times for these children, which she also repeated in her post here today. As the Right sees it, children and young people need to receive assistance within a medically sound time limit, set after an individual assessment, as required by the Patient Rights Act. If these provisions do not function as intended, the Council of State must follow this up with the health establishments. Another challenge is the lack of capacity utilisation of private contract specialists. On November 22nd, last year, I asked the Council of State whether there was an available capacity of private psychologists and psychiatrists who could be exploited to provide more rapid help to mentally ill people. The council then replied that she lacked an overview of this, but that she would work to chart it. Last week, the NRK News reported that private operators have free capacity but do not have contracts with healthcare companies. From the Right, we will assume that the Council of State will ensure that healthcare businesses make immediate use of this available capacity, so that mentally ill children, young people and adults can get faster help.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e273	First, I just have to say thank you to the interpellant, who takes up a serious topic. It's bravely done. I am surprised that this kind of debate comes up in this Chamber. We're talking too little about the serious stuff in this room. We're arguing about numbers and who did what when. The good discussion on the important issues I have partly missed, so this is a great occasion. It's almost impossible to believe that there are as many people who see suicide as the only way out of a situation. That young people who, as the interpellant himself says, have all the opportunities — the dessert generation, or what we should call it, who have this very purpose — cannot see that there is any other way to continue, are worrying. What's this really about? We have young people with role models that rush around and have to achieve absolutely everything we have to succeed with absolutely everything. We adults – I myself am the mother of three young people – have a great responsibility to be the good models that are present and offer ourselves. Where I live, in the municipality of Melhu, it is a married couple who have dedicated their lives to young people who are either without parents or have parents who have so many problems that they do not have caring ability either for themselves or for their children. They have a motto for their lives and for their deeds: See, hear and love. And that's how not all questions have a political answer. I think three months of waiting is long if you have a problem. Three hours is long if you have a serious problem. A short time ago we heard about a young man who chose to take his life on board a boat one hour after he was arrested. So one hour was too long. This family that I mentioned, who works very well and thoroughly with young people, says that everyone who enters the door of them should feel that they are seen, heard and loved. That's what this is all about. Parents, all neighbors and neighbors, teachers and adults really have one job, and that is that regardless of what they look like, no matter where they come from, regardless of sexual orientation or anything else, all children and young people – without exception – must get an experience of being seen, heard and loved. I don't think we can afford to get away from every suicide. But as it has been said here: I think we can do a lot by having a device that is there when they need it – a low threshold offer. That means we have to dry out talking about these things even outside of this hall. It was wonderful that the interpellant has made the teacher start a discussion in the classroom. We have to make sure that it's normal, even if you're really cool, 18 years old and just got a driver's license, to tell you if you're tired, tell you what you're struggling with -- not 100 pst. successful all the time. In fact, I think that's how every human being is 50 pst. All right and 50 pst. That's terrible. It's a balance. We're up, and we're down. But what makes this tipping the right way is that every day we experience being seen, heard and loved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e288	Increased pressure on children and adolescents may lead to depression and, in the worst cases, suicide. Psychiatric health is one of the areas that are kind of a stick in the society we live in, among other things. because the reasons are so complex. I want to pay tribute to the representative Ljunggren, who is raising this important debate, especially to focus on children and young people's mental health. As we have heard, NOVA figures show that suicide rates are increasing among young girls — 30 p.m. more from 1992 to 2002. More young people are depressed. Among the reasons why several girls have tried to take their own lives, one point out, among other things. three factors: increased use of alcohol — particularly alcohol — conflicts in the affected state and serious disputes with parents. Among the reasons why more people are depressed, one refers to weight problems and dissatisfaction with appearances. It's less acceptable to be different, and so it's easier to fall outside. The ideal is extreme, and many people have problems living up to these. Children and young people's growing-up environment is characterised by increased commercialisation, and they have become, to a greater extent, the target group for commercial bidding and purchasing pressure. Children and young people have little influence on the society they're part of. For the Christian People's Party, it is important to bet on prevention. Among the reasons why suicide increases among young girls, drug use and alcohol in particular is increasing. Every fifth child aged 12 to 14 years has been drinking alcohol. A total of 8 000 children in this age group drank regularly, showing figures from the MMI. Includes a 15-year-old, increasing the number of young alcohol users to a total of 28 000. This is frightening when we know that those who start early with alcohol also have a high alcohol consumption later in their youth. Among the reasons for high consumption, young people point out that there is a high level of drinking pressure. Here, a bet has to bet wide, among other things. through the free provision of leisure time for young people, awareness campaigns such as ‘Relax, now’ and an active alcohol policy. Young people need to be guaranteed low-threshold supplies. The school services need to be better and more accessible to students, and more professionals should be involved, such as psychologists, counselors, priests and child protection educators. The Youth Health Centre shall be an open service with professional guidance staff, where young people can seek health care, advice and guidance. VIP, the National Psychiatric Health Initiative in the School, is a good way to improve knowledge of mental health. What does youth need with mental illness? And how do we care when we see that someone wears out? The answers to these questions are important. Lack of interaction between levels of health services and between etats also takes place before psychiatry and in the encounter with children and young people who are tired. Interactions between health services in municipalities and hospitals need to be improved. This is particularly important in the transition between childhood and juvenile psychiatry and the adult psychiatry. Young people who are being treated in children’s and adolescents’s psychiatry often have to wait for treatment after they reach the age of 18. This could result in acute insertion, which would have been avoided if the transition had been planned. Responsibilities groups and individual levels are tools that could ensure a better follow-up, but unfortunately they are not always useful as they are thought. Such system failure must be avoided. Another transition one must focus on is when young people move from home when starting a study or transition to work. Many people may have problems setting up networks on new homes. Your own identity as the crop develops, and someone to talk to is crucial. Student health care needs to be strengthened, especially in view of the supply of mentally ill people. It has been a great deal of progress in recent years. One must also focus on better interaction between child protection and psychiatry. The mental health escalation plan must be followed up, with the specific strengthening of the paediatric psychiatry. The Christian People's Party aims to avoid waiting lists for children and young people suffering from mental illness by 2009. Children and young people suffering from mental illness need to secure treatment places in their own institutions or departments — in order to ensure a safe and dignified supply — where they can bypass people of their own age and with equal rates of disease. The NOVA study on suicide attempts and depressions among young people shows that the causes of mental problems among young people are compounded. Some factors may act as preventive factors; other factors may give rise to this risk. It requires a broad approach to finding solutions to these challenges. First of all, there must be good health services to ensure that those who need help get it. Secondaryly, it's about creating a society that gives each one room to be himself, and that family, school, work, etc. are set up so that people with different challenges are caught up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e310	The theme we are discussing today, namely suicide, is still a taboo area. It is therefore important, as others have said before today, that such interpellations as the representative of Ljunggren travel should also be the subject of this Chamber. Fortunately, the suicide rate in Norway is lower than in our neighbouring countries, but that life, not least young lives, is lost as a result of suicide is both sad and tragic, not least for the relatives. I fully agree with the interpellant that the help supply to the survivors is important. In principle, everyone shall have access to fixed and municipal psychiatry services after a neighbor has taken his or her life. I still think it's wise to organize other offerings as well. I know that some municipalities, especially in built-in districts, organize specific services. In spread-built struts, e.g. In Sogn and Fjordane, where I myself live, I know that organisations like LEVE, who have been mentioned before, organize group talks for the survivors after suicide in the whole state. Those who have used such offerings, as I know, have been largely satisfied that there is such an offer. But the big question here is what healthcare can do. We've heard a lot about what the neighboring ring and the neighboring call are going to do, but we also need some systematic solutions. The question is, what can health care do to reduce the rate of suicide? I believe that the main issue must be that one follows the intentions of the stepping-up plan to invest specifically in children and young people, and the second continues the development of the mental health centre at the local hospital level, DPS, in order to provide long-term and coordinated services to the outsourced individual, and thirdly, in health centres to provide young people with low-threshold services with special emphasis on lifestyle and mental health, and fourthly, that a bet on better services for drug addicts. Finally, I would just like to say that general policy – both national policy and not least active district policy – has an impact on the topic we are discussing today. I live as named in Sogn and Fjordane, and it's a happy fact that in this county there's much less suicide than in other states. At the same time, we know that there is a relatively low frequency of mental disorders in Sogn and Fjordane. Oslo, for example, is lying. 40-50 pst. over Sogn and Fjordane in the event of mental illness, and it is also common in Oslo with many mental disorders at the same time. It's not unnatural to see the frequency of mental illness and the frequency of suicide in context, which we're all probably a few of, but the big difference in the rate of suicide that I'm referring to should be interesting to look at. I am not aware that there are research results that have been shown to be associated for a longer period of time. That's why I'm going to ask the Council of State about these contexts that I'm pointing at is familiar with the ministry, and if so, how it's going to work on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e323	First of all, I would say that nothing is more tragic than when people come into a life situation where they see no other way out than to choose to end their own lives. That's why I would also like to thank the representative Ljunggren for now addressing the topic of suicide among young people, so that we can put the theme in focus and see what we in the community should do to reduce the number of suicides and attempted suicides. That is rarely a single reason for suicide. In most cases, suicide and suicide attempts are the result of several unfortunate factors, where mental illness is a significant but not sufficient explanation. Today, suicide is the most common cause of death among young men in Norway. Yesterday we could read on the front page of the Newspaper that the proportion of young girls who have tried to take their own life has increased by almost 30 pst. from 1992 to 2002, which Anna Ljunggren was also involved in. The number of young people with depressive symptoms has also increased sharply, especially among boys. Increased drug use — in particular alcohol — conflicts in the affected state and serious disputes with parents are highlighted as causes. Preachers at school and friends are also teasing young people's psyches. ‘You’ll have the right clothes, lots of friends and top characters. You're going to be something," says Heidi-Wibeke Bakkland, who is a member of the board of mental health youth. I agree with her – young people experience increasing pressure from more and more sides. Because the causes are so complex, I think we need both concrete measures and broad strategies against larger sections of the population to prevent suicide and attempted suicide. Prevention is a health care task, but very close to health care alone. In all environments, mechanisms such as exclusion, rejection, poverty, bullying, abuse, unemployment, infringement, etc. lead to suicidal thoughts. Prevention must therefore take place in many non-health areas: at school, at study places, in the workplace, in research institutions, in the police, in social affairs, in political work, in the care of the elderly, in housing planning, etc. Prevention is also about capturing young people and giving them an offer, especially those who are outside the field of sport. More specifically, prevention can be about school health services, where provision varies widely between municipalities and between different urban areas. In most places, several years’ work is needed in the school health service. There is a lot of good work in public health, but it is important that mental health is equated with physical health in this work as well. Health nurses should be available to children and young people, both for those with difficulties and to prevent them. Child and youth psychiatry is responsible for providing treatment services to children and young people under 18 years of age. In 2005, 1490 paediatric psychiatric patients with suicidal risk were registered as the main referral basis. Many also struggle with suicidal thoughts and impulses that may emerge in the course of treatment without being registered as grounds for referral. Fortunately, although few of these young people are in acute danger of taking their own lives, the assessment and follow-up of young people with such thoughts is an important area of childhood and youth psychiatry. But risk factors can only give a hint. There are also no reliable instruments for assessing the risk of suicide. One must ask. One must have an in-depth conversation. Help phones help you listen, to want to understand, to spend time and to be engaged with people who show you the ability to move on. It is good that we have such phones, and then everyone else needs to remember that we also have a responsibility to be more committed people, a responsibility to take that conversation and spend the time on those we see need it. Effective measures against alcohol and substance abuse, depression, sexual abuse of children, social isolation, solitude and mental disorders in general can also help prevent. Prevention is also achieved by reducing the availability of suicideicides and by reducing the number of sensational suicide press releases. It is also worth noting that many suicide attempts occur spontaneously. Based on studies addressing the effect of altered availability of commonly used suicidal methods, it can be assumed that the installation of obstacles leads to a decrease in overall suicide rates. It would be interesting to see if this is something you should bet more on. Finally, I would like to say that there is too much talk about all of them – those who don't get the best grades, those who have a different skin color, those who are unemployed, those who are not like us. We have to create a society where there is talk about us – not about us and them. It is also about prevention in the broadest sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e352	First of all, thank you for the interpellant for the theme you're about to review. I don't want to spend the time repeating what many others have said, because they say a lot of wise words here today. On the other hand, I want to try to shed light on things that have not been so focused on. First and foremost, alcohol and alcohol are a problem. Yes, of course it is. But you might have to dig a little deeper to understand the problem, and ask yourself, why is it that someone falls on the outside and seeks comfort with like-minded ones, among other things. through alcohol and alcohol? Why is it that someone falls on the outside? That's where the question lies. So you get comfort in one or the other, but that's why you end up on the outside, which is the real challenge. Norway has the longest waiting time in the Nordic region for paediatric psychiatry. Figures from the Norwegian Public Health Institute show that mental health problems in Norway cost us almost 100 billion dollars a year. Furthermore, it is quite clear that we are too little able to capture those who have mental health problems in time. There's a big challenge. Because it's like this for people who have the kind of problems, that once you've gone deep enough into a depression, the risk of this repeating itself becomes bigger and bigger for every time it happens. And how are we going to catch up with those who have these kinds of problems? I think it is clear that we should strengthen the provision of school health, but should we not find other and more structured forms of catching up with those who have a psychosocial problem? How are we going to get into kindergarten and school a competence that captures this problem in time? There's the big challenge, as I see it. It's very nice to say about the neighbouring nucleus. She's an important part of society, but I don't think the neighboring frenzy is able to capture this kind of problem where it's concerned, because we have to catch it up so early. If we don't get into a situation where we'll see a repetition in people who have a huge problem. This is also interesting to see related to bullying in school, because, as many say, there's a lot of connection. But when you see parents, relatives, who take up a bullying situation at school today, it's actually so that a large majority of those who deal with the bullying problem become bullying victims themselves. Then it's clear that here we have to actively go in and do something. We can't have it like this!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e365	Several have given praise to interpellant Anna Ljunggren, and there is every reason to do so, both because it is an important theme, and because it is difficult. It is often difficult to point to the reasons why people commit suicide, not least young people. I ate my ears when Anna Ljunggren said that she had contacted her teacher and asked him to have a conversation with a class around the theme – I did because I have experienced that very situation myself. As a doctor, I experienced that a young person took his own life because of grief, because the girlfriend had turned up the same day, and then the teacher just asked that the health care service was there, and that you had a conversation in the class afterwards. I think it was incredibly instructive to hear a whole class of 30 students come up with their innermost thoughts about how they even experienced a suicide in a 16-year-old. The boyfriend broke up, and then you killed yourself with a lot that afternoon. What the example also shows is that thinking that psychiatrists and psychologists could help this individual is not realistic. There, Anna Ljunggren is right when she uses the picture with the neighboring ring. There is, of course, the proximity to the situation, and the fact that young people are given the opportunity to be robust in the situation, which means that they will be able to survive. What the students then say is, we're angry at Thomas. Then I ask, why are you angry with him? Well, now he's given his girlfriend his guilt for the rest of his life. And they're right about that. You could say that the conversation in such a class situation makes many of these students, if they get in a similar situation, think that I don't have to do this, because it doesn't just happen to me, it affects those who remain. There are many good teachers in Norway who are able to conduct such conversations. Therefore, it is important that we do not institutionalise all the measures related to this. It also costs nothing, you don't get one penny in extra expenses by the teacher in a class situation addressing this issue to his students, provided he is sure about it. I think you can use the local health service much more in that kind of conversation than you do today. Most — it may be a health sister, it may be fixed, and there may be other health professionals — have been in these situations and have experience. Nor should we forget that the pastor often has experience. The pastor has had a conversation with the family afterwards and can communicate based on his impression. In the different communities, people who have been in the situation and who have knowledge from a prevention point of view are often used. My impression of psychiatrists and psychologists, as it is in practice three months' waiting time to get in, is that they become too exclusive. We have recently had a discussion where private psychologists are confronted with the fact that they do not take in very many new patients and that the waiting lists are long. They say it's a capacity problem. It is a type of exclusivity that the local health service cannot at all allow, because at the moment you get that kind of enquiry, you have to deal with it the same day. But it also gives you experience in these situations, which many psychiatrists may not get, because patients have to wait for many months. I record that this with tragedies in families was mentioned. They just used the term "family tragedy" attached to a family where three people were killed, on which the family father finally took his life. I saw that the newspaper had a leader on this, a type of consideration I agree with at least, where they say that we must stop using the term «family tragedy» about that. The fact that you kill three people before you kill yourself, we shouldn't interfere with a debate about suicide, where you're basically hurting yourself, but not threatening others. It creates a kind of impression of a legitimacy that is dangerous in public space, for some could get the wrong, misunderstood attitude that it's kind of a social acceptance for harming others. When you discuss suicide, I hope you're concerned that there's something quite different than the mechanisms that make you actually kill others. But again: Thanks to the interpellant for raising an important topic, which it is important to follow up on, including with soil-based measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e387	I want to join those who praise the interpellant for bringing up the theme of suicide. The theme is hard to pick up, because it's connected to grief, shame, guilt, and it's very difficult for those who are left to understand why their very closest take their own lives. We're also talking today about a group that was supposed to have life in front of it, but that seems to be so hard to live that death is the only answer. The fact that children up to the age of 10-12 choose this way out is something we have to take particularly seriously. As the Council of State says, the matter is difficult to deal with, because it affects so many fields – school, growth, environment, intoxication and many other things in society. Predictability as to who chooses to take her life is also not present, as apparently normally functioning, happy young people choose this way for some reason. That's why I think it's very hard to catch everybody. The reasons and reasons, as we have heard from this pulpit, are also very different from person to person. As the Council of State mentions, several measures are possible. But I want to bring out the health wards, which also several people have been in, and perhaps especially the health center for young people. The health centre for young people is that low-threshold offer. It's free, and it's there for the kids on their premises. I want to draw an example from Skien. There I have heard that they have a very good offer where they can capture several cases of threatening suicide. There is a psychologist present, and there they can take the difficult conversations. What's easy for us adults may not be so easy for the young, and they need help to move on. Offers like what they have in the Ski, and probably many other places, can prevent, prevent and detect what young people are struggling with. Measures can be put in place much earlier. But the challenge is to get the boys there. There are very often girls who accept such offers, because they have easier to talk. The school health service is another offer aimed at young people, but unfortunately not all places are as well developed or have good enough staff. Young people need such places of trust and time, including time for the good conversation. Therefore, it is important that municipalities focus on building up and offering the good arenas in the school health service. As the interpellant pointed out, there is a link between mental health — and the life situation of individuals — and suicide. However, it is probably utopian to think that we can manage to prevent all suicides, even if we put in lowthreshold services such as the health centre and the school health service and all the measures mentioned by the Council of State. A well-developed range of paediatric psychiatric services is needed. Time for conversations, being taken seriously, and finding out what's struggling, is a long process. But first you have to be willing to accept help or see that this problem is going to do something about it. We also need to be aware that many are struggling alone. I will also mention the many survivors who struggle with guilt and questions about what could have been done differently. What LIFE does in its campaign is to make this less difficult. What can be talked about and discussed and made more general can help those who are left. The survivors also need help, and they must be in a good position when suicide has first occurred. Schools, work, family and friends – I think everyone can contribute according to their responsibilities. Giving young people self-esteem, talking about it, as the representative Ballo says, drying up difficult issues, can help to make this more general. In our society, where success is a goal, and where appearance, job and career are what is measured, we politicians should be careful about what we signal. We have to give opportunities for inequality and diversity and not create feelings of guilt for young people so that they don't reach the goals we set. Again, this is an important topic to discuss. We as politicians can do ours. We can make arrangements, we can reveal, we can prevent and repair – at least the Council of State has shown that you are willing to take a roof and try to do something. But at the end of the day, it depends on whether the individual wants to seek help.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e410	This has been an incredibly important and great debate. Thanks to the interpellant! Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik said it so correctly: it's rarely one has such a serious and great debate in Stortinget on such an important topic. We often stand out of this pulpit and have to be world champions in percentage and billions. This debate is about so much, much more. Life is very difficult for many. We are all faced with great demands, but most difficult for those who stand on the threshold of adult life. You're going to look great, weigh exactly the right way, preferably be without squats as well. You're going to have the right clothes, the latest sports equipment, and you're going to be very much like them, with the right friends. And not least you should be able to work well at school, yes, be such a good fit. Don't hang by, for all things, but don't stand out by being the doll in class. Several speakers here have pointed to the neighbor, and she is important, well to notice if she is at home and has surplus to care. If she dares then, for we are so afraid to get involved in something unpleasant. But we have to care, we have to be there. In an article in the newspaper on February 3, Ole Rikard Haavet wrote, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t "The 15-year-old boy in front of me who doesn't feel any hope for his life, and his father, who together has visited me because I'm the guy's regular, is not the first in this situation to express his powerlessness. There are many similar stories. The boy's problems are played back to himself and otherwise fat under the carpet." We can only imagine how the young boy or girl has felt before he or she chooses to end life – a life that has not yet begun. We must never forget the relatives, the loved ones who are left with thousands of questions that they never get an answer to. We who are parents and grandparents, must be present, care about, encourage grandchildren and children to talk about things. And we have to give a lot of praise, give the young confidence, say more often that you're eely, you can, you're nice. I am pleased that the Council of State takes this problem seriously and makes several proposals for solutions. We've heard of the child and youth psychiatry that needs resources. Yes, but I honestly think it's getting a little bit small in such a serious debate trying to score party political points. When it comes to preventing suicide, we must stand together, be fellow human beings – not party politicians at such a time. In fact, the party-political superpowers have to be put on the booth. We have to be there, we have to be there for each other. That's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e430	It's a social danger signal when a significant number of young people in that phase of life will normally think that you're most concerned with expectations of the future and have the most appetite for life, are gripped by such a fundamental despair that they find no other way out than the exit door. That should worry us all. It also suggests that it is important to intensify research in this area in order to try to identify the factors driving young people into such situations. You say very often that children and young people have never had it so well before, and it's always a sign that the person who says it is approaching the year of dust. What you forget to add is that it also applies to all other generations in today's society that we have never had it as well before – that is, in terms of the goods that can be counted and measured and weighed and taxed in dollars and ears. At the same time, the truth is that it's never been harder to grow up than it is in today's society, because you spend so much longer on it than you did before. In old society, the transition between childhood and adulthood was very simple, clear and transparent. To put it at the top of the table, it took exactly one hour, from entering the firmament service to coming out. When you went in, you were defined as a child, when you got out, you were an adult. And both roles were clearly defined socially. The expectations expressed by the environment were as clearly defined when you were a child, as they were clearly defined when you were an adult. Today you spend 15 years covering that distance, and in that period of life you're neither a child nor an adult, but the environment treats you for one moment as a child and in the next moment as an adult. It creates a rather uncertain identity. At the same time, we invest more in children and young people than we've ever done, but it's always in their thoughtful future that we invest. We keep them in the education system a lot longer than ever before, and we do it in good sense, in the belief that it will give them a better adult life. But no one can have their identity placed in the future if you don't have an identity here and now – just as little as a retired person can have his identity placed in the past and be present. As human beings, we are designed to live in our own present time all the way. After all, the point with children and young people is not primarily that they are potential adults. They are too, but the point is that they are children, and that childhood has its own value regardless of what it might be later in life. We, as parents and grandparents, need to invest a lot more in thinking about how we send wrong signals, and how we can help send the right signals that give children and young people an experience of being meaningful here and now and not just once in the future. People who have a self-image of respect will also have respect for other people, because there are two sides to the same thing. Safety in relation to other people requires that you are safe on yourself and that you have a self-image that you can live with every day. It represents a huge challenge in our kind of society. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State will continue to work along the lines she pointed to in her answer. But I also think it is right at last to stress that we need to get a better offer for those children and young people who are in critical health situations mentally. We need to invest in creating a system where people don't risk getting on a waiting list for months to get in at all to the expert help.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e441	I would like to thank all those who have contributed here today to a very good, concrete, thought-provoking and reflective social debate. I am very pleased that this has become a broad debate on drug abuse, alcohol abuse, social skills in schools, safe and good teachers, neighbouring women, school health services, absenteeism, and also a debate that those who are outside the organized leisure services in the municipalities also need help. Just because there are so many causes of suicide, there are also a lot of answers, and that includes many aspects. Our society has changed dramatically over the past 50–60 years. In many ways, society has improved, and in some ways it has become worse. It's harder to be lonely. I don't think we're going to change society in all the areas where it's getting worse today, but we've come a long way with measures like that being free: caring, being a good neighbor, and being a safe and good teacher. I don't think we can completely eliminate suicide, but as long as more people who ask for help get it, and more people who are far down are picked up, I'm satisfied. Through the debate, we have also been informed that we, as politicians, can do something. We can follow escalation plans, and we can allocate more money to the school health service. I am sure that our Minister of Health will follow up. I want to repeat what the representative Dag Ole Tegen said: Let it be us, not them!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e452	I will join the summary of the representative Ljunggren now. I also think it has been a very good debate. Just getting a debate where we dare talk loud about this, I also believe that it is a contribution to trying to do something about it. I also think that many good ideas have emerged in this debate that we want to take with us further. What everybody has seen is that there are no simple answers, because there are so many reasons why this happens. It's usually also completely incomprehensible when it happens. The representative Eng and more with her have been involved in this debate on human relations. Obviously, you have to remember each other all the time. We don't solve everything that the representative Ballo was into, in psychiatry or that kind of thing, but what we have to remember is that we all have a responsibility. We have to care. I think having different lowthreshold services for young people, for example. having offers that are open beyond evening hours, as well as strengthening what is happening, inter alia. in school, is unusually important. Having conversation groups, not least for survivors who are obviously also in a risk zone in relation to this, is a very important input. Volunteers also make considerable efforts in this important area. Then I think what Ljunggren picked up, and that Ballo also followed up – what role the school can play, and the interaction between health professionals locally, priests and teachers – is a very good idea to continue working with. I think that at least is one of many concrete things in this debate that we should follow up and see if we can get organized, not by adopting it here, but by trying to encourage more people to talk properly and soberly about so difficult things, because we know something that it might matter. Then the representative was Wage and many others said we don't know enough. We need to do more research. It's quite obvious. We've gained some more knowledge. We have to use that positive. We know that for many, it's so that it can be associated with mental problems of different kinds. I want to say to the representative that Sjøli raised in particular: the government is busy being able to exploit all the good people in the psychiatry to help both children, young people and adults. That's also why we're now going through the role of contract specialists. We want them more into the specialist health service, so that everyone is involved in taking responsibility, not just for the simpler things, but also for the more complicated things. That's often what we're talking about. Then I would also like to say on behalf of the Government that this government is going to follow the escalation plan and give the amount that we have promised will also be given in this period. There must be no doubt about it. So it's important for me to stress that if young people need urgent help, they'll get it. Then they won't be on the three-month list. But as I said in my main post, the government will come back in the near future with a special waiting guarantee, to cut the waiting time. Then we get plenty of opportunity to discuss it as well. But I think this has been a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e469	The interpellation debate is therefore finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e487	The patient journal is literally a vital tool in health care work. Therefore, there is reason to stress that the approach angle to this interference is not primarily to point to all the hazards and problems associated with the storage of sensitive information. It is equally important to ensure systems and working procedures which can guarantee that the information is available at the appropriate time and place. There are quite a number of studies dealing with mistreatment and accidents in specialist health services. Taking into account the figures used in international research, this concerns many thousands of cases per year in Norwegian hospitals. The proportion of these accidents and maltreatments due to a lack of information for those taking treatment measures is uncertain, but there is reason to believe that a not insignificant proportion is related to the fact that the necessary information is not available at the critical time and at the place where it should have been available. In a modern, highly specialised healthcare system, there are far more categories of staff involved with the individual patient than before. The organisation of hospital activities will also involve much greater staff replacement at all times, which means that more and more people need to access the information stored in the course of a patient’s life. The transition from paper to electronics obviously involves many technical advantages. It makes it much easier to store large amounts of information than it was before, and it makes it, above all, much easier to transport the information quickly and efficiently. It also creates entirely new opportunities for transporting information between hospitals in different parts of the country. Of course, in terms of the quality of patient treatment, all this is a step forward. At the same time, these technical advances, like all other technical advances, also have a backside: the potential for abuse will also increase. The more information is stored about the individual patient, the greater the potential for abuse if the information is held elsewhere than it should. We have had some cases that have created media lookups during the last year. I'll just mention some headlines. The evening post wrote in May 2004 under the heading «Employees snooping in patient records» on cases related to the University Hospital in North Norway. The director of the University Hospital, Knut Schrøder, stated very clearly and clearly that the problem had a significant scale, and that he had initiated new procedures and measures at the hospital to ensure that he could avoid future abuse on the part of employees. In the Health Review there was a look in May last year under the heading ‘To snoop easily in patient journals in Bergen’. It refers to a case where the Data Protection Agency, the local health authority of Hordaland and the State Health Authority jointly issued a very critical report to Health Bergen, where they pointed to several serious defects and deficiencies. It was noted that the electronic patient records are not properly protected from the transparency of employees who do not have a legitimate need for the information. It was pointed out that the system of post-control of who has been in and checked up in a patient record is not sufficient. It was noted that the back-testing cannot replace a pre-restriction of access compared to staff who should not have such access. It was further pointed out at the end of the report: ‘There is reason to believe that such problems also exist in other health establishments because the poor protection of confidentiality-related information is linked to the construction of the computer systems, which are poorly adapted to an organisation where health professionals work across posts, sections and departments.’ Last month we had news coverage in the media about similar problems related to Ahus. There's reason to think that the news releases that reach the media are just like the top of the iceberg. I see two major challenges. One is to ensure that the computer systems, the technical solutions chosen, are as safe as possible. There could reasonably be a dispute between the cost considerations, what is expensive solutions and what is cheaper technical solutions. However, in this area it should be clear that it is necessary to use the resources to secure the best and safest technical solutions. This can't be an area to save money. The second is the question of whether the staff have clear enough guidelines, and whether good enough procedures have been developed to prevent patient information from drifting away. Both components, both ensuring optimal technical solutions and ensuring that staff have clear instructions, are to a large extent management responsibilities. My question to the Council of State is whether she can guarantee that this management responsibility is really taken as seriously as it is required. In other words, those who are in charge of individual hospitals and health businesses place sufficient emphasis on this both when choosing technical solutions and when training and re-training the different categories of staff. Once upon a time, our entire healthcare system is based on a tacit trust agreement between the doctor and the patient, and that trust agreement is that patients should be able to trust 100 pst. that the information provided by the patient and the information provided by the physician through health studies are not used for anything other than the overall purpose of ensuring that the patient receives the best possible treatment. If media lookups give the impression that there is a significant degree of uncertainty associated with being treated in Norwegian hospitals, it is clearly to the detriment of the basic relationship between patients and health workers. Therefore, it is an extremely important issue to ensure that the quality of patient data processing is as good as it can be obtained at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e518	The representative's salary has asked me to answer what I would like to do to ensure that the patient's privacy is better protected through the safe storage of patient records. This is an important question, and the monitoring carried out by the Health Archive Committee in the spring of 2005 shows that patient records are on the wane at all times. Of course, that's not good. In recent years, the media review of poor security of information in electronic patient records has also been carried out by the representative on the pay side. Ahus. The surveillance revealed that too many people had access to information from patient records, without having a real need for this information. Not long ago we could read in the media that patient documentation was thrown into an open container in Oslo. I am also deeply concerned that this can happen despite the fact that we have strict rules of professional secrecy as well as the retention and processing of patient information. A huge amount of patient records are stored in paper and electronic format in Norwegian hospitals. To give a picture of what we are talking about, I can tell you that according to the Health Archives Committee, there were 120 000 meters of patient records in Norwegian hospitals in the spring of 2005. If you put these journals in order, they would range from Oslo to Lillehammer. Many of the patient records that have been surveyed contain information on persons who have died too far. It is important that this information is handled in an appropriate manner as well. They shall be ensured against unjustified transparency, while retaining part of this information for subsequent research. It goes without saying that we can't keep all the material that is produced, that will be produced, for posterity. It is at least equally important that the information not to be retained be destroyed in a reassuring manner. I'll make sure that happens in the next follow-up. There will always be a difficult balance in this area between the need to ensure the transparency of records by other healthcare professionals and others who do not need the information and the need to ensure that healthcare professionals have good and fast enough access to patient information to help the patient with the best possible treatment. It is a difficult balance because it is difficult to satisfy both concerns when establishing fast and secure systems. The specialist healthcare establishments are obliged to ensure that the record-keeping and information systems of the establishments are sound and take care of the different considerations, and I agree with the representative on the salary that this is a management responsibility. So a little bit more about the health professionals' rules on professional secrecy. The rules shall ensure that only those who need information about patients in the service have access to such information. Health professionals are known to have a duty to preserve silence about what they are told about the patient as the job they have. Health professionals shall not only be silenced on matters they become aware of, they shall also actively prevent others from having access to, or knowledge of, such information. It is clear from the Health Care Act. The rules we have, should really be good enough and clear enough to ensure that there is no undue transparency in patient information, but here it is, unfortunately, in this area where there are other areas, that no matter how good the legislation is, one depends entirely on compliance. Unfortunately, it doesn't always happen. However, legislation may also have weaknesses in the process, both because society is changing and because of technical progress. An example of such a weakness may be that it is not explicitly stated in today’s provisions on professional secrecy that it is prohibited to seek information in patient records without the need for such information. There shall be no doubt that seeking or receiving information on patients is prohibited without the need for the health care to be provided. That is why, as soon as possible, I will send to the hearing a proposal for an addendum to the Health Care Professional Act to seal this hole. Infringements of professional secrecy may, as you know, be punished by imprisonment or by fines. Under the Health Care Act, provision is also made for administrative responses, such as warning or withdrawal of authorisation. I am of the opinion that clarification in the provision of professional secrecy, as I have just described, is probably the measure that will be most visible to healthcare professionals, and hopefully preventive in relation to improper access to patient information. So a little bit more about the patient journal systems themselves. Regardless of whether patient records are kept in paper or electronic form, of course, proper patient record-keeping systems must be established. The switch to electronic patient records in recent years has given us some additional challenges, as the representative also describes Wage. And that is all reason for concern when health company oversight reports show that too many employees have access to electronic patient records without actually needing it. Of course, electronic patient records make it easier to obtain information, because such records are available to several people at the same time, regardless of where in the hospital one is. It is clear that easy accessibility allows a rapid search for the necessary information, such as x-ray and probation, which is important for the patient. But while access is to be good enough, one must also ensure technically that the records are not exposed to unauthorised access, by establishing barriers for those who are not to have access. There is no doubt that many hospitals have not come far enough. Being able to track who has been in a journal, by means of a logging, is also a way of preventing unauthorised access. Such a law will also be a tool to control who has sought information in the patient records. I will also follow up on the State strategy for electronic cooperation in the health and social sector, known as the 2007 Interaction. During the last year, regional health enterprises issued a joint study on electronic access, exchange and sharing of patient-oriented information between health enterprises and within enterprises. The overall functionality of healthcare implies that the necessary health information must be available to healthcare professionals to provide healthcare to the patient. The Directorate has assessed the investigation and reported that one should look at possible IT solutions that could allow for easier communication of patient information than today. The Directorate for Social Affairs and Health has also established a standard for information security in the health sector. This standard shall complement the laws, regulations and circulars we already have and shall assist the information security work of each establishment. Furthermore, the Directorate has sent out a circular on access to and disclosure of information in electronic patient records. The circular clarifies the requirements of the legislation for silence-related health information and how it should be handled in an electronic patient system. I think the circular can be a good tool and a good guide for those who are going to deal with information that is silent. I assume that health professionals take time to read through this circular, and I will of course take it up with regional health companies. I have also taken action directly against the companies in the past. At the company meeting in 2006, regional health enterprises were asked to ensure that a common understanding and strategy for risk and vulnerability analysis within information and communication technologies is established. They were also asked to put in place the necessary measures to improve information security if necessary. In a very short time, in the business meeting for the current year, I am going to demand that regional health care companies provide for the phasing out of old technology and electronic patient journal systems that do not meet today's needs. This was also reported in the National Health Plan, which provided the State budget for 2007. We will also introduce a system of national approval of the standard for electronic patient records systems, and suppliers shall be obliged to use this standard in the systems they provide. Today there is no requirement for such standards. We also need, as we see it, common information and communication solutions that enable the actors in the service to have access to up-to-date information in conjunction with the user and patient. This may include, inter alia: is done by creating a so-called national core file. This means that one has a sample of information for a special purpose that is accessible to several, and then it can be supplemented by the information necessary for health status and contact persons, i.e. a breakdown of the information. Finally, I would like to mention that the Directorate and the Department are now going to have regional collections where this is the topic, and both health companies and private hospitals are being invited. I think it's important. To propose an explicit ban in the Health Care Professional Act on unfair access to patient records, to follow-up work already undertaken, to conduct several seminars in this area, and that other information material should now be out – and we will help companies to follow it further – hope that we can make a good contribution to ensuring that no one obtains unfair access to patient information.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e558	I thank the Council of State for a detailed and good answer. I mainly share the opinion that today's law should be comprehensive, but consider it very positive that the Council of State wants to clarify the obligation of professional secrecy. It is very important, as the Council of State stressed, to find that the obligation of professional secrecy is not only an obligation for individual employees not to actively misuse or leak information to unauthorised persons but that it is also an obligation to do what is possible to prevent others from misusing information. I think maybe this is the most important point. Because in all major businesses it will be that in everyday life you are busy keeping the wheels going, you are busy making sure that everything that is going to happen happens, and it is easy to become so that care requirements that relate to the handling of sensitive information go into the forgetbook. It should be part of the new employee, so to speak, getting trained at the same moment they are employed by a hospital institution, that fixed programs are being created to inculcate this, so that no one can be in doubt about the obligations of the taushet promise that has been signed. I think that might be the most important thing. I am pleased that the Council of State also stressed so strongly that this is and must be a management responsibility, and that there is no place to anchor it other than the individual director of the individual hospital institution. Then I also find it very positive that the Council of State will develop a national standard regarding the IT solutions to be chosen. I also see the importance of getting IT solutions to enable communication across health companies. I know that today there is a great deal missing from the fact that this is the case. But the more you invest in making communication as efficient and painless as possible, the more you need to stress the care of those who have to handle the machines.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e567	I perceive that the inter-pellant and the undersigned agree on the objective, and that we must have both a regulatory framework and – not least – a practice that ensures compliance. So I want to follow up on what has now come up, and what I have said. I also think it is important to make sure that all new staff in the health sector are properly informed about what legislation actually applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e574	The fact that patient records are straying is a known problem — whether they are electronic patient records, whether they are patient records in paper form, or what they are. Many governments and state councils have had the opportunity to do something about this problem. That is why I am pleased that the Council of State Sylvia Brustad has addressed the problem and is looking at how to solve it already this year. Despite strict rules on how patient information is to be stored and used, there is an ongoing breach of the current regulations. Why should we keep such information? This is in order for healthcare professionals to provide the fastest possible and best possible diagnosis and treatment of patients receiving treatment at individual institutions. The balance between privacy on the one hand and the need for good treatment on the other is difficult. The Council of State warns that the business meeting in 2007 will require health businesses to provide for the phasing-out of old technologies that do not meet current needs and requirements. I think it's important that one not only does it, but also that the different healthcare companies invest and maybe develop common systems, that there is not a competition between individual companies about who is the best, but that one jointly uses the research, technology and knowledge that exists to find the best possible solutions. It is important, as the Council of State points out, that it is necessary to log who is inside the individual patient records, to see if they actually have something to do there. For there are not only strict rules and requirements; one must also be able to control who is inside and why they are inside. Do they need to review the individual records, or are there other things they are looking for in obtaining patient information? That is why I think it is necessary to require these regular checks, regardless of which health institution they are. As I said, balances between privacy and important and necessary health information are difficult. Instead of limiting such information, it is important that a person takes action to improve the safety of all patient information, including through: what the Council of State points to in its response, better information for health professionals, the development of new and better technical solutions and the availability of control systems through the logging of those involved in the individual records. It is important that we have solutions that provide the patient with security of privacy in relation to the information that is stored and who will obtain that information. At the same time, the patient must be confident that the information provided by health professionals also provides the individual patient with a good treatment for the diseases that one has at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e587	The interpellant addresses a very important issue in its interpellation. Unfortunately, these are also issues that have emerged at regular intervals in recent years, in fact over a number of years. I also want to give the Council of State a boost here, which is clearly gripping this discussion and will actually try to do something about it. It shows that you want to get rid of it in my opinion, the obscenity that is out there because you don't think well enough in the daily routines you have, and not least what kind of responsibility you actually have as a health care professional against this. And then we're not going to ignore that when we get electronic records in place, there's going to be other possibilities. It will open up opportunities related to having a password limited access to perhaps parts of the journal, linked up against, I kept saying, a "need to know" base, i.e. what you need to know, further down in the organisation, but at the same time the treatment staff has the full and complete overview, which is important to have at all times. But we should not forget that until we have it in place, we have great challenges. Because there are difficult amounts of information that lie in the systems that we have per. Today, and that's the part we have to look at a little bit about how we're going to be able to deal with in the future. One is, of course, that we have routines in place at all times. I don't think the big problem necessarily is that you, I kept saying, deliberately leave off a journal somewhere, or don't think about what you're doing. I think it's probably carelessness that makes a difference. It's easy to lay off the journal while you're working on something, and when you get back, others have had access to this information. So I think it's at the routine level you really have to take action here now, so you get rid of the problem itself. It is also important that we look at what is involved in the technical solutions, especially now in a transitional phase, when going from written records and possibly to electronic records. There will be major challenges, and there will be major challenges that will take time to find solutions. Firstly, there will be situations in which journals that we already have today are to be introduced into the new system. There is also a need to find technical solutions for the types of databases to be used and the main solution. Who is it that's going to be able to get in and see in the journal, how are we going to limit this, how many firewalls are we going to have to have in order to secure ourselves in the future against the break-in of the systems? Here are a number of things that need to be solved, and then it's actually important to use the power of ownership that you have to enter and govern, so that we have the same system wherever in the treatment chain you are, and so that you can also transfer information in a society where patients also move, so that the imagery that can be put into this follows the written material, and not least that we have a traceability system that makes it quite obvious that we can go in and find out: who is it that's inside the journal? But then it's also important that we just have our computer systems in place, so that once you get into a system via your computer, there must also be a system that allows you to automatically log out of the system if you don't sit and use that computer over a certain period of time, just so you don't have to get into the situation that the next person who comes down and sits down and works on the same computer, feels that the previous person's documents are open. This is very important that we have clear and proper control. So I'm looking forward to the state council taking hold of these things. In fact, it is reassuring that the Council of State takes this seriously, but it is time for us to have the big challenge in the future. How do we solve this, and, not least, how do we solve it so that we have the security of health care professionals with the information to be provided, while at the same time ensuring that the patient has good routines that make sensitive patient information unbalanced? I'm looking forward to getting a proper solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e600	I see it as the interpellant takes up two completely central issues in its interpellation. One is the patient journal as a tool for good patient treatment, that the information is available in such a way that it can be used both in diagnostics and in treatment – that is one piece. The second piece is that the information is treated as it is, namely person-sensitive information which is subject to confidentiality and which is not to be accessed by unauthorised persons. Both are important. What I think gives cause for concern is that the debate on electronic records has been going on for very many years. If you look at the story, you can see that the first electronic data storage started at the beginning of the 1970s, but unlike what you should believe, it came from municipalities and not hospitals. I record that the first available electronic computer system in Norway in healthcare was the Balsfjord system, which was developed precisely for primary health services in Balsfjord, a municipality at Storsteinnes in Troms, with three doctors, Arnulv Eide, Roar Johnsen and Toralf Hasvold. It was developed in cooperation with the University of Tromsø as early as 1976, and it was taken into practical use in 1980. That system worked well. In fact, the systems that have replaced it have been built over the same reading in many ways. There have been some more sophisticated ways of processing the data, but basically there are systems that are very similar, by entering a text, storing laboratory responses and other data, and thus having an electronic journal that is available. What is to be thought of is that, for example, doctors – like me – who were trained in the early 1980s and have worked most of their lives until now in primary health care are hardly used to anything other than working with electronic records. I believe that today, as far as I am aware, there are no doctors who do not have an electronic computer system available. So, 25 years after it became common, when you talk to doctors in Norwegian hospitals, they're still sitting with a dictaphone, and they're talking about so much time if they were to write that journal themselves, that they won't go into it. What we are facing in the hospital sector is a conservatism with regard to the use of new electronic tools that can hardly be imagined. Some of the worst are my own profession, the doctors, simply because those who have been in the system for a very long time, have not learned the benefit of a completely self-evident tool. What you can experience when you get into a doctor's office in a hospital is that patient records are stacked on the office desk, so you hardly see the doctor behind it, and then you're surprised at the next time, when you're going to an outpatient clinic, that the paper file is not available. It is clear that this is problematic from both of the areas I mentioned in the introduction and in which the interpellant has been involved. This means, first, that data are not available when the patient is going to have follow-up treatment, but it also means that sensitive information is available in a way that they should not be. In fact, as far as the development of electronic tools within the hospital system is concerned, this development cannot occur from below. To that is the resistance too great. It looks like you have to take the overall grip and tell them that they no longer live in the Stone Age, but that the electronic age has come too far. In many ways, the hospital services in Norway live in the electronic stone age. It is clear that securing patient data is much easier when stored electronically, because you can have routines for it, and you can protect the data. Of course, it can also be misused by much easier loading over electronic data a lot, but basically it is that electronic systems require routines. It requires the approval of the Data Protection Authority and there are reprobable procedures along the way. So this is where health businesses have to face up to today's reality, and then you have to use resources to get this in place. One side we haven't discussed here is the economic implications. The lack of good practice and so little use of electronic tools in hospitals also costs enormously, as a result of not finding the necessary data, often having to retake blood samples, often having to re-examine X-rays, etc. – and within a sector that annually burns NOK 75 billion.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e613	The patient record is essential in providing the patient with adequate health care. The history of disease and the monitoring of symptoms, risk factors, family conditions and test responses are of great importance for the treatment to be implemented. This is crucial especially for patients who cannot account for their own medical history. Furthermore, the patient record plays an important role in documenting which treatment is given, at what time, and by whom. These conditions call for the journal to be available to those who need it in the course of treatment. On the other hand, accessibility helps to obtain it from unauthorised persons who are not required to have access to the file. The information in the patient records is of a sensitive nature. Often, the information is provided in a situation based on trust between treatment and patients. That is why we have strict rules on professional secrecy. However, patient information on a weighing basis may have a significant impact on the individual concerned. In particular, the debate on the transparency of insurance companies in the patient records of people is made visible. It is therefore important that patient records are subsequently treated. The switch from paper-based patient journals to electronic journals helps to reduce a not uncommon problem with paper-based journals, namely that they are being weighed down. The availability of the journal in question is a good thing for the patient and facilitates the work of health professionals. Nevertheless, there is an alarming notice in the newspapers that the unsolicited person can read the records without their right to do so. Report on the supervision of the confidentiality and availability of electronic patient records at Akershu University Hospital, carried out by The state health surveillance and the 2006 Data Protection Authority are thus alarming. The oversight revealed two deviations. One showed that Akershus University Hospital does not ensure that the privacy-related personal data of the electronic patient record system DIPS is properly protected from the transparency of employees who do not have a legitimate need for the information. Among other things, it was found that the systems of random peer-reviewing in journals were cumbersome and time-consuming. The second finding showed that the hospital had not carried out systematic risk assessments in relation to the protection of electronic patient records. DIPS is the electronic journal system Health East has chosen to bet on for hospitals in the region. Health surveillance in Oslo and Akershus received a statement of concern in 2004 that the system was not secure against unauthorised access. It has also been reported that there have been repeated incidents where the whole system has been down and, as a result, the record information has been unavailable to treatment personnel. Health care must be provided in such a way as to satisfy both the requirement of professional soundness and the obligation of professional secrecy. The obligation of professional secrecy under the Health Care Professional Act Section 21 implies that healthcare professionals and businesses have an active obligation to prevent others from accessing patient information. Section 16 of the Health Register Act requires the controller to provide adequate information security with regard to confidentiality, integrity, quality and accessibility through planned and systematic actions. I am pleased that the representative Wohnning has focused on the need to ensure better privacy with regard to patient records. It is essential that sick people can get help without fear of sensitive but nevertheless important information about them emerging.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e630	First, I want to say that this interpellation actually has quite a timing compared to the Greatness discussed in the previous week in connection with Document No. 8:14 for 2006-2007, and Odelstinget’s treatment of Ot.prp. No 49 for 2005-2006, just how sensitive health information on the individual patient and privacy was is. Then we've come to the patient records, and they're undoubtedly the largest collections of sensitive and reliable information about individuals. These are information which is obviously necessary for the medical treatment and must be available to those who are required to have treatment functions. Without access to such information for those who should, and need it, a natural challenge to the defence of the health care itself is, of course, to avoid it. The challenge is to limit access to this information to just those who need it. There are several cases that have been mentioned here today, and as we all know, which have shown that unfortunately it is not a proper system, cork technical or – I would also point out – organisational, which prevents third parties from having access to and access to patient records. The supervisory authorities have established that an important reason is — and it has not been mentioned so much here today — that the structure of computer systems is poorly adapted to an organisation where health professionals work across posts, across sections and across departments. The fact is that this organisation, which is quite common in very many health care agencies, helps to ensure a high level of responsibility for very sensitive personal data do not achieve goals. In my opinion, it is alarming that in particular healthcare professionals have been so absent from their redeploying careers. I would like to ask the Council of State directly about these key issues, their obligations to pay attention and privacy, is the theme that is explicit in the discussions in the corporate meeting, and, if so, in what form these elements are reflected in the subscription documents. The old paper-based patient journal is not a better traveler than the electronic patient journal, rather on the contrary. I guess we've got good descriptions of that before today. But the challenge we are facing is that access to modern patient records must be regulated. Nevertheless, the system is also substantially based on trust. But there has to be a system that restricts access, and sanctions have to be established against those entering patient records without needing it. I think it was in 2005 or 2006 that it was a serious case that the sneaking of a set-up in a health care establishment in Northern Ireland was discovered. The subject apparently had no motive other than to be curious, but the subject had both seen and read sensitive information for which it is mandatory. I mean to think that the guilty person wasn't under the current law, and so he didn't get any punishment. If the current legal rules are not good enough, that is. that if such a look without legitimate cause does not give rise to legal sanctions, I believe that this story, this event, tells us that there is a need to change the law. I would like the Council to comment on this particular issue. Of course, the system and control, including the possibility of sanctions, are not enough. Long-term and continuous efforts to raise awareness of employees and to build good attitudes about the handling of the perhaps most sensitive information available about individuals in a society need to be much more focused than today. The responsibility for a satisfactory privacy within this sector is, of course, a responsibility for the management. The very top leader of health care services is the Council of State. I perceive the state council's posts today so that she takes this responsibility very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e649	This debate has been marked by a high degree of consensus. Sometimes it may be good that it is not the party political differences and markings that characterise the debate here in the Chamber, but that it is the consensus on important issues. The representative, Ballo, had an interesting look at the differences between the degree of technical up-to-dateness of primary health services — i.e. that of primary doctors and those of hospitals. He did well when he said the hospitals were living in the electronic stone age. I'm going to think you've come to the bronze age in at least most places. But he is quite obviously right in that there are considerable differences, and he is probably also right in his diagnosis of what causes this. Only at one point will I reserve myself, because he used the term "conservatism" in a way that I don't appreciate, namely, as a description of – I had almost said – the spinal cord reflex that consists of opposing changes in this world. I would prefer to call that by other names than exactly 'conservatism'. However, in substance, the attention of the representative, Mr Ballo, is important. He also had another important point: that when discussing the economy in this context, it should not be forgotten that while there may be significant investment costs in choosing optimal technical solutions, operating costs are much larger by not choosing good and efficient solutions. If this is seen in a larger economic context, it is clear that it will also be good financial management for hospitals to choose the best technical solutions. Finally, let me repeat that I consider the response of the Council of State to be very positive and very satisfactory, and look forward to her following in action the promises she has made in terms of tightening up management responsibilities and strengthening the training function of all aspects of the specialist health service with regard to the care and care of the duty of confidentiality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e659	It is not in every debate that we experience that there is broad consensus, but I have, like the representative, the reward, experienced in this debate, and it is good in such an important matter. And then I also agree with the representative's salary in relation to what Ballo said here, that it's clear that there are challenges in the hospital system related to this and related to using electronic tools, but it's far from some rock age. New things are being developed that have come much further than what we find in a part of the primary health service, but it is not the most important thing here. The important thing is that we have a very clear set of rules. But it'll get better. I can assure you that we will send an express ban on unauthorised access to patient records at the hearing, as requested. We will ensure that personnel are adequately informed about both legislation and how it is to be practised, and what happens if it is not practised in the way it should. We also need to make sure that it is made even more informational for all those who should know more about this, that we get a standardisation of knowledge solutions, so that we have better control, that we are now conducting seminars and gatherings with those involved in hospitals, including private ones, and that of course we are also going to use the business meetings when appropriate, to ensure that this is followed up. I'll guarantee that this is going to be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e666	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e684	Today’s interpellation concerns something that was very central to the 2005 election campaign. The question of filled or empty swimming pools occupied people, and the ‘swimming hall index’ became a concept. I was one of those who thought it was exciting that the Workers' Party would go out with the campaign 'We're going to fill up!'. One should not have much insight into the problem to realize that this promise would cost a little. However, a small roll of bathing around life at an empty pool became a strong picture. It created expectations. Access to swimming pools occupied people. It should take care of the Storting too. I'll elaborate on that. I could not, however, dare to find out how the Workers' Party's 'We shall fill up!' promise from the election campaign, and contacted the Norwegian Swim Federation. There I got the following answer: ‘We have not taken a new ring round, but with such a counter, there is probably a number between 15 and 20 that is either reopened or opened. However, it is probably also a good part that is closed. So the sum total is about 200 fewer basins today than 10 years ago." That's 25 pst. reduction and no change since the election. It's time for the government to take its campaign seriously. In this interview, I will take for granted the reasons why swimming pools should be on Stortingen's agenda. I want to focus on the needs of the school, on drowning, on health and generally self-organized activity, and finally on the conditions of the swimming sport as sport. Swimming facilities are expensive for municipalities, both investment and operational. Here you drew up some objectives in St.meld. No 14 for 1999-2000, Change in sport — also known as sport — and in the subsequent committee setting. However, without following up on changes in the framework conditions, the situation will not improve. I hope the Minister of Culture can agree to discuss how to do that. We have curricula in school that are very specific about what Norwegian students should learn. Competence objectives are clear at both 4th, 7th and 10th year stages. Students shall end up being able to ‘swim on their stomachs and backs and dives’ and ‘explain and perform life saving in water and life saving first aid’. According to a survey of 5th graders and their teachers carried out by the MMI on behalf of the Smömförbundet and the Rescue Company, only 46 pst. by the asked hat swimming. If this survey is representative, it means that 33 000 10 year-old students per year. year-olds have not received any instruction on swimming. Very many of them can't swim. It's dramatic. Among the students who had been taught swimming lessons, it was only 24 pst. which was given 4 hours per day. months or more. When I address this question to the Minister of Culture and not to the Minister of Knowledge, it is because installations are the prerequisite for action. If there is no swimming pool available, the Minister of Knowledge can do little. But he can appeal to the question. There was a big investment on the swimming pool 30–40 years ago in Norway. The number of children who could not swim went down dramatically. It was the result of drowning statistics. In traffic, we have a zero vision, but we allow 2,167 people to drown in the last 15 years, without this creating a lot of noise. There are 145 people per day. years! The fact that many children do not learn to swim could result in an increase in drowning accidents. With large immigration to Norway, the problem is not reduced either. We know that many immigrants need special follow-up in this area. A zero vision is at least as current for drowning as for road accidents. The swimming pools we invested in a generation ago are worn out. A new bet is needed. Swimming may be the health-threatening activity that can be performed by most people, whether they are young, old, disabled or disabled. There are 400,000 Northmen who say that they swim for the sake of the trim, and more people want it if they could. Studies show that there are among the most popular activities among young people and the elderly. In the swimming pools there are a total of 20 million visitors in a year, and there is largely unorganized activity. Swimming is one of the world's biggest athletes, and the practitioners there depend on facilities in line with other sportsmen. However, the sport of swimming is faced with completely different challenges than other sports. The development of sport requires, first and foremost, a swimming pool in the local environment, and then sport must be made available free of excessive costs. Practices vary widely in municipalities. In total, however, studies show that in a sports hall the organized sport disposes of 98 pst. of the time, while a swimming pool is disposed of only 7.4 pst. of the time of the swim. Swimming clubs carry out significant preventive work where the school is temporarily failing, but their activity is slowed down due to a lack of time. We need to bet on this. In St.meld. No 14 for 1999–2000, a plant mass to be adapted to the activity profile of the population is said to be very good. It was agreed that access to swimming pools was important, also in small municipalities and in smaller places. Additional incentives were adopted for these, but development has not progressed in the desired direction. Then you have to ask, why? There is no point in referring to the fact that the red-green government has granted so much extra to the municipalities. In sum, municipalities have added new tasks that cost a lot more, from the red-green ones. Specific and targeted measures are needed here. The wish of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, as the statement in the Newspaper today shows, that swimming pools are included in the loan scheme, is one step, but I do not think that is enough. The real bend I think is in the allocation of toys. In accordance with the legislation, swimming pools may receive up to one third of the funding from gambling funds. However, such a large proportion of support for the total funding needs is completely unattainable. The maximum support for a 25-metre swimming pool is one third of 8 million. kr, based on what I have found. Today, such a swimming pool costs a minimum of 50-60 million. kr, and in many cases it costs more. The maximum amount is completely out of proportion to reality, and the aid as a share of the total cost framework is too low. There will be an important signal about a perception that swimming pools are expensive, but that in a country such as Norway, they are essential for preventing drowning and are important for the quality of life of many people and for public health. Taking this into consideration by the Minister of Culture, he may experience that it is not just the fried bottleneck that is left after him in this area. Taking a hold of this constraint, the municipalities will experience it as a great stimulus. It is time for the Government to show that it was serious about its campaign 'We're going to fill up!'. This will cost a little, but the government can still avoid the smell of fried bottle. We might need a zero vision of drowning to get speed on the construction side. I hope the Minister of Culture takes the challenge seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e712	I fully agree with the interpellant of Gundersen that swimming is important for physical activity, rehabilitation and training. Swimming is an activity that is of great benefit and joy to many. Therefore, it is important to organise facilities that offer a good offer to all who wish to swim. In addition, swimming is one of the few characteristics you can actually die of not controlling, so it is also an important dimension of lifesaving – situations that we saw too often come up in Norway, unfortunately. Initially, I would like to stress that the representative's questions concern the responsibilities of several departments. Learning plans and requirements for swimming training are under the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge, while responsibility for sport and state grants to sports facilities lies with the Minister of Culture and the Church. Furthermore, municipalities have an important role and a separate responsibility in both of these areas. Of course, the framework laid down by the municipal budgets also has a significant impact. This calls for joint efforts by different sectors and the use of a combination of instruments. The government has taken it seriously and has taken action in several sectors, which I will come back to after answering the first part of the representative's questions. The first part of the question concerns the follow-up to the ambitions of swimming pools in St.meld. No 14 for 1999-2000, Sports life in change, which was treated under the previous Stoltenberg government. The Sports Communication highlights a stronger priority for some sports facilities, including: the facilities used by most people. Swimming facilities are one of several types of facilities that are specifically developed. The answer to the question is short: Yes, I believe that the ambitions for swimming pools expressed in the Sports Communication have been followed up on the sport policy section. In this context, the figures are clear: as stated in the Sports Communication, 155 million were allocated. from the funds available for investments in swimming facilities between 1988 and 1998. It was equal to 6 pst. the total allocations to ordinary sports facilities during that period. During the period 1999-2006, there has been a sharp increase in the allocation of the funds for investments in swimming facilities. In this period, more than 450 million were distributed. kr for new construction and rehabilitation of swimming pool. It's equal to 15 pst. of total allocations of gambling funds to ordinary sports facilities during that period, i.e.: over a doubling of the proportion going to swimming facilities. Thus, in line with what was promised in the Sports Communication, it has been a strong, real priority for swimming facilities through distributions from games to sports facilities. It is now important to stress that the game scheme is based on applications for facilities. Thus, it is primarily the municipalities that are to be credited for the increase in the allocated games that has resulted in a swimming pool. It is the local priority that has led to this result. The Ministry has also significantly increased the grant rates for swimming pools in recent years. This is in line with the promises made in the Sports Communication and has contributed to the strong increase in the release of funds for swimming facilities in recent years. In addition, special provision has been made for large installations, with exceptional grants to them. The representative’s other question is whether I am satisfied with the financial framework for swimming pools in Norway. To that I would say the following: Government parties are very aware that the population of part of the country's municipalities does not have a satisfactory swim offer. That is why, as the representative has pointed out, it was also part of the 2005 election campaign. We considered it more important to provide for this kind of welfare measure – infrastructure and basic services for the population – than to provide for even greater tax havens and reductions in public budgets. We've taken action that, overall, has created good conditions to improve the situation at the country's swimming pool. The economic instrument in my portfolio in this context is a means of sport. As we have seen, more and more of these have gone to the construction and rehabilitation of the swimming pool. It is important to be aware that grants from the funds are reserved for investment in sports facilities. The cost of operating sports facilities is a municipal responsibility and is completely outside the playing field. In many cases, the operating costs experienced by municipalities are more problematic than the investment cost itself. The current government has increased transfers to the municipalities by DKK 12.5 billion in two years. We see that this has an impact on the sporting infrastructure. In several municipalities, better finances have given opportunities to reopen closed basins. Only during 2006 are 25 previously temporarily closed basins reopened. And you can't help but notice that as long as these basins are municipal -- and I think there's a broad consensus that they're still going to be -- it's the general municipal economy that decides whether reopening the pool is prioritised, towards nursing homes, home help, extra teachers or other important welfare measures in the municipalities. So the clear change of direction in saying no to tax bills and yes to better municipal frames is the main reason why municipalities should be able to do the job of reopening and refilling water in the pools. Then we also look at other possibilities to help municipalities, as well as the general framework. One possibility is the existing offer of interest compensation for school buildings. Under this scheme, municipalities may apply to cover interest on investments in school buildings by the State. The Ministry of Knowledge is professionally responsible for the scheme, while the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is responsible for the budget. This is a system I know very well, since in its time I was the Minister of Education who proposed it. We proposed using 15 billion kroner over eight years. It has gone faster than expected, and in this year's budget, the scheme has been extended by NOK 2 billion – i.e. 2 billion new ones being distributed to municipalities. Many municipalities have taken advantage of this possibility. The regulations also provide for the construction of a swimming pool associated with the school to be part of the scheme. This has been shown by the municipalities to use. In this way, even more municipalities will have predictable and favourable conditions for investments in the swimming pool. Then, of course, the government has come to realize that in the attitude of the Church, Education and Research Committee to the Stortinget it is called: «The Committee notes that the interest-rate compensation scheme for the refurbishment of school buildings has been very successful and refers to the continuation and reinforcement of this scheme.» I have also noticed that the Committee asks the Government to consider a future extension of the scheme for swimming pools not associated with schools but used for educational purposes. It is clear that part of the smallest pools, let's say those less than 12,5 meters long, associated with school buildings, which were the training pools in the old days, are not always appropriate to reopen. Instead, many municipalities choose to build a central facility used by all schools, and the general population, perhaps in connection with a larger bathing facility. We are now working on how we can follow up these comments from Stortinget. It's under the Department of Knowledge. There is an assessment of how to implement this. My response to the representative is therefore that I am well pleased with what this government has done to improve the financial environment for the investment and operation of the country's swimming pool. However, I am not satisfied until the availability is such that everyone who wants it has a good swim offer. This is a goal to go after. But I am sure that the grips the Government has taken will improve the availability of the swimming pool and thus promote swimming training, rehabilitation and physical activity for both children, youth and adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e759	I thank the Minister for the answer. I'm very happy that you're working on this, something else would surprise you, as it was probably a unanimous committee behind this recommendation. I think, as the Minister of Culture was concerned about himself, this is a cross-ministerial responsibility. It affects many departments. We have curricula in school that obviously can't be filled. It is clear that it is not the Minister of Culture's direct responsibility, but it is the Minister of Knowledge. So it could be interesting if you actually took this up at a cross-ministerial level and discussed actions across the spectrum. I am happy to hear that he feels that you have done a lot, but that you are not satisfied – there is a lot left. But the vicious discussion about tax policy and transfer to municipalities can always come back to almost any case here in the Chamber. I just wanted to point out that there we have completely different angles of incidence. We believe that a tax policy that reduces the burden on people leads to increased value creation and thus higher tax revenues in the long term, so that we release funds for this type of investment. I would like to point out that when you have been dealing with different issues in Stortinget, you have also seen the tasks that have been followed up with the additional allocation to the municipalities. If you add it, I actually think the problems are much bigger than the money that's come with it. But I don't think we should go on. Of course, we have municipal autonomy here. It's the municipalities that have to do the job. Centrally, you have to make sure that they do the job properly. And there we see that the results are not good. I agree with the Minister of Culture that we should not just count the swimming pool, because there is a good deal of swimming pool that obviously is never really meant to open again. And it could be that you have a lot of 12.5 meters of swimming pool spread around the municipalities as it is now much better to replace with a new 25 meters pool, or even 50 meters of pool. But then you have to realize that it costs a lot of money. There's a lot of investment for the municipalities. And that's what we see in ourselves, by the fact that there's been a lot more money from the games to the swimming pools, but still it doesn't help in the overall picture around. Too many people don't have access to a swimming pool. There are too many people who do not receive swimming training as intended, and hence drowning accidents and that type of problem. Here, it's important to keep focus on the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e770	I am very pleased with the broad connection that especially when the Workers' Party gets for its election campaigns. This was something we talked a lot about in the 2005 election campaign, that the municipalities lack resources to do this. But the answer was that no, the municipalities had enough resources, it just wasn't efficient enough, it wasn't privatized enough, or it wasn't rationalized enough. We thought it had to be converted – and the money had to be taken from somewhere. Now I'm not going to make this a discussion about using more oil money. But just think of the situation of a municipality that is in a press area, and wants to rust up the swimming pool. Well, you have to find plumbers, carpenters, electricians, masons and craftsmen, who can alternatively be very busy putting heat cables in the driveway of the country to these people who have got the big tax havens. There is simply a lack of professionals to do the job. We notice that now when we build the opera. Some newspapers have reported that costs have been higher than estimated, not because there are exceedances in the project itself, but because the price growth in this industry is stronger than in other industries. Therefore, a government will have to find the money that, among other things. shall be used for the training of swimming pool, the employment of bathguards, security officers and whatever it is. We must have a comprehensive economic policy. And then it's important to turn the money from, among other things. tax incentives for a solid municipal economy where this can be implemented, not only in the broad sense, in free resources that municipalities can use, but we also need to look at possible earmarked schemes, either through sports or through loan schemes for school buildings and, if possible, changes to those regulations, if possible. These will of course be budgetary matters, so it will of course be dealt with in broad, comprehensive government, and then assessed in that context, just in order to achieve a comprehensive economic policy. Let me also say a few words about the fact that the main source of earmarked grants for swimming pools is the sports equipment from tipping. What we're doing with our ticker ego -- we're cleaning up in other games -- is making sure that Norwegian Typing keeps its position, and that they develop their games that led to a new trading record in Norwegian Typing in 2006 -- sales increased by half a billion. This leads to 50 new millions on the construction side of sports, which will again benefit swimming pools and swimming facilities. So the overall game policy that we are pursuing is also helping to lay the foundation for municipalities around the country to develop different sports facilities, including swimming facilities. I think the zero vision is a brilliant idea. We know that there are also some drowning accidents associated with alcohol/drug abuse, so we have a long canvas to fade to reach that zero vision – not just build swimming facilities and have swimming training, but pursue a comprehensive policy that contributes to such vision implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e784	It is a pleasure that the representative Gunnar Gundersen addresses a matter of swimming pools and their many positive aspects for so many people – for I fully agree with the interpellant. But it's also surprising that there's a representative from the Right Party who's taking up the theme here in the staging room. My experience from the Municipal Government Hall is quite different. Usually, swimming pools have not had any big star at that party, so all praise to the representative Gundersen. When the swimming pool in my municipality was badly damaged in the middle of a fiscal year, during what I choose to call the major municipal economic crisis, we, as the representative of the majority, almost did not want to discuss repairs. We knew that there would be a lot of good things to do in the care of the elderly and in school. But we took it up. And we fixed the damage, because we knew that it would otherwise be the hook on the door also for our swimming pool – and we wouldn't, precisely because we thought the swimming pool represented so much good, both for the students at school and for the many others who used the swimming pool after school. The new elementary school curriculum has set concrete learning goals for swimming. It will be a challenge for those municipalities that have actually closed their swimming pools, or have very poor standards on them. In connection with the budget decision before Christmas, a joint church, education and research committee – as we have heard before – also expressed concern about the standard around it. The Committee asked the Government to consider including funds for the refurbishment and refurbishment of swimming pools used for teaching purposes, in a future continuation of the school building interest compensation scheme, based on a clear recognition that these are important facilities for the implementation of the Knowledge promise and the ambitions we have for more physical activity in the school. It is therefore gratifying to read in the Newspaper today that the Government also performs in this area. The Council of State also confirms that the matter is being worked on. The majority of the Committee also showed that municipalities receive an increase of DKK 3.65 billion in their free income this year, and that, in addition to this amount, they received an additional tax intake in the last year of approximately EUR 20 million. DKK 2.5 billion. No matter what the representative Gundersen may think about it, this money represents so that the municipalities are able to do something about the swimming pools that are closed. In particular, the additional tax revenue, which is a one-off income, must be used for investments in municipal buildings, both for new buildings and for the renovation of existing buildings, because there is a large backlog in the area in all Norwegian municipalities. This applies to all types of construction, but perhaps most of all in the school sector and older cultural buildings. I think the municipalities will give priority to both school buildings and swimming pools, now that the economy is improving. To get back to my own municipality: I now see that the total renovation, possibly the construction of a new swimming pool, has come into the investment budget. The swimming pool from approx. 1970 is well maintained, but is immature to the time standard, not least in view of possibleincrease measures. Once the municipal administration has carried out its numerous investigations and cost estimates, which are necessary before the local government takes its decision on renovation/new construction, it will, of course, also apply for funds, because the swimming pool is also a sports arena. And last week I read in the local language that the municipality's swimming club was back on track and had arranged a club championship. The swimming clubs also become optimists when they see that the municipality is again betting on the swimming pool. It promises good for the swimming in my local environment. But just the municipal inertia of investments in construction makes sure that it takes time before municipalities that have closed their swimming pools, or have worn-out facilities, can once again fill the basins with water. I've hurt to think that it's only my home municipality that has perceived the clear signals of the red-green government to fill up the basins with water, when the municipal economy has improved as strongly as it has done in the last year. If we also put in place an interest compensation scheme for loans for the renovation/reconstruction of swimming pools, it will certainly also stimulate efforts. I want to be ambitious on behalf of the swimming pool development in Norway. So does the Minister of Culture. This gives us all good reason to be optimistic — including the representative Gundersen, who correctly writes that ‘swimming pool is important for physical activity, rehabilitation and training’. And as he also points out, there is a physical activity that many can engage in, and where physical disability is also not an obstacle.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e801	The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, is addressing a very interesting issue today. The undersigned has had the pleasure of sitting in a municipal cultural selection for 12 years – responsible for three baths, or swimming pools, two full-year indoor baths and a large outdoor. This is a strenuous exercise that many municipal politicians have to work on every day. Baths can be expensive in operation, technically challenging — and particularly challenging when they start to grow old. In my home municipality, two of the three baths were relatively old. It's also interesting to look at the purely fundamental aspects of this case. Is it a public task to own and operate a bath in 2007? Because let's say 80 years ago, in 1927, the answer was probably yes, for many had not asked at home, and it was a clear health benefit that people had to wash themselves in between. In 2007, I can go so far as to say that the public should contribute to swimming training for children and young people and sport, swimming and water sports as health promotion for sick and elderly people who need this. The fact that the public has a responsibility or should contribute to something is not for the Progress Party the same as that the public should own and operate an action. Swimming halls and bath facilities can be very well left to private operators, and the public can buy time or subsidise visits for those groups that need it. We have also seen examples that municipal politicians are not the most suitable people to manage this type of activity. Running a swimming pool or a swimming pool is per. today more than just to be responsible for some wardrobes and a swimming pool. They are often associated with SPA activities, well-being, training, etc. It's about relatively complex business models. Having said this, I have to say that, of course, the ability of municipal politicians to prioritize swimming training, swimming sports and water sports is a health measure for sick and elderly people depending on the municipality's economy. The Progress Party shares the concern for the local economy. We have therefore proposed NOK 1.5 billion more to the municipalities than the government has adopted. As the Council of State was satisfied with the Government's commitment, I assume that he would have been very pleased if the proposals of the Advance Party had won out on this matter. Finally, in the case of children and youth, swimming training is of course very important in a country like Norway with a long coastline, with fjords, with rivers and with water around our hinterland. The problem of a high number of drowning accidents has been highlighted earlier in the debate. Of course, this is something that also concerns the Progress Party. Public attention should be given to swimming training for children and young people. But I can't help but stress the responsibility of every parent to familiarize their child with swimming and dealing with water. In addition to public efforts in the field of swimming training for children and young people, initiatives should be taken by parents. I think that's very important. The Progress Party is positive in assessing this with maximum amounts under the TIP. We also welcome the signals provided by the Council of State regarding the adjustment of the other schemes that affect the possibilities of municipalities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e822	I want to thank the interpellant for focusing on an important topic. Of course, I think you should learn to swim at school in Norway – a country with such a long-distance coast. It's quite right, as the interpellant says, that swimming pool is important for physical activity, rehabilitation and training. Swimming is one of the physical activities that most people can participate in, even if you are disabled, young or old. There are concrete learning goals for swimming in the new curricula. Therefore, it is absolutely right that local authorities should facilitate the provision of swimming lessons for children in schools. I even come from Eastfold, which is a state with a lot of coast. We have had many tragic drowning accidents with children in recent years. If you can't swim, you can die of it, which was also in the Council of State. That's why it's so important that we get this in place in Norwegian school. One thing is new swimming pools – it was clear to the Council of State, and he explained well what this government has done, and what increase it has been of games for swimming pools – but there are also very many swimming pools that are still empty, which are not 12,5 meters, but which are actually physically good enough to be used. I fully agree with what the Council of State says, that the municipalities have a great responsibility to facilitate swimming lessons, to fill these pools and to rehabilitate the usable pools that exist around them. I believe that the government has been quite clear by improving the local economy. It has given municipalities the opportunity to give priority to children and young people as well as to fill up the swimming pools. This government opted for the swimming pools to be filled. With the improved economy that is now in the municipalities, I believe that the municipalities must also take more responsibility. As many have experienced, efforts need to be made in several sectors and across departments, because many have a responsibility. Finally, in the case of drowning accidents, this zero vision is an important objective. As the Council of State had in mind, there are many different causes of drowning accidents. But I think it's a good goal to have, and SV supports it. I believe that this government has done a lot to get to the goal. We have a long way to go forward, but more governments are working on this, in different departments. It is clear that this is a bet area for this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e835	The 2004 Year of Life Survey shows that seven out of ten Nordics train or exercise at least once a week, while only one out of ten never practice or exercise. Most popular is walking fast tours, followed by cycling and ski tours. It's most from the densely built strata, and especially from Oslo and Akershus, who train indoor activities, such as aerobics, strength training and symmetry. The study shows that this includes, inter alia: come from gyms, indoor gyms and gyms. It is important that children learn to sympathize, regardless of where in the country they grow up. A study by the Education Association shows that 38 000 school pupils in 200 schools do not have symmetry education. The fact that half of Norwegian teenagers are unable to swim means that these children do not have a basic skill and also have a higher risk of drowning if they fall into the water. In order to provide children and young people with a diverse range of activities, it is important to ensure that all municipalities have multipurpose halls and halls. Many of the small and large pools around the county are funded in a gap between municipalities, sports teams and games. In order to increase the number of basins in operation, the Government will offer the municipalities interest-free loans according to today's headlines in the Newspaper. In that case, it would be a follow-up to a cross-political note by the Church, Education and Research Committee during the budgetary procedure. That'll be good. Interest-free loans have been shown to have a good effect both in the case of squattering and in the case of the refurbishment of church buildings. In addition, it is appropriate to invest in Public Private Cooperation OPS. Marienlyst i Drammen has recently received a new symmetry system as a result of a OPS project. The use of OPS as a form of financing and agreement allows municipalities to leave responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the symmetry system for as long as 25 years. It provides a good framework for municipalities and can continue the development of new facilities and the upgrading of old ones. Sport is a major movement of people that gathers children, young people and adults for positive outcomes in various activities. Sport creates well-being and joy and is also important for people's well-being. The Christian People's Party will therefore facilitate the widest possible possibility of exercising sports and physical activity. Sports are important common venues in the local environment. The Christian People's Party supports the premise that is aimed at strengthening sport as an important factor in creating local membership and social integration. The Christian People’s Party will give priority to the provision of children and young people. Through the opt-out schemes, sport must be stimulated to integrate different groups into its activities. Through sport, immigrants are in a good way active participants in the local environment and in important communities. Sports facilities are an important part of the infrastructure for providing good growth conditions for children and young people. Local sports facilities that ensure a lack of activity and are accessible to a wide range of teams and organisations must be invested. As a result, the most likely young people are able to engage in sports and physical activity. The system has been an important back-up. The availability of facilities is very important for the individual sport team and the individual municipality. It is important for local sports, it is important for people most, and it is important for unorganized children and young people. In Norway, there is a long tradition of seeing the relationship between the width and the top. The Christian People's Party believes that government support for organised sport is mainly intended to support the voluntary, membership-based sport, so that one can maintain and develop a good range of activities, primarily at local level. The state's preference for top sport is important because of the role of imagery and cultural identity creators. Interest in the population is high and gives many common focus across age and interests, or else. We need both top-notch and what happens on the grass-roots planet. Even if many municipalities have had an economy, it will always be profitable for the community to invest in preventive activity. Putting down activities that provide physical activity, social activity, sports competitions, training and not least symmetry training will soon be very precious to a community. I therefore hope that gambling funds, interest-free loans and OPS can provide many municipalities with incentives to refurbish their symmetries, so that there are not so many empty symmetries around today, and that we also get water filled in several of these – to the joy of small and large.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e858	The centre party has for a long time pointed to the need to turn the policy from repair measures to preventive measures. If we're just going to repair damage when it happens, whether it's in the form of accidents, in the form of health plagues or in the form of crime, we're fighting a fight that over time will require nearly infinite access to resources. But if the basic focus of all time in all politics is to prevent the events and developments we want to avoid, we don't save society just for large sums, but we also save the inhabitants too much suffering, and we help build a better life for our inhabitants. The interpellant refers to the important arena the swimming pool is for children to learn good symmetry. As a resident of a coastal and fjord municipality, I know a little bit about how decisive symmetry is, yes, it could be the difference between life and death in certain situations. The swimming pool also has other important functions. Rehabilitation is one example, and together with other sports facilities, the swimming pool is an important venue for one of the most important prevention measures of our time, namely physical activity. We are increasingly less moving, and it shows that on our bodies and on the health budget. It is a major challenge to facilitate more physical activity both at leisure, at school and at work. We need to put more effort into planning society so that there is room for physical activity, and so that it is made possible for us to be physically active on the way to and from the different places where we are in one day. In the early stages of life, there are different habits, and a positive relationship to physical activity in childhood and juvenile ulcers could therefore lead to a more physically active later in life. For this reason, it has been important for the Centre Party to get more physical activity into the school and to ensure good arrangements for the development of sports facilities around the country, such as: the tipping agent arrangement. Access to swimming pools and other sports facilities is of course important, and with access we also have to recognise that for many, the price level is an important factor in whether or not you have access to a sports facility. In the view of the Centre Party, it is therefore important to facilitate that children and young people are not stopped by a high price level when they seek out different sports facilities. The centre party shares the involvement of the interpellant in this matter, but it must be allowed to point out that, when the representative Gundersen is on the platform today and argues for a swimming pool, he moves himself and the party out on deep water, in order to use a relevant metaphor. A central tool for ensuring good access to the pool around the country is the municipal economy. The tight community economy Right stood for in the previous period, making it impossible for many municipalities around the country to upgrade a swimming pool or provide good enough symmetry education. It is close to pointing to the Right-steered municipality of Hornindal as an example, where the students had to have symmetry lessons in the Hornindal water. So it's not enough of Gundersen's representatives to have clear objectives in this area. He and the Party of the Right must also be willing to give priority to the means available to those who need pooling, either training, rehabilitation or physical activity. It has not been, and when it is pointed out, the representative, Gundersen, defends himself that they give priority to tax relief over community through the local economy, and it provides more money for long-term distribution. Then one would believe that after four years with the Right in the Ministry of Local Affairs, and after four years prioritizing tax relief in front of the community, the money would fall in, so that the municipalities got a priority swimming pool. But at the end of the previous period, nothing had happened to the swimming pool around the municipalities, rather on the contrary. I'm glad that the Center Party is not only engaged in this issue when an interpellation emerges in the Storting, but that our government has led a policy that has given more citizens, at least in my state, access to a swimming pool after the last government change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e874	In general, I do not need to defend the previous government, but in the previous speaker it was at least heard as if the new government has contributed large sums to construct swimming pools in this country. It's just that it's wrong. In fact, efforts have been made to improve the local economy, but the way money is used is still a municipal issue. Municipal swimming pools became an important issue during the election campaign in 2005. Profiled workers' party politicians with outstretched arms stood in empty swimming pool and told them that it was civil government's fault that the swimming pools were without water. The solution was ready: a change of government would make the water flow freely in the country's swimming pools again. There are actually a lot of people who just remember two things from the last election. The first is full child care coverage by 2007, otherwise Kristin Halvorsen goes out of Norwegian politics. The second is that the government parties, those who are now in government, did well to have water in the swimming pools after a shift. Stoltenberg did not promise to leave if the water was lacking, and that is perhaps why the investment and measures for swimming pools and swimming lessons have been largely absent. In the spring of 2005, a study was carried out on the Norwegian Federation of Swims, which showed that 200 swimming pools were closed. There's a lot of variation between the states. In Telemark, 14 out of 35 swimming pools were closed, in Sogn and Fjordane 18 out of 39 were closed, and in Møre and Romsdal 26 out of 56 swimming pools were closed. How many of these are closed today? I expect the Council of State to provide concrete figures as to how far the Government has come in its eagerness to open swimming pools. I expect the Council of State does not even repeat the standard response that all problems have been solved because the municipalities have received a better economy. It's a bit of a worn-out phrase, which essentially gives a completely uncontented insight into reality. My oldest son took the swim button last week. It was a great moment, and he swam all the way out to the deep and back again, as he said. I'm glad that my son's school offers swimming training. But there is reason for concern when almost one in ten students have no offer of swimming training via their school, and reaches 50 pst. by the ten-year-olds, despite the fact that there are concrete requirements for the competence of swimming training in the curriculum. The 4th classes shall be safe and swimmable; the 7th classes shall swim on both the stomach, back and under water; and in the 10th grade all the students shall have learned life saving in water and life saving first aid. It illustrates the importance of good swim training, it's about life and death. How can the curriculum be followed up for the almost 10 pst? by students who are not offered such education? It may not be sufficient to claim that this is a municipal responsibility and that it will therefore not benefit from State action. The whole point is that all public schools are obliged to deal with the curriculum, and to give students the skills that are set out. So a prerequisite for teaching swimming is that students have access to water in the pools. It's true that this is about priorities. The government has announced that they will consider proposing a support scheme for the municipalities that is based on an interest compensation for investments in swimming pools. It's in line with what the Church, Education and Research Committee has asked the Government to do, and that's good. However, the question is whether it is sufficient as an instrument if the aim is to fill up more basins than those already under upgrade, or – to say the least – in the course of fulfillment. The local government sector is burdened with debt, the interest cost is only a marginal part of the cost of borrowing. As long as the municipalities themselves have to finance deductions from the operating budget, there will be an assessment of how best to use the investment funds. The interest-rate compensation scheme for school buildings and church buildings has worked well, but the maintenance system for schools and churches remains enormous, and it indicates that the challenges in these sectors are not solved, despite interest-rate compensation schemes. According to Construction Research, the corresponding aftermath for the swimming pools was DKK 3 billion in 1993. I don't have any more recent numbers, it probably has the Council of State, but it's likely that this lag has doubled since that time. An interest-rate compensation scheme may be one instrument, but it is already clear that it is not enough to ensure that students’ right to swim training is met. Therefore, until the revision of the national budget has been reviewed, the government must make a broader commitment and ensure that access to the swimming pool, whether private or public, is good enough to ensure that all students have access to the swimming training provided by the curriculum.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e895	It is correct, as the representative Anundsen said, that there was an impression that the water would flood into the basins again. At least we don't see that coming up. I think we should be careful to popularise this to the point that it's about heat cables in the rise of rich people. If the Minister of Culture is going to kill all the heat cables before he does anything in this area, I think it's going to take a long time before anything happens. With regard to the increase in the local economy, it is enough to recall that two thirds actually stem from increased tax revenue and one third from transfers. We can probably take that discussion to the spasm. I don't want to focus on it now, because it's getting something to happen that was actually my point. When it comes to zero vision, we have it in traffic, despite the fact that we know that both suicide, alcohol and drugs are inside the picture as well. So there's no argument that you're going to have to deal with the drowning problem more easily. Of course, there are many other reasons why people drown than they cannot swim. But a significant part of the problem is that people can't swim. I think there were many interesting articles, among others. this with OPS projects and other means of operating and financing them. I'm open to that, of course. But I think we should be aware that there are perhaps two different types of facilities that you talk about, because what goes to school, and what goes on drowning and prevention in that regard, is largely a public task. When it comes to play, which is also important, and commercial facilities, there may be a little bit of other facilities you talk about, but I think it's very good. I also realized that both the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party were positive in looking at the maximum amounts. That's basically what I could think of ending up with to the Minister of Culture. I think the focus is on the problem again, but then we come to the question: Will the Minister of Culture assess this with the max amounts? If we expect a 25-meter swimming pool to cost at least 60-70 million. kr, that is, you can support it by one-third after your toys applications – up to 8 million. kr. That means that one-third of the support is just going to be 3-4 pst. aid, because the maximum amount sets such a limit. It is clear that for the municipalities are 3-4 pst. support nothing, but if you can raise the support to a total amount that is more consistent with what it actually costs to build new halls, we can get a little speed on this. My final call to the Minister of Culture is whether he can say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e908	As Minister of Sport, as a former Minister of Education and as a member of the Government, it is only to bend and thank for the support given to the Government here in the Chamber, both for the description of the reality presented in the 2005 election campaign – which was not particularly endorsed at the time, when we were alone on that description of the situation in the municipalities – and also for the need to invest in welfare goods, the development of schools, swimming pools, etc., rather than spending money on other measures. I record that every time you say that the money has to be taken from somewhere, it says: No, did not bring the lesson about the local economy and tax relief. Well, the lesson is about what we politicians are put in here to do: to make choices about how society's common resources should actually be used. Those choices we dare to make. We dare say no to things that are certainly popular in many circles, large tax havens for those who have the most, and measures that demand all the craftsmen that we rather want to rust up schools and swimming pools. We were the ones who put the 15 billion into school buildings in their time. They were repeatedly proposed to be cut by the previous government. They were put back into Stortinget. Now we've come to terms with the 15 billion, and then we're going to work on looking at how we can also fit other bathrooms into this system. So the question of maximum amounts within sports. Well, no matter how you turn it around, there won't be any more money for sports facilities to change the maximum amounts. To say that each swimming facility should receive more support, the money must either be taken from other swimming facilities or from other sports facilities, because the sum is the Norwegian Typing yield of profits. Whether it is right then to provide more aid to fewer installations or to provide a little less support to many installations is always an assessment. There will be no more money for swimming facilities. From the previous period until now, the share of funds going to swimming facilities has increased from 6 pst. to 15 pst. So within sports facilities, you've increased the sum considerably. But one depends on the fact that Norwegian Typing actually has these incomes in the future as well. In particular, the Progress Party has held a different line in the field of gambling policy and has had a more liberal attitude to the automatic industry, but also to other types of games, to which the rest of the bulk of the population have fortunately failed to join. This is a very important struggle to win to secure these assets in the future. We're going to do ours. I'm glad it's a commitment to swimming pool. I'm glad it's an exposure to zero vision. I'm glad that it's a commitment to the local government's economy and the ability to bet on this. We're going to follow up on that in our work. I hope it is also reflected when future budgets are created, both by position and by opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e921	That is when the debate is on case No. 3 ended. All representatives are now called in because a record has to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-06.ana.ud797e971	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
