ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e35	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Odel Sting today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected President of Odelstinget’s meeting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e51	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e60	In Ot.prp. No 17 for 2006-2007, proposals for regulation of DNA testing and age surveys are presented in the Foreign Affairs Act. These two areas are important for better regulation, and the Government has therefore chosen to mention them in its own proposal. It is important to ensure legal certainty for all applicants when examining applications for residence in the State. The Foreign Law Committee went to NOU in 2004: 20, New Foreign Law, in order for both DNA testing and age surveys to be legalised. The previous practice of such investigations has been advocated by the Data Protection Authority, since the Data Protection Act requires legal basis in both these situations because the consent currently obtained can be perceived as being given under pressure and therefore cannot be considered as a voluntary consent given in accordance with the Data Protection Act. It is important that a basis for DNA testing is included in the Foreign Affairs Act. The majority of the Committee supports the Government’s proposal for a provision providing a basis for requesting the applicant and the reference person to be tested. Furthermore, a formulation is included that it may be relevant for the assessment of the case if the applicant rejects DNA testing. It is essential to ensure the proper conduct of the tests. The majority have noticed that clarifications will be given in the regulation on the conduct of DNA testing. It is also important to provide information to all involved so that DNA testing in the future becomes a known tool. Age surveys shall provide a more solid basis for determining whether a non-resident who lacks evidence of his age and who declares that he is under 18 years of age is actually a minor. Experience in the foreign field suggests that it is necessary to continue such studies in order to prevent abuse of the legislation by informing persons over 18 years of age that they are minors. This is important both to ensure that adults do not receive rights that apply only to children and that adults are not placed with children. The practice of age surveys is currently based on consent. It is important that age surveys are clearly anchored in the Foreign Affairs Act, and the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party support the proposed provision. Ageing studies are used only when the other information in the case does not provide a basis for determining the age of the applicant and when one has reason to doubt the accuracy of the information provided. It is important to stress that it will take sufficient account of the uncertainty of the study methods and that the doubt will benefit the applicant. The results of the age survey shall be part of a broader assessment. The current UDI guidelines focus on the importance of asking questions during the asylum interview that can help to clarify age. Other aspects – such as the child’s psychological and physical maturity – should also be considered. It is also important for us to stress that doubts about the age of the applicant should be addressed to the applicant. The ageing test shall be included as one of several stages in determining the age. We therefore see the proposal now before us as a good whole solution. Age surveys lead to debate in the media at irregular intervals. The majority are aware that Ullevål University Hospital and the Rikshospitale have gone away from carrying out hand-held studies. We believe it is important that continuous efforts are being made to search for safe new methods to estimate the correct age of minor asylum seekers. Finally, I am delighted to recommend the Committee's position. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the suspension proposal for a decision concerning § 37g has been amended, and mentions proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e86	The rapporteur-in-Office has thus addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e89	The progress party is positive that the government here wants a clear legalization of DNA testing and age testing. That makes sense, but as usual, the government doesn't go far enough. For neither age testing nor DNA testing, there are clear indications in the legal text that if you oppose this type of testing, it will have consequences for the application. We believe that this should be done explicitly, so that a clear signal is given that if you do not cooperate with the Norwegian authorities to provide correct information, you should know that it has implications for the application. It becomes a little naive and kind when it is not stated in plain text, but only suggests that it may be subject to evaluation in the context of an application. The Progress Party considers this to be far too clear. We should clearly stress that this will have consequences – and it should also have consequences. Specifically, in relation to age testing, it is a little sad that you don't want to use age tests to reveal children's brides. We have examples of people who have been married all the way down to their 12-year-olds, with fake identity papers to Norway. This could also be a good tool to stop the kind of hopeless and grotesque actions that have been revealed several times. Then it is disappointing that state councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen does not want to use age polls to reveal children's brothers. Our main concern in relation to this is that, of course, we will subsidize the proposal of the Government. But I'm still wondering why you can't send a clear signal that if you don't cooperate with the Norwegian authorities, if you don't do what you can to provide correct and relevant information, but on the contrary, the authorities are working against producing such information, it will give a result in relation to, for example, that. an application for asylum. This should be made clear. It wouldn't be extreme to express it explicitly in the law, so it also gives a clear signal effect. I think it would also make the work easier for the foreign authorities if proper information were produced, both in the context of DNA testing and in the context of age testing. Otherwise, the Progress Party has also shown that we like to see DNA testing as something that is also used in the introduction of a ban on sibling childhood, for which we make a very clear statement. Sibling childhood has health implications that suggest that it is not good at all — increased risk of death at an early age, increased harm after birth, plus that it has a link to forced marriage. We see the use of DNA testing as an opportunity to also reveal sibling childhood. On behalf of the Progress Party, I bring this up with our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e102	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e105	I would like to refer to the proposals from the Right and the Left, which are based on a somewhat stricter wording than what the Government has proposed, and address these, so I will not forget it later. We are surprised that the government does not here provide the foreign authorities with the opportunity to order the applicant to be examined in order to obtain clarification on questions relating to age. Such an option of imposition would be clearer. But we believe, of course, that if the foreigner cannot be investigated, then there should not be an automatic refusal of the application, but that it will have an impact on the assessment of the case, and not only that it can have an impact on the assessment in the case, as proposed by the Government. The difference between our position and that of the Progress Party on the one hand, and between our position and that of the Government on the other hand, is that, unlike the Government and the Advance Party, we want that kind of investigation to be imposed. If not followed up, we clearly say, as opposed to the Government, that this will affect the matter. But unlike the Progress Party, we're not saying that it automatically gets a rejection result. It is because in some cases it may be that the basis is still there to grant a residence permit, and that it would be too strict to say that one point should make one not receive it. We have also placed great emphasis on the fact that even during the consultation process, the foreign authorities ask for this opportunity to impose such an investigation. What's happening here today is not a big change from what seems to be adopted. It is more or less in reality a legislative act of today's practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e122	All minority proposals have thus been addressed – proposals No. 1 and 2 by Mr Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress, and proposals Nos 1 and 2 by Mr Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress. 3 and 4, by the representative Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e125	The government has put forward a proposal to provide the basis for the practice of using DNA tests and age surveys under the Foreign Affairs Act. DNA testing is used in issues related to family reunification between children and parents where the relationship cannot be documented in any other way. Either necessary documents may be missing, or there may be doubts as to whether the documents are authentic. This often applies to people from countries such as Somalia, Iraq and Afghanistan. These are countries that have been high on the statistics on family reunification in recent years. To date, the scheme has been based on the voluntary consent of the persons responsible for carrying out the DNA tests, the applicant and the reference person. It was from the autumn of 1999 that the Ministry of Justice launched a trial project in relation to Somali citizens seeking family reunification. Figures from these cases showed that, in several cases, incorrect information on biological relationships was provided. In addition, more than half of those who were offered DNA testing did not meet to take the test. The experience of this project led to the introduction of a permanent scheme. In 2004, the number of problem drug users in the EU increased. 10 of 1507 tests negative. On this basis, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal in the proposition. We support the Ministry in the view that it is not satisfactory to rely on consent as a legal basis as long as it is such that not being tested could have an impact on the decision in the case. The Christian People's Party also believes that there should not be an automatic rejection of an application if the parties refuse to be tested. It is satisfactory with the wording proposed by the Ministry that if the applicant opposes DNA testing, it may be ‘relevant for the assessment of the case’. I would like to stress how important it is to ensure the proper conduct of the tests, with clear guidelines and deletion of the DNA tests once they have been used for the intended purpose. Age surveys are used in cases where it is essential for the outcome of the alienation to be over or under 18 years of age. The medical methods used are examination of teeth and hand roots. Criticisms have been raised specifically against the quality of the survey methods of the professional environment, both nationally and internationally. Ullevål University Hospital and the Rikshospitalet have gone away from carrying out hand-held research. It is important that a constant effort is made to find safe new methods to estimate the correct age of minor asylum seekers. NOAS stresses, as a hearing body in the case, that an error in the assessments could lead to a minor being treated as an adult and that this could easily lead to ‘very serious violations of the child’s rights, in the worst case, to return a child alone to the home Member State’. I share the concerns of NOAS in this area, and it is therefore very important that the practice of age surveys and the different methods available are carefully evaluated. Such studies may lead to errors and quality uncertainties. Proper margins of error are used and doubts about the age of asylum seekers are therefore of particular importance to the applicant, precisely because it can be about the rights of a child. I have myself received a request from an individual who refused his application for a stay. Based on the x-rays of the teeth, he was assessed to be over 18 years old. Later it turned out that these X-rays were not from his mouth, but that there had been a confusion. This is a serious failure of the system that is extra catastrophic when a child is affected. At the same time, I see the need for this type of investigation to prevent people over 18 years of age from using the legislation. Statistics in the last few years speak their clear language. However, the study must be only one of several elements of an overall assessment. If the applicant is accompaniment to the age study request, the applicant, or the child, may have to benefit from any doubt as to age.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e140	The left considers it important to ensure legal certainty for all applicants for a stay in Norway. In order to ensure legal certainty, its identity and evidence are important. For those applying for a stay, the identity will be unknown and the documentation will be missing. New technology has made it possible to document relatives and age relatively quickly. The Data Protection Authority considers that a statutory basis is necessary under the Data Protection Act to carry out both DNA testing and age surveys. The left supports this kind of legal support. On the one hand, there should be no doubt as to whether an agreement has been given under pressure. It's important for the individual. The other side of it is the possibility of assessing a case for as precise information as possible, thus ensuring that those applying for a stay are treated as fairly and equally as possible. In view of the latter, the Left goes in to impose the use of DNA testing and age testing in cases where other evidence does not exist or is not sufficient. In this context, we will clarify that although it is proposed that DNA testing be required, it is not proposed that the case be automatically rejected if the requirement is not complied with. Here we will allow for a discretionary assessment as necessary. The left will further point to the importance of privacy considerations in these matters and agree with the Ministry's assessment, namely to regulate the provision for the deletion of material related to the test.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e151	I want to start by saying that as I experience it, there is a very small difference between the Right and Left's proposal for a new section 37 f and the committee's recommendation. The right and left are concerned with the obligation to carry out DNA tests or to carry out age surveys, while the Committee’s recommendation uses the term ‘invitation’. But as I experience it, the point from both the majority and the right and the left is that not implementing the test could have consequences. Some of the reasons why I am personally not quite comfortable with the concept of imposition are that it signals in a way that you should be able to use coercive measures to implement it, and that you have that kind of means at your disposal. I am sure that it is not the intention of the Right and the Left, but in an assessment of whether to use one or the other term, it has been essential that I believe it is right to use the term ‘request’. However, this must be seen in conjunction with what is recommended by the Committee for a new section 37f: ‘If the applicant or the reference person rejects the request for a DNA test without reasonable cause, he shall be made aware that this may have an impact on the assessment of the case.’; What is a more clear political distinction is the distinction between the other parties and the Progress Party, which will have an automatic link in that, if such a test is not carried out, the matter is rejected. To that end, I would say that there is no doubt that the general rule – which in most of the contexts becomes practice – will be that if you do not comply with the request for a DNA test, there will be negative consequences, namely that the case will be rejected. It is important for me to stress that it is entirely possible to imagine situations where exceptions to this rule are made, both in terms of DNA testing and age testing. I believe that it is wrong for us to establish such an automatic approach, because it is, after all, all about asylum seekers who claim that they are single minor asylum seekers who have been persecuted – perhaps on the run from war-like conditions. Then you can say that well, well, you don't follow a request to carry out an age test, it has to be very important in the matter. However, I believe that as a country that is committed to having strict legal certainty as its starting point, we are wise to make an assessment. Such an assessment will be consistently and very often adverse to the applicant. But we are talking here about such serious issues that it is right to make an assessment, and that we do not by law establish an automatic system that does not allow us to make an overall assessment of the matter at the end. In summary, I would like to say that as I manage to read it, there is no great difference of opinion between the Committee, and the Right and Left propose – that is more nuances – while there is a clear political difference between the Right, the Left and the majority of the Committee, on the one hand, and the proposal of the Progress Party, on the other. Finally, I see that a proposal has been distributed in the Chamber, no. 5, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party, which I think is quite right. It gives us a more precise opportunity to use this type of testing, for example. in matters relating to child brides.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e170	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e173	The problem is that when the legal text does not explicitly say that the lack of willingness to cooperate in producing information will lead to a refusal, it is also said that this should be done to a certain extent by the foreign administration. Now it's probably the way – at least from my point of view – that you can't have the great confidence in the way judgement is exercised by the foreign administration. We've seen that in a number of other things. This gives you an opportunity to use the system in a way that the Storting does not want – perhaps to a greater extent than what is intended by both the Government and the Storting. The Council of State stated that there are a number of examples of the need to deviate from what it considers to be the general rule, namely that there should be consequences for the application. Can the Council of State mention some examples, because he says that there are many examples here? I would like to hear examples of cases where this applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e180	First of all, I don't think I used the term'several' examples. I think I said that there may be examples where, despite a request for both DNA testing and age testing, it may be acceptable to make an assessment of the case anyway, and that you can come into situations where such an assessment is of benefit to the applicant. This could be done, for example, by: are situations in which the family history is such that, in agreement with the alienation authorities, a good explanation is given as to why a DNA test is not carried out. There may also be situations with single minor asylum seekers who have doubts about age, but where the applicant has such a traumatic background that one chooses to ignore the fact that the applicant does not carry out an age test. That it's a demanding thought for Per-Willy Amundsen, I understand, but it's not very demanding for me.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e185	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e190	This is an important matter that the Progress Party is very serious about. When you find that girls down to the age of 12 with fake papers have been married to people in Norway, this is a matter that the whole Stortinget should take seriously. The progress team believes that DNA testing is important. DNA testing also helps clarify some unknown factors. We must combat the import of child brides and the fight against coercion. I think we all agree on that, but we disagree a little bit about the instruments. Age and DNA tests must be used where there is doubt about age and to avoid tragic outcomes. The Council of State said in its speech that the proposal for the Progress Party is good and that that is what will be the main rule. Then I am a little surprised that you cannot support it and use it as the most important tool, when it is going to be the general rule in the cases. Age testing is important, and all instruments are used. Some doctors who work with a new way to age have been in contact with me. They use X-rays to determine age. The matter – I understand – has been sent to the Department of Assessment, and this can be an important tool. I think the department should also look closely at the input from these doctors about using X-rays of the body as an opportunity to determine the exact age. The Progress Party believes that participation in forced marriages involving children’s brides must be severely punished. Good control mechanisms must be in place to put an end to this. There we should all take responsibility and use all the means available.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e203	I get a little insecure when I hear the articles of the Progress Party relating to marriage with minors, because it can create the impression that the legal text proposed, both by the Right and Left and by the majority parties, does not take into account the possibility of using the DNA test in cases where the foreign authorities suspect that marriage has been concluded with a person who is a minor. Therefore, I would ask the Council of State to clarify that with the change in the paragraphs that are now proposed by all parties, the circle of persons is extended to cases where one suspects marriage with minors, and that in those cases where one suspects this, the foreign authorities will be able to carry out a DNA test.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e208	I tried to say that at the end of my speech, but to be quite precise: I fully agree with the understanding that the representative Bent Höie now believes, that with the wording that we are now given, it is quite clear that we are opening the legal framework in order to carry out age tests in those contexts, and that the foreign authorities must be vigilant also in being able to use age tests in matters that affect not only asylum but also family situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e213	The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is a large majority in this Chamber not to decide that those who refuse to take age tests will automatically be refused. It will probably be examples, as the Council of State was about, where you can explain and defend that there should be no automatic. The Christian People's Party also believes that there are exceptional cases, very special cases, for example. people with a traumatic background who do not understand the process being carried out. But far more important than these examples is the principle that we in the Grand Duchy do not adopt laws on the technique of en route in an asylum application that overlooks fundamental human rights and the best interests of the child. If we adopt an automatic law, we may risk preventing ourselves from taking care of a minor asylum seeker, which would be a serious violation of human rights. It's even more important than the practical examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e220	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 349]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e236	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. The President will also propose that those who are on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Bent Höie has the floor on behalf of Mr Kari Lise Holmberg, who is the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e247	Kari Lise Holmberg is not a member of the Odelstinget. That's the background for me taking the floor on behalf of her. This proposal has been promoted by the Progress Party on the basis of an example taken from a concrete case that has gone on for a long time. The matter was forwarded by the Committee to the Ministry for its opinion in order to clarify the matters under consideration, namely storage until dispatch is possible. The answer shows the international commitments Norway has with regard to the premises that must be used as a means of storage. I would just like to point out that, and that is what the majority, all parties other than the Advance Party, have based in their opinions. However, when the Right and the Left have to make a different proposal here than the majority, the governing parties and the Christian People's Party, it is because they use the concept that the proposal is 'not accepted', while the Right and Left want the proposal 'to be annexed to the Protocol'. The reason for this is that we believe that in the context of the work of the Foreign Affairs Act, which is also referred to in the response of the Council of State, there is reason to consider the use of custody when fulfilling the criteria imposed on us by international obligations. In any event, the right-wing party argues that detention in this type of case must be a form of last resort, but there is a clear legal basis for detention through the ongoing process, and not least that, of course, as a fundamental principle, it is not possible to hold custody indefinitely, but that there is a basis for a realistic end to storage. It is in a way the main challenge related to the primary proposal of the Progress Party. We do not therefore reject the intentions of the Advance Party, but we want this to be further assessed in connection with new foreign law, and will then return to that question. What I would also like to highlight in this matter is that the head of the PST has made a record – or a play, if you like – of another way of dealing with matters relating to people who may be a threat to the security of the state, in the judicial system. It is interesting to note that the two people who have been most positive about this proposal are the head of the PST itself and former municipal minister Erna Solberg, perhaps the two people in the country – other than the current Council of State – who know best about today's system related to the process of matters involving people who may be a threat to the security of the state. What is at least the Right's reason that we have signaled very early that we are positive about assessing that PST proposal is that we consider it to be a proposal that also involves a guarantee of legal certainty relating to the person involved in the process, and that our ordinary legal system, with the limitations of information relating to the basis of the decision, is not sufficiently capable of dealing with these matters, neither to ensure legal certainty for the person concerned, nor to obtain an effective and rapid procedure. So the reason for us is not to weaken legal certainty, but to strengthen it. I hope that proposal will be seriously evaluated by the Government, and that one notices that the two people who have supported this are the two who may well know this system personally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e260	A question to the representative Höie: Is the minority proposal from the Right and the Left now being taken up?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e263	Now the proposal is taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e268	The Progress Party has proposed the introduction of a closed custody permit for non-residents who have been deported in the light of national security. The proposal has its background in the Mulla Krekar case, but is proposed as a general rule. The Mulla Krekar case gives us a very special challenge. On the one hand, the court has established that this is a person who represents a danger to the security of the kingdom, and mulla Krekar has in many ways become the very symbol of people you don't want here in the country. That he still stays here, people rebel, and that's something we understand. We often encounter people's reactions to children being sent out, while Krekar gets to stay. On the other hand, an important objective is to ensure that a society respects and respects the rights of the individual, how it treats its criminals. Or to put it another way: even those we don't like have a right to respect their human rights. This case shows the dilemma we face. The world isn't as simple as we want it. We cannot therefore allow ourselves, as the Progress Party does on several occasions, to weaken respect for human rights when it comes to criminals. There is broad political agreement in Norway that the country should respect its obligations in relation to international agreements and international law. The UN resolutions on combating terrorism also underline the need for action to comply with international human rights, refugee law and humanitarian law. The Labour Party is concerned about the extent and extent of international terrorism. Work on countering and combating terrorism in Norway is given high attention and priority. Norway shall not become a port of refuge for persons who may be associated with terrorist networks or violent acts of an extreme nature. It is not clear whether the proposal of the Progress Party is limited to those foreigners who are currently inseparable. However, it is only in these cases that it is practical to consider the proposal, because in cases where there is no obstacle to return, there is already the provision of the applicable Foreign Law to impose reporting obligations, specific place of residence or detention and imprisonment where necessary to ensure the implementation of the expulsion decision. Prison can be decided for two weeks at a time for a total of six weeks. The proposal by the Progress Party here promotes will, after all, conflict with the prohibition of arbitrary detention in the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 5, which allows detention only in certain specified cases and in accordance with a procedure laid down by law. Against this background, the Workers' Party considers that the closed custody of unreturnables should not be assessed in the context of new foreign law and therefore supports the proposal in Document No. 8:23 is not accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e283	It is contrary to the basic legal opinion of most people that a person expelled from Norway who is considered to be a danger to the security of the state can walk freely in society. It is then absolutely necessary to introduce legal grounds to allow this type of person to be placed in closed custody. It takes this proposal into account, and – as it is quite rightly pointed out – there are people like Krekar and his case who are the starting points for this proposal. Every time we have addressed this type of proposal, reference is made to the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC. In this case, reference is made to Article 5. Every time you propose closed asylum or closed reception pending return, the EMK is the wall. It is the EMK that will prevent us from doing what I almost have the impression that the Workers' Party also sees as a not unreasonable act. But then I have to ask the Council of State to perhaps be a little more critical of their own office, because on every occasion you refer to the EMC, you do it blindly without considering that it is actually other countries in Europe that have acceded to the European Convention on Human Rights, which practises these kinds of arrangements. The Netherlands is doing it. The Netherlands has received a lot of criticism on a number of occasions, and cases have been attempted. But you haven't won so far. It is clear that the foreign office in Norway is of a different opinion from the corresponding agencies in the Netherlands. I ask that perhaps you try to have a slightly more nuanced attitude to this and consider it concrete, rather than simply rejecting it with reference to the EMK. Maybe that's how EMK isn't the only thing that's true on every occasion. When one refers, as is quite right, to Norway’s failure to send out Krekar because there is no sufficient guarantee that he will not receive the death penalty when he is returned to Iraq, it is because Norway has acceded to international conventions restricting Norway’s conduct of such policies. In principle, it means the same thing as if, for example: Bin Laden, for some strange reason, would appear on Norwegian soil, we cannot hand him over to the United States because he is in danger of getting a death penalty – a fairly hopeless position we have placed ourselves in. The question is whether you shouldn't be a little bit more critical before you join international conventions, maybe to a greater extent make reservations, and not least go back and look at the conventions you've already acceded to, and try to get renegotiated and reassessed parts of them. Other European nations have also been consulted. Specifically in relation to Article 5 of the ECHR, I simply believe that the Council of State is not right. If it is the case that the Council of State and the Government parties do not want to take any concrete action to assess that matter, it is an expression of a lack of political will. If you wanted to assess it, you wouldn't have rejected the proposal from the Progress Party. Then they had attached that protocol, as the right one points out. But you choose to reject the proposal. Thus, the political will is not even present to assess this more thoroughly and carefully. The Progress Party believes that Norway has a greater degree of freedom to practise such rules. It should be a matter of course, as most people outside this room understand, that we have a responsibility to protect society for people who are judged to be a danger to the security of the state. I bring this up with the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e300	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Thus, both minority proposals have been addressed, proposal No. 1 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and proposal No. 2 from the right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e305	Mulla Krekar is defined as a danger to national security. Both the previous and this government have clearly said that he should be expelled. That's the facts. Then come realities and principles. The reality is that Iraq is characterized by lawlessness, and people are killed like flies. There is death penalty in the country, and we in Norway have a principle of not sending people to safe death or torture. I am glad that both the previous government and this government have said that no matter how much we wish to expel Mulla Krekar, we will maintain the basic principles. You can imagine, well, we can't expel him, so let's close him and others in his situation inside. The idea is captivating and very simple – I just have to admit that. Many out there, as my fellow Members have said, also see it as a pleasurable idea. This is where the principles of the rule of law and our responsibility as responsible politicians in the Norwegian metropolitan area emerge. Such situations, which appear to be very simple in their complexity, require that we not be blinded by emotions, ‘follow-up’ and opportunism. In its letter of 16 January 2007, the Council of State makes it duly clear to the Storting that, according to judgment, a detention where a removal process has not been initiated would be contrary to Article 5 of the ECHR. I have great respect for the fact that the West has been working for a long time, for the last 100 years, in putting in place and developing legal societies and principles that many other societies in the world should use as an example for the further development of their societies. Then the West must take care of it, and we must ensure that these legal principles are followed, even when it really does not. It is a disgrace – I fully agree with the Progress Party that it is a lie that a human being declared a danger to our security cannot be sent out. It's a lie. Right then, it is important that we uphold our principles. On the basis of these considerations, we will reject the proposal put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e318	Representatives of the Progress Party have proposed that foreign residents with expulsion orders, based on national security, may remain in closed custody with letter and visit control until such time as the expulsion can be effective. The provision of the Foreign Affairs Act that says that you can be expelled when the security of the State so requires is a provision that is very rarely used. The proposal has been promoted by the Progress Party in different variants up through the years – now in a more refined version than before, because this time the proposal does not concern asylum seekers in general but those at risk of national security. But we know that the Progress Party also wants a closed asylum system for those other than those who are defined as a danger to the security of the state. In the context of the proposal, the representatives of the Progress Party also wrote that in 2006 it was revealed by the TV 2 Nettavisen that 800 Northern Iraqs had disappeared in Norway after having received a refusal to apply for a new residence permit and that, according to a Fafo report, there were 19 000 residents at the reception of asylum seekers in the period 1998 to 2004, without giving the reason or destination. Yes, but is the solution to this problem to lock everyone in the closed reception instead? I don't think so. We need more knowledge about where these people disappear, and we need more knowledge about how many people actually live illegally in Norway. But we don't have to deprive people who haven't done anything wrong, their freedom of movement. ‘We are trailers of closed solutions. We want an institution where people who are going to be sent out or people we don't know about should not be able to leave to go underground." This was said by Per-Willy Amundsen to Folkebladet on 13 March this year. In 2006, around 2 700 persons from Norway travelled with the assistance of the authorities following the final rejection of the asylum application, either after a decision on expulsion or expulsion. I can never stand behind a proposal to lock up people who have not done anything wrong yet. In a human rights perspective, it is extremely problematic for me. At the same time, I see that it is not unproblematic that a person who has the status of a danger to national security can move freely in Norway. As others have said before, in their letter to the Committee, the Council of State points out that it is not clear whether the proposal is limited to foreigners currently insurmountable. But it's actually only for these cases that it's practical to consider the proposal. In cases where there is no obstacle to return, the law already provides for reporting obligations, specific place of residence or arrest and imprisonment where necessary for the implementation of decisions. The Progress Party uses Krekar as an example and argument to introduce closed custody into this proposal. It is not surprising that the Progress Party is pushing Krekar forward in immigration policy. Following the promotion of the proposal, the Government has also taken the initiative to investigate the freedom of movement of Krekar. This initiative supports the Christian People's Party because the Krekar case is incomprehensible to most of us. But the Krekar, whether we like it or not, has the right to be treated in such a way that his human rights are not violated. We need to take this challenge seriously. That is why it is very good that we now need to explore the possibilities for action that actually exists within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights. This is the way to go. The detention of non-residents may be contrary to the prohibition of arbitrary detention. From this point of view, the Christian People's Party and the majority of the Committee believe that, in the context of new foreign law, we should not consider closed custody. That is why it is right to agree that the proposal we are considering today is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e338	The proposers address a very difficult topic. Difficult themes rarely have simple solutions. The left agrees with the proposers that, in some cases, it is problematic that persons who have been deported are moving freely in Norwegian society. This is particularly true where expulsion is due to the fact that he is considered a threat to the security of the State or because he or she has been punished for having committed a terrorist act or for financing a terrorist act. However, the left cannot see the appropriateness of making a rule, as proposed by the proposers, which means that these persons are automatically kept in custody, with letter and visit control. Such a rule will be too general, and it will also be able to break our international human rights obligations. The left will more than want to discuss what can be done to balance the security of the state and the individual's rights. But general rules, as proposed here, do not believe in the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e346	Let me start by saying that of course I also look with concern at the extent and extent of international terrorism. The work on countering and combating terrorism in Norway is one of my priorities, and my attention is focused on this field. It is important to take the necessary measures to ensure the security of the population and of the State. Deportees may remain in prison for up to six weeks when necessary to ensure the implementation of the decision. This applies even if the basis is the security of the State. In some cases, the expelled person may not leave the country because he/she must be regarded as protected from expulsion under the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 3, which obliges him/her to provide protection against «torture» and «inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment». These foreigners cannot be kept in prison without delay. Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights prohibits arbitrary detention. There is a condition under the Convention for the detention of persons to be sent out of the country that measures be taken for the purpose of dispatch. If the authorities are not able to demonstrate that the broadcast is being prepared, detention will involve infringement of the Convention. The proposal of the representatives Jensen, Amundsen and Ellingsen takes, as I see it, primarily in view of those who are not in a position to send out, the unreturnable. Against these foreigners it cannot be claimed that ‘transmission is in preparation’. The proposal on detention will therefore be contrary to our human rights obligations. In the vote, the members of the Progress Party propose that the detention be limited in time, ‘in the event that the return has not been effected within a reasonable period of time, the matter must be re-examined in relation to whether it is still to be regarded as a threat to the security of the State.’;» This clarification does not change my position on the proposal. I also find reason to point out the unrealistic in assuming that foreigners expelled for the sake of the security of the kingdom would suddenly no longer be a danger. Then I hear the representative Amundsen point out that what might underlie these assessments is a somewhat narrow understanding of the EMK, and that it is the bureaucrats in Norway who have not understood the EMK. I very much disagree with that. I believe that what I have now said as an explanation for the EMC is based on a broad, common European understanding of the EMC. This refers to the Netherlands. Our clear assessment of this is that the proposal that the Progress Party has made here is not comparable to the provisions that exist in the Netherlands. Our clear assessment is that e.g. Mulla Krekar, as referred to in the proposal, after the Dutch rules could not be placed under detention in the Netherlands. These are not home-deep Norwegian assessments. These are common, broad assessments of the EMK. I am enough, with all due respect to report, to place greater emphasis on the expert opinions based on that assessment than the assessments that come from the representative Amundsen here today. I would also like to say that when the UN and the UN Security Council promote their resolutions on combating terrorism, it is stressed that action must be in accordance with international human rights, refugee law and humanitarian law. The fight against terrorism must not become a pretext for evading fundamental principles of law and of legal certainty. Then I would also like to say that the theme expelled foreigners who pose a threat to the security of the state will be assessed in the work on new foreign law. The Foreign Law Committee has proposed that persons whose sole reason for stay is the protection against posting are granted a temporary residence permit where it may be required to stay at a specific location. The government will come back to this in the proposal for a new law on foreigners and in the follow-up to this law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e373	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e376	Of course, there is no disagreement that the rule of law is a principle, but it has to do with how to design such a system as the Progress Party has proposed here. It is absolutely essential that this does not conflict with the principles of the rule of law, and is therefore also essentially, in our opinion, in line with the EMK. The reference to the Netherlands is most relevant. Here, there is a disagreement between me and the Council of State about the practice being practised in the Netherlands. But we can take a closer look at that. My point and my question to the Council of State is this: there are significant obstacles in international conventions to the implementation of what is sensible national policy. Will the Council of State take the initiative to take a closer look at the conventions of which Norway is bound and, where appropriate, reconsider/renegotiate parts of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e383	I think that's what's the starting point and the dilemma we're reaching, for example. considering such a basic document as the European Convention on Human Rights is that on a general principle, we all think this is very nice and great, we are very much for it, we are very concerned with legal certainty, and we are very concerned about human rights. But then all of a sudden we're challenged on some of our principles because we get a person, mulla crickets, in our own middle. Then it's very quick to say what the Progress Party says, that the principles apply to everyone else, but not to us, because now we have such a special situation, which is so unique to us in Norway, that we have to be allowed to deal with the principles of human rights as we would like to have them. It's just the kind of assessment that's so dangerous. It's just when we get challenges in the middle, that we have to be able to be big enough to say that even for mulla Krekar, some fundamental human rights apply. That's what makes us so good, and that's what makes what he stands for, not so good.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e388	One may have his reflections around it that the party most often talks about our common European values, and about how important it is to preserve them, is the first party to speak of breaking what is perceived as the very basic common European values through the EMC. But I'll let that lie. My question is related to what I mentioned in my post, namely the PST manager's proposal to have a separate specialised court system in this kind of case. My question to the Council of State is: Is it so that the Government is now making a concrete assessment of that proposal, and can you wait for a response to the Stortinget on that proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e395	Let me first start by saying that I heard carefully what the representative Höie said in his post. I believe that there are exciting reflections both on him, on Erna Solberg, and on the Right in relation to the recording that came from the PST manager. But then I have to answer it honestly, that court structure and that kind of question lie with the Department of Justice. PST is an establishment in connection with the Ministry of Justice. I just don't know how that recording is now received in the Ministry of Justice, and how they plan to handle it. If I had wanted to, I wouldn't have been able to answer. I don't even want to answer, so at least there will be no answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e402	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e407	Let me start by saying that the last answer from the Council of State was so far maybe the best answer today. - Enough about that. There has been an interesting debate in many ways, I think, with different approaches. Although we have the same ambition, some are offensive, and others are very defensive. I have to say that I let myself be provoked and surprised to some extent when the representative Stokkan-Grande points out that mulla Krekar upsets the people most, that the Workers' Party is concerned, and that Norway should not be a haven. Reality is the exact opposite. Mulla Krekar today has a free port and walks freely around this country and provokes people most, as the representative Stokkan-Grande himself pointed out, but you just don't want to do anything about it. So to the representative Chaudhry who also draws some of the same things. He points out that we're bound by some rule of law, and therefore we can't exhibit mulla Krekar. Yeah, that's possible. He talked about the rule of law and responsibility. Yes, for whom? Why should it be that a terrorist should have a stronger legal protection than the people most have? Why is it that Mulla Krekar's needs in the worst case should be at the expense of the needs of the Norwegian people, because that could be a possible consequence of it? But the principle that Chaudhry and others use is that we, the Norwegian people, are willing to take a big look at it as long as we take care of mulla crickets. That's what I think is a provocation, and I think it's a long way to go. So to the representative Tørresdal who also spoke about the hidden motive of the Progress Party in this matter, since we have previously proposed that the non-returnable should be kept behind locks and beats until as far as possible. She mentioned that there are some people who have disappeared from this country and that they have not done anything wrong. It is possible that my legal knowledge is somewhat limited, but I thought that if you stay illegally in a country, you don't have the right to be there. It is possible that I am wrong, but at least that is my opinion. That's also how, I think, many who have listened to this debate would be surprised at how busy we are to protect an individual, in the worst case, at the expense of the rest of society. What we need now is action. I heard that the council replied to the first line from the representative Amundsen that we could not do it because we were bound by other things. But it is well that it is quite common to have some exceptional rules to take care of the very special conditions that the general part of the legislation does not cover up. If not, the law was static. The law is not static, the law has a width in it. There has to be judgement there, but a lot of law paragraphs also have an exception just to be able to take account of the special cases, as we think this is. I must also say to the proposal itself that it would have been interesting with a slightly more offensive committee. I hear the council says you're working on it and you're going to come back. But there are no political leaders, no recordings, however, except for the performances of the Right and Left. I think that's a little mysterious in a case that, to those degrees, upsets the Norwegian people. The next thing we can expect now is mulla Krekar and Osama bin Laden hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e422	What this debate has shown, above all, is that the majority in this Chamber do not want to do anything about matters such as the Krekar case, and then you hide behind some international conventions. One refers to the rule of law and says that nothing can be done because of Norwegian obligations and the rule of law. Then I have to say that I am a little upset. If it is a party that really takes the principles of the rule of law seriously, it is precisely the Progress Party. There are no problems in incorporating these types of measures and reconciling them with good rule of law. Then there are essentially two things we have to take care of. Firstly, that a storage is not unlimited in time. It has to be a time limit – that's the first. Then we have to have an opportunity to appeal. These are natural things in a state of law, which, of course, the Progress Party feels committed to. But to say that this is generally to set e.g. Cricket's legal certainty in danger, I think, becomes special, when all you do is refer to the wording of the EMK. The EMK is not the only true truth in relation to fundamental values and fundamental principles. There are many issues in the EMK that can be discussed. There are a number of nations that, in their treatment of national conventions, make reservations in a number of areas. Norway is the country that swallows everything raw. So it's nothing special that a country takes reservations or refrains from joining parts of international conventions. The fact that something's in the EMK doesn't make it the right thing. We can consider, on our own basis, the implementation of important principles of the rule of law, and I see no problem in that we should actually do it in this particular case. Then I think it's a little naive when the representative Tørersdal of the Christian People's Party makes a statement that you can't "lock up people who haven't done anything wrong yet." We're talking about people who are thought to be a danger to the security of the state. Crickets are terrorists. What you know about his past suggests that the man is a terrorist. And then there's a man who hasn't done anything wrong? Now I think the Christian People's Party should connect to the real world and not continue this theoretical rose painting of the situation, because you have to be realistic about these kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e431	The President is uncertain whether the characteristic ‘swallows everything raw’ is whether an entire nation is parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e434	I'm not going into polemics here, because I think it's for no purpose. But for the sake of the protocol, I feel the need to say the following: what we are discussing now concerns people who have been expelled and who under the Foreign Affairs Act pose a threat to the security of the state. So it is not persons who have committed criminal acts in Norway. Then we have the penal code and the kind of laws being implemented. The assessment of the application of this provision is, of course, whether it is considered that there is a risk that the person concerned may contribute in some way to the safety of the State. So the principle we're discussing is whether a person who hasn't done anything wrong can be held in prison custody. In this way, I think that the dilemma that Dryersdal raised is most relevant. I don't want to use this speaker to characterize Mula Krekar, but I just find that the foreign agencies have assessed it so that he is a danger to the security of the state, in the sense that I have now explained, and the court has not tried that decision. Then I think it is important to say when it is said that the consequence of the fact that this type of person is not returnable is that they go freely without taking any action at all, that we have a number of legal provisions in Norway that allow the police to accompany people in a set of ways, if they think that this is the basis. We have quite comprehensive provisions that give us, for example: PST access to action. Whether it's done in relation to individuals, I have no idea. However, saying that when a person is expelled for the sake of national security and is not put in custody means that he is definitely going around without any action being taken is a far too simple conclusion, without, as I said, having any basis for wondering whether that type of action has been taken against individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e444	First, to the representative Ellingsen, who was surprised by my opinions on all those who have disappeared from Norwegian asylum recipients. Now I didn't say that the Progress Party had hidden motives. No, I think it is quite open that the Progress Party wants closed custody for all those who have been denied an application for residence here in the country, even for those who are irreversible. This believes the Christian People's Party is wrong. An unreturnable person is one who cannot stay in Norway and who cannot go home. It's an unsustainable situation, and we're not going to put these people in jail. We're going to try to figure out what we can do for this group, because it's totally unsustainable – even from a human rights perspective – that people are in the situation that they can't stay, they can't get work, but for various reasons we can't send them home either because we don't have an agreement, or because it's disturbing in the country they came from. I have met unreturnable people who have been sitting for up to eight years without being able to work and without being able to travel home. This is a situation that we have to take seriously. We must not put them in prison. So to the representative of Amundsen's comments on the Christian People's Party posts in the case of Mulla Krekar. It is right that I can never stand behind a proposal to lock people away who have not done anything wrong. I'm glad the Council of State supports that statement, that it's not that we can put people in jail because they can do something wrong. At the same time it has to be said that in the Mulla Krekar case there is a need to do something. That is why it is right – and I support it – that an initiative has now been taken to find out: What can we do? What action can be taken within the framework of the European Convention on Human Rights? It becomes too easy to adopt a law that will automatically detain. We need to find out what measures we are going to take to create security in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e451	I must start again by thanking the Council of State for clarifying the relationship between terrorist law and criminal law. I fully agree that one can of course be dealt with under the penal code if one per. definition has done something wrong. But then I guess we've come to a point where we've already lost. I believe that part of the terrorist legislation has the ambition to prevent and prevent terrorism. If that's not the case, we've bombed. Why do we have to keep getting behind? Why should we be after the problem? Some of the laws have no doubt the ambition to take care of the Norwegian people, the Norwegian society, and prevent it from being subjected to criminal acts, cf. Terrorism, which we could have prevented. If anything should happen in this country, and then questions were asked later about the competence of this forum and asked why we didn't do anything about it, then we should say, no, it was so difficult, and we have to look at the experience to get a basis for it. Why are we going to use the Norwegian people, the Norwegian society, as a test-cloth to see if we're good enough? We could have discussed the NOKAS case as a reference point. We kind of have a distinction as to what we see as crime in Norway, namely, before and after NOKAS. Before NOKAS we had that initially nice and pleasant with more or less serious crime. After NOKAS it has changed. We've got a new regime after we were more or less exposed to a terrorist attack in Norway, a command raid, which caused us to wake up. Do we have to do the same with terror? In this case, who will pay the price of this test ring? Who's gonna pay the price? There's no one in here. It's the ordinary people who have to do in that case. We have tradition of naivety in this country. We have some hijackers that are here, one that is also regularly debated. It's unfortunately enough of examples to take care of our ability, or lack of ability, and the willingness to do something about it. So to the representative of the Dryersdal, who is talking about the non-returnables not being in prison. But wouldn't that be a strange consequence? They have to per. definition not here. We can't send them home. How do we perceive ourselves as society and our code when we say you can't be here, but you have to be here anyway? Personally, I think this is a stupid regime. You have to be about a politician to understand the logic of it. I don't think most people understand that. In conclusion, for my own part, I think I would rather live with criticism in the case of the EMK than have contributed to the Norwegian people being subjected to an action that we could have prevented and prevented.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e464	The President considers the concept of a 'damaging' regime to be an unparliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e467	I get the message from the representative Ellingen to the point that he is trying to create the impression that if terrorist activity is planned in Norway, we have no chance of detaining him. Of course we do. The basis for the expulsion of Mulla Krekar is not that he has planned terrorist activities. If it had been the starting point and it had been proven, the Krekar would have been imprisoned. It is this nuance that Ellingen and the Progress Party refuse to take on board their assessment, and rather try to scare away the fact that foreigners who walk around Norway and plan to terror will not be taken care of by the Norwegian judiciary. Of course they will.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e474	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 351]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e482	Then Odelstinget goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e490	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, No. 3 and 4, by Bent Höie, on behalf of the Right and Left Draft No. 5, from Tom Stroemstad Olsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Centre Party First of all, we are voting on the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e538	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e628	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Left will now support the vote. As mentioned above, the suspension of new § 37g has been replaced by proposal No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e641	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e651	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e659	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Bent Höie on behalf of Right and Left This is the first time that we are voting on the proposal by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law No 24 June 1988 64 on the admission of foreigners to the State and their residence here II Law 24 June 1988 No. 64 on the admission of non-residents to the State and their residence here is amended as follows:Article 29 new fifth subparagraph shall be replaced by the following:If the basis for expulsion is (d) or (e) of the provision, the foreigner shall remain in closed custody with letter and visit control until the expulsion is effective. [[Law on Foreign Affairs]] [[Law on Foreign Affairs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e704	There is an aberrant proposal here, No. 2, from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-27-lower.ana.ud2106e731	There is no record. Does anyone require the word under § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
