ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e22	The representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e42	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Dag Terje AndersenState Council Bjarne Håkon HanssenState Council Terje Riis-Johansen The President will state here that it is Dag Terje Andersen as Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, according to the letter we received from the Prime Minister's office. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e63	I have a question for the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. Now we can see and read daily in the news about another internal dispute between the government parties, and this time the new foreign law applies. The last thing we've heard in the media is that the government won't bring this law until June because of internal disagreement between the government parties. It is a little special that we can hear all these news in the media, while the Storting obviously does not get presented with this matter as the Government has long announced, and where it now seems to be internal disputes that are the cause. In the newspaper today, SV says that the discussion of the 21-year age limit is now politically dead, while the Council of State still assesses the so-called controversial proposal. But it is now so that in a new foreign law there are many important questions that at least the Progress Party is waiting for the Government to settle. Of course, it is the question of coercion, it is the time of proceedings for asylum seekers coming to Norway, it is possible for the Government to establish closed receptions for identityless asylum seekers instead of as today, that they are freely wandering around the Norwegian community. There are issues of sexual mutilation, and there has also become a growing problem of false age for many who come to Norway. My question to the Council of State is: Can the Council of State now guarantee that a new foreign law case will be brought to Stortinget in such a way that the Stortinget will be able to deal with this very important law before the summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e74	There are many things to comment on in the post, but let me first answer the question. The case is presented to the Stortinget in June. It would probably mean that at least the Stortinget would have to work extremely quickly if they were to be able to handle it before the summer. The matter has now come to this conclusion that I have sent the matter to what is known as the ministerial presentation, i.e. that it is now being sent around in the government system for one last round. That means that the proposition is done. All clarifications have been made, with one exception, which we have deliberately chosen to postpone – both because there is political discussion about it and because we find it difficult to conclude what kind of action will actually work – and that is the question of forced marriage. Otherwise, we have concluded politically on all issues in the Government regarding the Foreign Affairs Act. It is such that a ministerial presence and a legislative review in the Ministry of Justice of a 660-page proposition take some time. That is why it does not come until June. In the course of the time when the matter is on the table, we are going to finalise the discussion on action against forced marriage, so that it is phased into the final reading and becomes part of the law presented in June. That means that the Storting then of course has full opportunity to do with what the Storing wants to do. I don't think I'm going to interfere in how the Storting puts up the treatment of the proposition. That means that there have been demanding issues. These are legally difficult issues. These are professionally difficult things. These are politically difficult things. Most things are such that there are arguments for and against, but we have worked throughout the spectrum of the foreign field and concluded in all areas. We will also be able to conclude on action against forced marriage and provide the law in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e87	I understand that a law that is now completely finished, you have to spend another four months finishing in the government before you can put it in front of the Stortinget. It's got to be the government's privilege. But the Council of State did not answer the question of whether it is that SV is right that the age limit debate is now dead. So if you're going to believe what SV says in the newspaper today, this is no longer a government issue. SV has won, and you no longer have to have an age limit against marriage. I would very much like the Council of State to respond to that. If the government now chooses to postpone this issue, so that the Storting cannot take a decision on this before the summer vacation, then the government also knows that the summer holiday is a time when many forced marriages are going on, and many young girls are afraid because they have no protection against this in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e96	The reason I did not answer in the first round is that that was not the question. I answered the question, and I think that representatives appreciate it. I think that Siv Jensen will also gain that experience, if her dream that one day she is in the government offices, is going to come true, that from a proposition it is politically clear until it has been through the quality assurance, among other things. with legal review in the Ministry of Justice, it takes some time. It's an experience I don't want Jensen to get, but it's at least an experience we're there that's got with us. Last but not least, when it comes to measures against forced marriage, there are different political views in the government parties. We're still keeping all the possibilities open as to whether we're going to use the Foreign Affairs Act, and then in what way. If we're going to use it, it's still in one of the options on the table, discussion about an age limit. But we also have other options, alternatives that might seem as good as an age limit can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e105	There will be follow-up questions – first Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e108	Unfortunately, not a new foreign law is the only one that takes a long time in the government. It is also announced through the media that there will be a communication on labour immigration. We have a situation in Norway where there is an alarming need for new labour to enter the market, and we see a government council that is both involved in media proceedings and is also discussing a great deal of the internal disagreement in the Government, through the media. The things we need to put in place in relation to labour migration are either explained by the previous government or by proposals that are already known. My question to the Council of State is therefore: why not use the existing legislation and the law? And why not look at the eleven right-wing proposals in the proposal for a representative on labour immigration, instead of going on study trips, instead of dealing with external media? Now is the time to deliver. Does the Council of State want to do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e115	Of course, I disagree very much with the reality description that the questioner gives. I believe it is important political issues that the previous government at all did not address, and that is why it is important that we address them now. One of these questions is, for example: on Norway, as a nation, shall have an active strategy related to labour immigration outside the EEA. Let's go outside the EEA together with, for example, Norwegian business to search for labour? We have no policy for that, no tradition for that, in Norway. I think it's very important that we have a politically thorough process when we travel that theme. The previous government didn't. We do it, and we do it in the form of a big message that comes to Stortinget when it's done. Otherwise, of course, I have registered the suggestions that have been made by the Right. I mean, for example. The removal of the transitional arrangements in relation to the EU Member States that joined in 2004 will in no way work as the Right believes it will work. That is why I am very critical that the Right has seen the answer to the challenges we have in the labour market, and that is why we are continuing to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e122	May-Helen Molvær Grimstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e126	Last year the Christian People's Party took the initiative to establish a foreign law that specifically treats children. Children in reception of asylum are deprived of the possibility of having a good childhood when the asylum process takes a long time. Their childhood is on hold. It is difficult to provide a good schooling and a good follow-up to health problems. Receptions shall be temporary cut-offs and shall not be designed to accommodate children and parents for a long period of time. However, it turns out that there are many children and families who stay for several years at the reception of asylum. After the Stortinget deals with the proposals of the Christian People's Party, the Ministry has sent out a change in the rules with a view to placing more emphasis on the children's situation when retiring. The laws of a foreign country have been re-exposed. Can the Council of State say whether it will have consequences for this work? The Christian People's Party is impatient with the care of the children. When will a rule change be in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e133	Now I am aware of the commitment that the Christian People's Party – together with several – has attached to this matter. It was a Document No. 8-proposals by Bjørg Tørresdal and Jon Lilletun, which formed the basis for the decisions taken by Stortinget, and which we have followed up afterwards. As the questioner says, we have had a prescription out at the hearing. This consultation round has now been completed. We're going to review the hearing opinions, and we're going to implement that regulation during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e138	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e141	As far as coercion is concerned, I think the Left will give the Council of State the view that one should not think collective, but think individually, and then there are many good examples that hit right without cutting everyone over one comb. My question is precisely that man should be seen as a human being, whether it does good or bad. I hope we don't have to wait for a new foreign law when a grandmother from Bosnia is denied a visit visa to Norway on the grounds that she gets a lot of connection with Norway because her sons are here, while the same arguments would actually give her a family reunion. The lady doesn't want to go to Norway, because she has someone to take care of in Bosnia. This is going to be all wrong. I stand here with a request about what the Storting has been sympathetic to, namely, the love visa, that young people can find out if they really want to be together. It doesn't give them any other rights, but the law is so rigid that you don't see people. I hope that the Council of State in its time of thinking, while waiting for the Foreign Affairs Act, looks at these visa regulations, which are obviously unfair to an old grandmother who wants to see her sons before she dies, and young people who want to find out whether love is real or not, and who won't cheat on the legislation. It must not be the case that the legislation takes precedence over reasonable human considerations. Then it's bureaucracy that wins, and not what I see as the will of the Council of State to think humanistically.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e152	Let me start by saying that as far as the visa code is concerned, I haven't made a single change after I got to the department. The visa code we now have is exactly the same as when Dørum himself put in government. In this way, I do well to meet with criticism from others that this area is continuing the policy of the previous government. So to the extent that it is unreasonable today, it was unreasonable when Dørum himself was the Council of State. Of course, as I have said in Stortinget before, the challenge of visa legislation is that the few destroy the many. It's a dilemma for us. The few who try to trick us make us have to have a policy that is more restrictive than what I think both me and Dørum want. It's a dilemma that is not least connected to the fact that we're constantly being tricked. That's something we're constantly working on, and at least I can assure Dørum that I feel that we have the same starting point for that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e159	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e162	I want to follow up on two unclear answers that the Council of State gave to questions from the representative Siv Jensen. First, the question he did not answer: Does the Government consider setting up closed receptions for asylum seekers? And: is it true that Kristin Halvorsen is wrong when she says that the debate on the 21-year age limit for the collection of spouses in the country of origin is dead?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e169	We're going to go out and tell you about the government's conclusions on the day we file the Foreign Affairs Act. We're now in a phase where we quality assurance everything we've done, and everything we've concluded with. To the question of closed receptions: if it is understood that the aim is to ensure that people, for example: final rejection of an asylum application, and pending exit, shall arrest them and place them in closed reception/prison-like measures, is not part of the Government's policy. I know that the Progress Party disagrees with that, but I think deeply and deeply that we have very good evidence that it will be clear in violation of fundamental human rights that Norway is obliged to follow. In this way, I am proud to live in a country that says that e.g. We fully follow the European Convention on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e176	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e179	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. The shortage of labour is acute and is getting really critical. This puts pressure on prices and wages and rising interest rates. Then it is incomprehensible to me that we have a government and a council that seems like he is completely unable to act. Instead, the Government is actively helping to exacerbate the problems — by making it more expensive for businesses to employ older workers, by actively defending an AFP system that exports healthy and employs people out of work on express terms, and by making it illegal for businesses to give young people a chance on the labour market by allowing temporary employment. In addition, we see that sick leave is at a very high level, and that the number of malnourished persons is rising. I hear the Council of State is proud to live in Norway. In the political debate in Norway, we like to boast that Norway is the world’s best country to live in. But at the same time, we allow almost 800,000 people of pre-employment age to be out of work. At least there is not much to brag about, nor is it more profitable for many to go to social security than to be in work, or for large groups almost not to pay off to work. It's directly shameful and definitely not much to brag about or be proud of. If we are to succeed in providing sufficient skilled labour for the private and public sectors, we must both mobilise heavily from our own labour reserve and take a much more offensive approach to labour immigration. The problem is here now and requires action now. What will the Council of State do in concrete terms other than travel on foreign study trips, think loudly in the media, and announce ever-new big business messages? What measures does the Council of State want to adopt now, in 2007, which will work in 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e190	I'm actually a little bit surprised by the angle of incidence of the question. Yes, I am proud to live in Norway. I think it's scary, too. One of the reasons why I actually think it's interesting to pursue politics in Norway is that in some very important areas, we actually have a very broad consensus on what is needed to make important changes in Norwegian society. Some of the main challenges we are facing now are to be better able to get more of those who are in working age and who are not in the labour market to participate in the labour market. Therefore, this government follows in many ways the same lead as the previous government. That is why in these areas we are now in the process of implementing the most important social reforms. That is why we have adopted the NAV reform, which is one of the biggest reorganisations we have ever faced, precisely because we have to solve the challenges of getting more in work, less on social benefits, better than we have done before. We've agreed on that. The proposal was promoted in Stortinget, the previous message was submitted by the Bondevik II government, and it is now followed up by us. We agree that we need to implement a pension reform that stimulates people to stand longer in work. Work has gone like a baton from the Stoltenberg I government of the Bondevik II government and now to the Stoltenberg II government. That is why I have followed up Storting's desire for a change of welfare policy and presented the paper on work, well-being and inclusion. We are now taking serious action against the entire welfare management, both the welfare policy mechanism and the organisation of Velferds-Norway. These are the biggest reforms that this society has been working on in years and days, perhaps with the exception of the health reform. Now trying to describe reality as doing something dramatic other than what you would have done is actually wrong. It is very unfortunate for Norwegian policy to try to describe reality in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e200	In general, for all the current state councils, there are measures that will work on a long-term basis. I remember a former well-known parliamentarian from the Council of State's own party who said: People are not in the long term, they are every day. There's something about the government talking, the government investigating, and the government notifying me of a big message, but you don't solve an acute problem here and now in 2007 by notifying me of a big-time report coming next year. Today we heard at NRK News today that one of the four AFP pensioners wants to return to work and regret that they went out in an AFP life. What's the Council of State going to do with that? Is he going to make arrangements so that those who want to and can contribute to his labour force are actually allowed to combine work and social security in a completely different way from what is possible today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e207	The number of young people growing is lower in 2006 than in 2005. So if there had been any such 'quick wins', like 'just do it', would you have done it when you were sitting with government power? It didn't happen then, and the reason why we can't do it now is that there are no such quick shortcuts. We have to take it through the major reforms, and that is why we are not. The NAV reform we are just planning and writing messages about. Last year, on 1 July, the Employment and Welfare Act was established, last year, on 1 July, NAV came into place in all counties, last year, beyond the harvest, all counties of the country got NAV offices. This year we set up 120 NAV offices. We work on it every day. It is precisely because of the experience with the AFP that we have presented a big deal about pensions, where we outline what the Government wants the future AFP to look like, and where we put forward cooperation with the social partners so that we can put in place a new AFP scheme in advance of the main tariff settlement in 2008, which makes it possible to combine work and pensions in full. That's because reality is the way it is, that we're actually doing concrete things.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e212	There will be follow-up questions – Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e215	I think it's neat that the Council of State says that, in terms of the long-term measures, the policies of the previous government are being followed up. It is not so common to hear from state councils who actually do, but who often boast about something else in the debate. We are in an economic situation now that is different from the one in which the previous government was. We have an overheated economy, and every time the Minister of Finance is asked about the rising interest rate, she answers that she does not know what to do with the public expenditure next year, because it depends on what access we have to labour. Hanssen State Council is therefore Minister for Labour Access, and my question is, What are you doing today to improve access to labour? We have promoted a proposal that the Government agrees with, but which it will not implement until after the pension reform, namely to do something about the 67-70 problem, i.e. that older people feel that they do not earn anything to work after they reach the age of 67. Will the Council of State do anything about it now? We need some measures that work now. If not the interest rate gets higher, and we get less services in the public sector, because the effect of the money gets less.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e224	Of course, I disagree with Erna Solberg that we're not doing anything right now. We have made it possible to work actively in Europe, so that we now have a very high level of labour immigration. It is necessary to reduce the current pressure on the Norwegian labour market. That's why we have per cent. Today about 50,000 work permits for individuals valid in the Norwegian labour market, as well as a significant amount of service and labour immigration. Then we have a stake in labour market measures to mobilise the part of the working life that is either the ordinary unemployed or the disabled, which is at a much higher level than under the previous government. We now feel that we have lower leave and a higher level, for example. in the case of measures for the disabled than you had when the leave was higher than it is today. So saying that we don't bet on the labour market becomes a description of our own policy that leads to it coming into a strange light, I feel. In addition to spending on the labour market and on labour immigration, we are now systematically focusing on the long-term measures that we believe in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e231	The President must remember that the speech must be made through the President and that speaking time must be observed. Kenneth Svendsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e236	I'm going to come up with a couple of measures that can give immediate effect. In addition, I recommend reading the proposals of the Progress Party for the State budget. There are many good solutions that would have brought people to work quickly, including: that you cut out the abbreviation from 67 to 70 years. Another important measure to get more people to work is for those who are currently in a condition of health and are waiting for an operation or treatment and who are not receiving it. In the context of the IA Agreement, 600 million have been allocated. NOK to get this started. According to a response from the Council of State in January, nothing is currently in place. That means they don't know where to treat them. Are they to be treated in private institutions, or are they to be treated in health establishments? If they are treated at health establishments, are they going to push those who are in line today further into line? That is why it is very important that we get this going. When can we start treating these patients, so that they quickly get back into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e243	I believe that the representative agrees, not least since he comes from the Progress Party, that when you are going to spend between 500 and 600 million. kr in this market, a good part of this is to be tendered so that everyone, including private operators, can participate in that work. That is why we are now carrying out a tendering process in the Labour and Welfare Act. Then we follow a tendering code with deadlines that will take some time to have the tenders announced, reviewed, adopted and started. But it's an interesting signal if the Progress Party thinks we're just going to spend that money on the public sector, and for example. do not use private operators and do not have tendering processes. If that's the signal, I'm not sure if it's possible to do it, but we'll at least consider dropping everything that's called tender, and going faster. In addition, the first patients in the health sector will be treated with this money in March.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e250	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e253	First, let me pay tribute to the Council of State for a very proper follow-up to both NAV reform, pension reform and welfare notification. But we have a screaming shortage of labour in this country, and then it's a big paradox that we at the same time experience disabled, elderly and immigrants being excluded from the labour market. In today's country we can read about May Britt Haug, weak minded and highly educated. She has applied for 40 jobs, but gets none, and that in a situation where her competence should have been requested. Then I agree with those who have said that it is okay with the big grips, they will work in the long term, but the question is what the Council of State will do in relation to removing this great paradox that the country needs this workforce, we need the skills – we may need a slightly different competence, but we cannot see that people in Norway who want to work, don't get a job, while the working life really needs them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e260	When the representative Højbrätten now uses examples of immigrants, disabled people, etc., I would also like to refer to some media lookups today, which go on all the measures taken by the Government to mobilise more immigrants into the labour market, not least in relation to using the state sector very offensively. We had a meeting with a number of state enterprises yesterday, where an evaluation report was also presented on the effects we have had of last year's measures to increase the number of immigrants entering the labour market, and to use the state sector as an instrument. There's the good results. This shows that we also work systematically in the short term. I agree with the Højbråten that we are struggling to have an impact on the challenge of disabled people. But what is the real answer to this challenge is, in many ways, the use of labour market measures, labour market policy, as the Højbråtten knows well, in the same offensive way to the groups as to the other labour market groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e268	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e271	I agree with the Council of State that NAV is the framework tool, but there is something else that needs to be filled in. The left has, among others: the proposal for greater flexibility in relation to the labour market, temporary employment, greater flexibility of arrangements and the removal of transitional arrangements. I see that the Council of State has been on a study trip in Canada. I wonder: is it so that there may be more flexible arrangements and a little more liberal rules there – which may be the answer to increasing and improving labour supply also in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e278	That's not what was in focus in Canada. It was massive labour immigration. I think it's important to learn a part of the experience in Canada, but it doesn't automatically lead to us copying everything. One example that is often used here is that we can do something about – as the Left also suggests – removing the transitional arrangements. I think it'll seem the opposite. I think that some of the reasons why we can recruit so much labour, for example. from Poland, workers in Poland know that if they come to Norway, they are quite likely to have work and pay terms sorted out. This means that we have much greater access to labour, for example. from Poland than the Swedes, who do not have transitional arrangements. It is not the case that those countries which have transitional arrangements do not have labour force, while those countries which do not have it do have labour force. The experience with transitional arrangements in Norway is that we are getting more immigrants from, for example: Poland than the vast majority of European countries do.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e285	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e288	Several former oil workers have contacted me during the last year. They have told alarming stories about major health problems after many years of work in the petroleum industry. Cancer, MS-like symptoms, severe skin reactions and depression are punctures that describe some of what these people are struggling with. These meetings have made a strong impression on me. It is important to ensure the proper treatment of former oil workers. Many have suggested that it is very difficult to demonstrate that health disorders are occupationally related. It is explained that oil companies do not provide good information about the chemicals to which they have been exposed. That is why I challenged the Council of State in the Question Time last week to set up a commission of inquiry. My challenge was fading. The Council of State stated that companies provide high-quality information and stated that this was also confirmed by the vocational medical departments. When serious concerns about holding back poison information are refuted in such a categorical way, I assume that it is based on thorough investigations. The surprise was therefore great when I was able to read the following day in the media that the heads of occupational health centres were very far away from the Council's reality description. Head of Division Aasen of Haukeland stated: ‘There is a possibility that former Ekofisk workers have already received a negative occupational health examination from us, based on too thin a basis.’ With this in mind, I would like to ask if the Council of State would like to correct the information of the Storting on the willingness of oil companies to cooperate in cases of serious health damage to former oil workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e300	Firstly, I very much agree with Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund that this is an important matter. Let me just say it's not just about the oil industry. I think it's very important that we are aware that we also have a history in land-based industries where people have often been exposed to chemicals, without a full overview of what they have been exposed to, and that we have this kind of problem in the land industry, perhaps as much as in the oil and offshore industries. So concretely to the question. I think it's very important that we realize that there's a difference between whether, for example. ConocoPhillips, who was the theme of the meeting in question, provides the information they actually have — that is, not secret information — and, the second part of the question, whether they actually have information. Is the problem of lack of access to existing information, or is the problem missing information on the situation 35 years ago? On Monday I had a meeting with the professional medical departments in Haukeland and in Telemark, where Tor B. Aasen and Anne Kristin Møller Fell were present. They then confirmed my story directly in contact with me. The fact is, there have been challenges to ConocoPhillips in obtaining information, but after the meeting that was in December, to which I referred in my answer, they say that they now have a clear impression and confidence that they are getting out available information. But both we, ConocoPhillips and the occupational medicine departments agree that it is a problem that not all information is available. That's too much we don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e309	I am pleased that the Council of State has nuanced its opinions somewhat, and that he has also met with representatives of the Professional Medical Department. The Councils of State have inter alia: informed Stortinget about a project that monitors current knowledge of toxic exposure. Last week he stated that there was hope that these measures will contribute to increased knowledge of the work environment situation — and is — on Norwegian soil. I think it's too passive just to bet on actions that give hope of knowledge. Authorities need to implement measures that effectively contribute to a sound working environment and knowledge of work-related health damage. Will the Council of State continue to consider the need for new measures, in the interest of scrutiny, which may reveal the reason why many former oil workers today are left with damaged health?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e318	I think the questioner might not quite hear what I said. So I haven't nuanced my statements. I have confirmed that the statements I made last Wednesday, votes, namely that the vocational medicine departments are satisfied with what they are now getting from ConocoPhillips. That's what I said, and that's what I'm saying now. In line with what we presented in the big news about the health, environment and safety of the petroleum industry, which was dealt with by the committee Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, we are working just after what Stortingen was doing in determining. We now have a group, consisting of employers and employees and the Petroleum Authority, which is going through the following: What do we know? What are we lacking knowledge about? What do we need to know about what we lack knowledge about? That job should be completed by the summer. It is a comprehensive project in which the entire offshore environment participates. I can't guarantee the outcome of that analysis until it's done. I would like to express a very strong wish that they find out as much as possible, but we'll now wait for the result before we see what it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e325	There will be follow-up questions – first Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e328	I think this is in stark contrast to what was said in Dagbladet.no. There it is referred to the meeting with ConocoPhillips. It says: ‘However, the ace strongly contests the fact that the hospital receives ‘high-quality information’, as the State Council of Bjarne Håkon Hanssen stated in the ordinary Question Time of Storting.’ So here, there's clearly two views of this. But the background for this, which is also stated in Dagbladet.no, is that this affects oil workers in that they may lose their pension rights and they may lose private insurance. It also says about a lot of revelations that have happened over time – things that have happened before, and things that are happening today. It is quite obvious that there is a need for a review to give these workers the rights they actually have. Then my question is: will the Council of State launch such a review, also based on the wishes of the same medical environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e342	I think I know quite well what that environment means now, because I've had a meeting with them, already last Monday. What is the main point when we sit and discuss this with the professional medical departments, the companies, the Petroleum Control, STAMI, etc., i.e. the entire occupational medical environment in Norway, is that the information that is available, it is available. It hasn't been quite good, but now it's all right. You get it out, for example. ConocoPhillips has. The problem is not that. The problem is that there are some things that are not documented, that we do not know, and things that were not taken care of that were documented at the time the exposure occurred, 35 years ago. We need more knowledge about that, more research on it. We have to try to recreate those environments, so that we can look at how they will work on people, so that we can help those who were injured at that time to get a professional compensation today. We need research and knowledge, not research. Because it's not secrecy that's the problem, there's a lack of knowledge that's the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e350	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e353	I have to say it's striking if it's the way the researchers say one thing to the government council and something else to the media. If something is certain, it is at least that those who have worked in the oil industry and who work there are entitled to both respect and decent treatment when, after several years of effort, they report serious health damage as a result of chemical exposure. This has been documented, inter alia: in Dagbladet.no what the researchers say, both at Haukeland and in Telemark. They say there's not enough documentation, etc. My question to the Council of State is: does he think that the reality description from the heads of occupational health services suggests that former oil workers today have legal certainty and a good quality assessment of their alleged occupational injuries? Or what will he do to improve that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e362	I have not disputed at all that there is every reason to do a better job with the oil workers who believe that they have occupational injuries, among other things. chemical exposure in the pioneer days in the North Sea. But what I'm busy discussing is, what's the reason they're not getting good enough help? Is the reason the oil companies hold back information? Or is it that we don't have that knowledge? Because that tells a lot about what to do. Are we going to dig and examine the oil companies, or are we going to have to research and develop new knowledge? The analysis of the decision is essential, and my decision is at least that what we now need to spend money and resources on is not to scrutinize in secret, but to research to get the knowledge we need to help the oil workers who both deserve and need better help than Health-Norway does to give them today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e367	There are serious claims that are made in Dagbladet.no. It also came up in the Questionnaire on 31 January. For people who are involved and who have suffered or are afraid to suffer occupational harm, e.g.: related to chemicals in oil installations, it is important that they experience that the authorities actually play with them and are supporters of transparency and transparency of what has happened. It's not about research, but it's about getting transparency about what's actually happened, and a basis of experience based on it. Does the Council of State consider that the management of the companies in this case is satisfactory? And will he help bring all relevant information to the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e372	There it's also important for me to be precise. The company that has mainly been in the wind, which has been the biggest case, and which has been a lot of writing about, among other things. in Dagbladet.no, is ConocoPhillips. The reality description there is that you have not been satisfied with the way ConocoPhillips has opened up their documents, their archives, but that you are now satisfied – now you get available information. What Tor B. Aasen and Anne Kristin Møller Fell, from Haukeland and Telemark respectively, said to me at that meeting on Monday – I have written it with them, so that I should not be in danger of misrepresenting them – is that they now, after the meeting that was in December, have a clear impression and confidence that they will get out available information. So it's not an attempt to put words in their mouths, but those are words they've said to me and said that I can tell on in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e377	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e380	The councils will have a little bit of time. We have heard that with new foreign law it is difficult, with great internal disagreement and other things. But we agree on one area, most of them in the Chamber, namely the area of labour force immigration. Because it's important to maintain the well-being of our country that we bring in labour when we're in an economy of such great growth. UDI says that the average duration of treatment for labour immigration has decreased. But it's actually a little bit easy dealing with numbers, because you give priority to the simple issues, while the queue actually increases and the length of the difficult issues also increases a lot. Large Norwegian companies are known to need skills — special skills. When I talk to the employees of Opera Software, who are proud to be a Norwegian technology company, and who order skills from e.g. China and India, they say, it's not as easy to get great professionals to sit in China or India for six months and wait during the treatment period in the UDI. My question to the Council of State is whether the Council of State is satisfied that the queue should be so long. Is it satisfied that the geographical areas which primarily provide highly skilled staff to us will increase the waiting time until twice as much as they will have to deal with matters? The Council of State has today said that he is taking great steps to develop and improve welfare systems. It is also a very important step to develop and improve our welfare state that we get to do something about this. Another problem is that the company does not feel that they are getting any information about how long this takes, while their skilled professionals are sitting and waiting. Are the Councils satisfied with this development?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e391	I think I'm going to be very clear that as long as it's waiting, and if it's true that someone has to wait as long as it asks the questioner now adds up, then I'm not satisfied. I will not be satisfied until the waiting times are as short as it is possible to get them at all. There is no doubt that we now have a challenge in the UDI in terms of processing times. This applies in part to labour immigration, even if it is where it works absolutely best, but it also applies to asylum applications, to family reunification cases and to the whole of the UDI. This is due to two things – firstly, that we are now ensuring the quality of the work in the UDI as a result of the conclusions of the Graver Commission report on the study of the UDI, secondly, a clear increase, a growth, in the number of cases. Therefore, we are now working intensively to look at the situation in the UDI and to see if there is a need for exceptional measures against the UDI relatively quickly. But then I would like to say in addition: in my letter of assignment, UDI has been given a very clear indication that labour immigration issues should be given priority. They must be taken first. It might have been interesting to have a dialogue with the company that the questioner refers to, because we have made an arrangement with some major players – I think it was the previous government that made it, and I have continued it, because it is a good arrangement – and that arrangement is based on the fact that some companies of a certain size and are known for having order in the care of the patients can obtain a pre-authorised work permit. Then it's just to fill in the name and send in the paper, and then it's okay. It might have been interesting to see if it could not be relevant that such a technology company came under that scheme. They may not be aware that it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e400	I thank you for that answer, but since we have seen that the Minister of Industry has only contributed water, I thought maybe I should follow up with a question to the Minister of Industry. This leads to a number of Norwegian companies actually having problems with accessing professionals. I mentioned Opera Software as such a company, but the Maritime Forum, for example, which is a stakeholder organisation for offshore companies in the Stavanger area, says that these are very time-consuming processes, they go slower and slower, they're unpredictable, it's impossible to plan, and it makes it really hard to hold on to the professionals that you've finally got on the big world market of competence. My question to the Minister of Industry is whether the Minister of Industry is satisfied, or whether the Minister of Industry might be able to communicate in ways other than the supply of water to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, in order to create cooperation structures that ensure Norwegian business life the labour they need to develop the industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e409	As the representative points out, this is also important for business, and therefore it is important to stick with the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. The active substances are mostly with him. The best example we can give in relation to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion is perhaps that there is extensive cooperation in shipping, for example. between Norway and India, where Norwegian companies contribute to enhancing the competence of India within pre-authorised systems so that we can classify seafarers working on Norwegian boats, recruited in India and trained in India, in cooperation with Norwegian companies over there. There is one good example of the Minister of Labour and Inclusion – that we are putting in place measures to provide employment for foreign labour in Norway and can create systems to recognise education systems abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e416	There will be follow-up questions – first Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e420	The question goes to Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. Enterprises in need of special competence are usually enterprises in which tenders are offered in hard competition, etc. I received an e-mail from a company in Lofoten that had applied to UDI to get a specialist worker from the Philippines to come. It was hard. They had waited four months, and they called here to try to get help with it. They had contacted the UDI and explained the situation, that they had delivery problems because they lacked professional competence. The answer from UDI was that they just had to wait. Of course, this is just one of several examples that do not cover the need for professional competence. My question is, what will the Council of State do to advance the processing of such applications?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e429	The main answer is the answer I gave to the representative Trine Skei Grande. I just build on it and say that what is important to remember is that there are two types of work immigration. We have the type of labour immigration that comes within the EEA, where one has simplified rules of procedure, and where things go relatively quickly. It's about days, at worst weeks, but not months. And then we have the labour immigration that the asker is now busy with, labour immigration from outside the EEA, that goes to trade union workers. It was in 2006 about 1700 who came here and got a work permit on that basis. The answer to what is asked is that what UDI obviously needs to do to reduce the processing time is more resources to be able to deal with that type of issue more quickly. We have now asked the UDI to give priority to labour immigration, which must come first in line. I think Svendsen agrees with that. In addition, we are now doing a job as a result of the growth in the number of cases to see if there is a need to strengthen UDI beyond what is in the 2007 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e436	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e439	I would like to thank the Council of State for thinking that the previous government did something reasonable. It's a little contradictory to a previous answer on the exact same topic, where it was said that we didn't do anything. So we've done something. My analysis of the problem of labour immigration is that we are not missing anything in the legislation, except in a few small areas, where there are proposals from the Right in the UK. But the main question is whether we can get employers and employees to meet in this world, and whether the public has a role to play in it. And then our prayer is to the Council of State: there is no need for a new notice of labour immigration. What is needed is a new activity by the Government in a meeting between an employee and an employer outside. This is to simplify practice, for example. by extending the system established by the previous government, with the prioritisation of employers, so that a person can be admitted before going through the system itself. And that's for example. to start Norwegian training abroad targeted at areas and countries from which it may be interesting to pick up workers. All of this we proposed a strategy for in our alternative budget. I hope the council does, not just come up with a message.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e446	Of course, the previous government did a lot in four years. Much was reasonable, but certainly not everything. That's why I have to nuance a little bit of the description of the policy of the previous government. But what Solberg's representative is now dealing with is very interesting. I fully agree with Solberg that the moment of truth is in the meeting between the company and the employee concerned. Today, the reality of Norwegian policy is that this is a matter in which we leave 100 pst. to Norwegian enterprises to find the worker, to establish the contact and to help him obtain a work permit in Norway. We can simplify the work permit, and that's what we're concerned about. But my question, which I want to discuss in a big message about immigration, and which I think we need to think a little bit about, is whether the state – the EEAS and the Norwegian authorities – should participate more actively in the world in order to split businesses – Norwegian businesses – and workers, and whether we should have an active role in those issues. We don't have a policy there, you didn't have a policy there, and the question is now whether we should develop such a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e455	President! I have an answer to him: he can do it without a big message--
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e460	The President cannot allow that. Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e465	It is important to facilitate the necessary labour migration, but it is at least equally important to ensure that those who have already migrated to Norway have decent pay and working conditions. In recent years, several measures have been taken to prevent illtreatment of foreign workers. In particular, it has been important to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate with more jobs and better regulation. The Christian People's Party believes that further measures against social dumping are important. In our opinion, trustees should quickly be given access to the pay and employment conditions offered at the time of the hiring of foreign labour in areas where the minimum wage applies after the adoption of a public service decision. How does the Council of State consider such a proposal? And when could it possibly be introduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e470	I sent a proposal for such a prescription to consult just before Christmas. So the proposal is now being consulted, where we propose, in the form of regulations, that trustees be granted the right of access to pay and working conditions in jobs covered by a public tariff agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e475	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e478	First, I get to thank the Council of State for being sympathetically non-socially democratic – in my language, and it's just meant to be positive – when the Council of State in reply to the representative Trine Skei Grande said that maybe you should look at the company Opera Software, and here I get to my point. We have a quota for trade union workers of 5,000. I think last year we took in approx. 1800 to 1900 of that quota. It could be a point for the Council of State, which is creative and goes to Canada to see what you can learn, that you could go through such arrangements to simply plan down all the unnecessary doorsteps that are there, to make sure that the system works, and so let such a ratio as we actually have be a shining example of one – I kept saying – driving ‘politics by walking around’ and not allowing bureaucracy to drive ‘walking around’ almost independently. My question to the Council of State is: is the Council of State willing to look at this quota system, so that we can take in the people we obviously need, and as I do with my migrations, for example. in professional and research environments does it find it difficult to obtain?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e488	Yes, but I need to say that our problem is not the quota system. The quota is 5,000, but it's not that when it comes to 5,000, it's a stop. When it comes to 5,000, the labour market authorities have to assess the situation in the labour market before saying that we can go further. So it's not a ceiling of up to 5,000, it's just that one announces an activity from the labour authorities when we get to 5,000. But our problem is that we had a quota of 5,000 last year as well, and it came to 1,700. There are many people who believe that if we just say yes in Norway, maybe we need some engineers from India, we're being cleaned up by engineers from India. Our problem is that they do not come to Norway. That is why it is a challenge to raise the issue of labour immigration, raise the issue of Norway needs to take a much more offensive attitude as a nation to just cooperate with Norwegian business to look at how, for example, professionals from India, China and elsewhere around the world can imagine choosing Norway as a future workplace. That is what we are discussing in this big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e493	Since there is no ordinary Question Time today, the President intends to give access to two main questions, so that we get with everyone who has subscribed to the main questions. It's also because the president has reason to believe that the questions will go to the other two state councils that are present, but we'll see that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e496	Do it!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e501	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e504	In order to contribute to the spread of work in the Government, my question goes to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. A recent EU judgment states that the Danish practice of housing is contrary to Article 56 of the EC Treaty, which deals with the principle of free movement of capital. At the same time, the European Court of Justice considered that the obligation to live could be contrary to fundamental human rights, including: the right of residence. Although the Danish legislation is not a copy of the Norwegian legislation, the principle of the two legislations is the same, and they have the same objective. In addition, legal experts at the Norwegian Home Office believe that the practice of this law has been illegal since Norway entered the EEA Agreement. This must be evident to the Council of State that – and let me borrow the title of an American action film – ‘An Inconvenient Truth’. Nevertheless, according to some media, the Council of State says that he will continue to fight to maintain the obligation to live. I'm not going to dispute the involvement of the Council of State in Norwegian agriculture, but adding so much prestige to a case where the degrees seem to break internationally concluded agreements and declarations seem strange. In particular, it becomes strange when studies show that the housing obligation does not at all work according to the intentions of the Councils of State and of agricultural cooperatives. Studies carried out show that residential municipalities have as many empty houses as non-residential municipalities. Unfortunately, what turns out to be the case is that the requirement to live largely leads to the maturity of agricultural property and gradually becomes empty. So my question to the Minister of Agriculture and Food is this: Will the Council of State in the near future inform the Storting about the consequences for Norwegian legislation of the so-called Festersen judgment, and when can the Stortinget possibly expect the Government to promote the necessary legislative proposals, so that our legislation is in accordance with internationally agreed agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e513	The decision will, of course, be brought before the Court of Justice when we have carefully examined what is in that judgment of the European Court of Justice. But there is enough reason to make some comments to the representative Foster violence in relation to where the matter stands. It is obvious that there are differences in living conditions in Norway and Denmark, which means that there is no automatic link in the fact that what has happened here in Denmark is directly transferable to Norway. In addition, unlike the representative Fostervold, I believe that the housing obligation works. It keeps sitting in the car and driving around and looking at Norwegian communities, so one sees that we have actually succeeded in relation to the settlement in a completely different way from what one, for example. has been done on the other side of the limit. One important reason is that we have chosen to demand that a person want to develop farms in Norway in contrast to what others have done, and that one with it has more people living on the farms who want to use the farm as a starting point for economic development, not just as a leisure property. A key to the development of Norwegian communities in the future is to get people out in the countryside who want to drive business development, want to create jobs in the countryside and not just look at a place where they will spend a few weeks of the year. So I think there are a lot of good reasons why we in Norway are going to go on living, but then, of course, we are going to go through what has happened in relation to the obligation to live in Denmark, and come back with an assessment when we have done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e520	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but I feel as if you mistook a little what is the fact in the matter. The Council of State was aware whether this would apply in Norway or not, and strongly doubted it, because there is a difference. But it stands in stark contrast to the fact that the government sent two representatives to make contributions to that matter, and it can therefore be a little clarifying for the Council of State to explain why the Government had to send two representatives to make contributions to a matter that was not thought to have a major impact on Norwegian case law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e525	I have not said that the matter is not of interest to Norway. What I'm saying is that there is a difference between living in Denmark and Norway, and it is therefore important to find that one in relation to living in Norway has two types of housing, one personal and one impersonal, and that this is about the personal housing obligation, which has been up to the Court of Justice. So it's obvious that this is a reason not only for this without further stating that this is transferable to the Norwegian system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e530	There will be follow-up questions – first Lars Sponheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e533	I am surprised, when the debate following the Danish debate has come up, that the ministry has not guided the debate with more precise answers, because there was a similar judgment in the European Union some years ago that was applicable to Austria, and then one from the Norwegian authorities – sent out a letter stating how important it is – that the impersonal housing obligation is not affected, and that one should change the practice of imposing an impersonal housing obligation. It's supposed to be people on the farms. This should be specifically justified where there is a basis for imposing on owners, in addition, a personal dwelling obligation, which obviously touches on a number of fundamental issues. But it's a place of residence at all, an impersonal place of residence, that people live on the farms, which is crucial. It should not only be farmers, members of the peasantry, who can live in the countryside, but also other people contribute to light and warmth and reason in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e538	I can assure the representative Sponheim that the government is not working on proposals for farm membership as a criterion for housing in Norwegian villages. It is quite right, as the representative says, that it is actually a similar matter that is relevant in this context, and as the previous government, of which the representative Sponheim was part, assessed, and concluded that we could continue to live in Norway. What I'm saying is that we're going to look at what's now happening, in a serious and real way, and once we've gone through it, we're going to come up with the conclusions that it's natural to make, when we've looked at the legal aspect of the verdict that exists. But as I said, I mean – and I don't see it as Sponheim's representative saying the opposite – that we are talking here about a law in Norway that has had a significant impact on housing and district policy, and that is also how agricultural policy in Norway has been seen to this day.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e546	Øyvind Korsberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e549	It is a little strange that in 2007, there is a debate in the United Kingdom about the freedom to choose where to live. I find it strange that the Council of State chooses to support a scheme introduced in 1975, which may be contrary to human rights, and which, according to studies, does not work. When you know that 25 pst. Of the agricultural properties in Norway, i.e. 46 000 properties, are uninhabited, it would be thought that the Council of State was interested in changing a law that proved not to work. Will the Council of State take an initiative to evaluate the impact of the housing obligation, so that the Storting can obtain a case on the fundamental facts of a law that may be contrary to international law, leading to the depopulation of Building Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e556	The representative of Korsberg has a point in relation to what has been done in this field of research. I find that there is very little that has been done, and that a relatively large amount of reasoning is being used in relation to the small amount of research done by a limited number of people. Using some resources on more research and more knowledge about the consequences of the policy we have pursued in Norway in this area is not necessarily a stupid idea. That's of the things that are being evaluated by my side as well. In addition to that, it is probably my opinion that we have significant concrete examples to point out in Norwegian towns, which is the result of that we have made demands for housing when a person acquires a property. It's not an obligation to take over a property. There is an overall approach in this way that if you choose to acquire a property, there are also obligations related to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e563	Torbjørn Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e566	Today, the nation is discussing the obligation to live in a leadership position, including: up to the limit of living in agriculture of 20 target crops. The nation writes about this limit, which was raised by the previous government: ‘Skin’ – i.e. the limit of 20 objectives – ‘is neither to live nor to die of in large parts of the country’.’ [[...]] So this is what the nations write. This is fully in line with the Right's ownership and deregulation policies. Does not the Central Party and the Government also see that the philosophy of forcing people to live in the districts has failed well-documented, and that one should continue to deregulation, both to strengthen the ownership rights of farmers and to strengthen opportunities for growth and initial investment in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e580	When the representative Hansen uses the term ‘well-documented failure’, I think it might be necessary to learn a little in the landscape about what has happened in Norwegian towns compared to what has happened in similar rural communities in other countries. It is quite obvious that when you have an overall idea in Norway in relation to the fact that, on the one hand, the big community provides a framework of import protection, with budgetary transfers, with a law that facilitates industrial development in the countryside, and, at the same time, says that if you choose – for that is what it is about, it is about choosing to take over a farm in the countryside – you also have some obligations to contribute to nutrient development in the community. It's not about any obligation to do anything, but it's about a holistic approach that is such that if a person chooses to take over a property that is a starting point for feeding, a starting point for creating involvement in the countryside, then one should actually do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e585	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e588	The background of the obligation was and is life and activity on the curtains and thus also in the community – i.e. light in the houses. There is a rather flexible regulatory framework with authority for municipalities, which allows for local and reasonable adaptations, i.e. flexible arrangements. But we see that practice is very varied, ranging from a rigid regulatory approach to a sensible situational approach. It is an indisputable fact that the bustle on the curtains is one of the most important means of sustaining living settlements around the country. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Does the Council of State have any idea of a strategy for how the obligation should not develop into a clumsy coercion, but on the contrary as a smooth and good tool to ensure that in future there is also light in the houses around our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e595	I fully share the input of the representative Sørfonn about what is the point of this law, and why we are discussing these questions. It's just to create – I want to say not only light, but also activity, i.e. nutrient development in the countryside. That's what we're talking about, making people move out on the farms in the countryside that want to contribute something, want to create nutrition, want to contribute to the development of those areas. To look at the concrete arrangements of the dwelling, how it works differently from that goal, I have an open mind, because the whole point is to make sure that it contributes exactly to what the representative Sørfonn and I are saying here. So we're in that situation now that we're going to look at the rules as a result of what was the starting point of this whole questioning.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e602	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e605	I must disappoint the Minister of Industry, because my main question is also addressed to the Minister of Agriculture and Food. Agriculture is one of several industries in Norway that maintain a high rate of change. This change is obviously strongly opposed to the Central Party and the Government, and the Minister of Agriculture has clearly stated that every use that is being abolished is a personal defeat for the Council of State. There is little doubt that the Minister of Agriculture has a tough working day. Only within milk production are the defeats in line. The conversion into Norwegian agriculture is going twice as fast as in the EU, despite the fact that we have central party councils. In 2006, the switchover went so fast that 991 dairy farms disappeared. This is approx. three personal defeats every day for the Minister of Agriculture. The nation can also tell us that here evolution follows a very rough course. Anne Snellingen Bye in the SSB pronounced in the Nation on 26 January: ‘We do not see any trend breaks. Development is going on, in the same direction and at approximately the same speed». On the right, developments in Norwegian agriculture do not seem to be as debilitating as the Senterpartiet wants. Conversions take place in many industries, and for the right, it is important how the transition takes place, and not least what the industry will look like in the future. The government has taken some steps to prevent closures. One of them is to provide a little more subsidies, another is to undermine competition policy, a third is to strengthen structural policy, and a fourth is to introduce increased barriers to trade. Governments have launched the family as a future small holding. Common to these strategies is that they will not bring about significant changes in development. In recent times, we have heard that the government will also defend the obligation to live, even though this is not a significant effect in relation to abandoned use. I want a clarification from the Government on the attitude to change in agriculture. Is it still the case that the Council of State believes that each use is a personal failure, or has the Central Party also found that the conversion is both positive and necessary, and that we need a slightly more forward-looking perspective in the agricultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e628	I think if Hansen's representative had been around the country at some of the meetings that I'm at – there's a lot of them, there's a lot of commitment out there in the countryside in the agricultural policy, and it's nice – he'd hear a government council talking a lot about conversion. I am generally in favour of conversion also in agriculture. It's very good that it changes, it's very good that it thinks new, and it's very good that a lot of people are looking for new ways to do things better. What's the whole challenge here is that you have a balance between change and development. In other words, the conversion to liquidation is quite different from the conversion to development. We actually have formidable opportunities out in the countryside in relation to converting to development. Part of it is about what is now happening related to food diversity and getting new products from the individual farm. Partly it is about using the farm as a starting point for economic development related to bioenergy, related to green care and related to travel life. I was even in Germany on Green Week 14 days ago, where the focus was just on what we can do to link agriculture and travel more together. So I still have a great faith that we can use the farms in Norway as a hub as a starting point for activities in the countryside, and then it's important that we be able to balance the pace of conversion and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e637	Then I would like to ask the Council of State whether we can see that decommissioning will happen in the future, and that it is not a personal defeat for the Council of State that more use will be made in the future. What is also evident in milk production is that co-operatives are the form of future production. There are now 1760 joint ventures – a sharp increase from 1999, when there were 432 joint ventures. 25 pst. milk production is currently under the control of joint farms. Collaborations are forward-looking and, in my opinion, positive. That's about. 100 dairy cows, and it is an environmentally and animal welfare positive form of farming. It can be profitable for the farmers, and it provides better welfare opportunities for the farmers. But what happens when you start a joint venture is that several uses go out, and there's one use left. Then it's technically a defeat if you define success in relation to the number of uses. Does not the Council of State not see that a policy to improve the framework for co-operation can actually restore future-optimism and profitability in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e648	First to closures. It's going to be in itself an extension or a repetition of what I just said, for my whole point is that there's going to be a change in agriculture in the future. That doesn't mean that all those who were driving milk yesterday are going to drive milk tomorrow, to take an example. The whole point here is to be able to use this to further develop agriculture. That's where I feel that there's a sea between what Hansen's representative stands for, and what I stand for, in terms of having a pace of conversion that allows for this development. Because that's when we lose something along the way, if we just switch for liquidation. So to co-operation. It is little fun to read the statements of the representative from the meetings with, among other things. cooperative farmers, because they get the impression that the current government has done a great deal of work here, which has made it impossible to operate together in Norway. It was the previous government that made the changes that now apply to joint ventures. We haven't changed anything. So it's like a regime that the Hansen Party has set up, which now works in relation to the cooperatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e655	There will be follow-up questions – first Kåre Fostervold.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e658	I don't think the Council of State used the opportunity to tell how he wants to reverse developments in the milk sector, but he notices that things are said to go their way, and then we'll see how it goes. I want to follow up with a question about this with co-operation, because referring to what the previous government did is not exactly as forward-looking. What I'm asking is whether the Council of States is willing to go through the guidelines we have for co-operation in the milk sector, and whether he is in favour of opening up more participants in a joint venture, or increasing the overall share of co-operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e665	I see that in some of the debates that are going on, and perhaps also behind the question here, one assumes that the cooperatives are today unfairly treated or have a position other than milk production in Norway. It is turning the matter upside down. What is the matter is that if you have a given production of milk in Norway today, for example. 400,000 liters, it's treated evenly, no matter how many are behind that production. I can't see any justice in that if you have two farms next to each other, where one is a single use where husband and wife spend their work on working in that spring, and the other is a cooperative where there are two individuals working together in a spring, they must be treated differently in the form of grants and framework conditions. So the non-discrimination that's of use based on their size, I think is a fair system, and I don't see any reason to change it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e670	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e673	Milk production is still the best yield for gardening. It is still the case that approx. 60 pst. milk production takes place in gardens with a quota of less than 100000 litres, i.e. typical family use. Family use is an important leak in a varied agricultural structure, and with it it also becomes an important hub for sustaining the bustet, activity, life and well-being around the countryside. For most young people, not to say all, it is important to organize working time and arrange leisure time. It's not always easy to use a family farm. The means to achieve this are better welfare measures, disposal schemes and, last but not least, opportunities for flexible and practical cooperative arrangements. My question to the Council of State is therefore: How important did the Council of State feel it is to secure a future for family use? And if that's important, what will he do to ensure that young people also dare to invest in family life in the future, something that many actually want?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e682	I believe that the best means of getting young people to invest in a future in agriculture is predictability in terms of framework conditions, i.e. a belief that investing, reducing substantial financial resources in a farm, provides security in relation to expecting returns, that there is a job from which it is also possible to draw income in 10-20 years' time. It is also a little about framework conditions internationally – the WTO and the type of work done there. In addition, it is evident that general income trends are a key factor in bringing young people to grips with and bet within agriculture. That's exactly why last year we had an agricultural settlement that was offensive in relation to the agricultural settlements over the last few years. This means that it gives an incentive, not only in crowns, but also by showing that one actually wants to facilitate economic development for those who rate in agriculture, which it will be possible to achieve in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e689	Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e692	The Council of State manages a regulatory framework, including housing, which has in many ways resulted in a bit of a joke saying that the deadman is on the move to become the largest group of owners in Norwegian agriculture. The interests of the individual must give way to the community, it is called in the red-green language. But if you go down to the individual level, it actually means that the old couple who want to sell their small business, and who don't have successors, don't get a price that allows them to move into a normal apartment. That means that those who have to sell for different reasons may not be able to finance the liabilities they have incurred, or finance a new future. Does the Council of State feel it convenient to manage a reverse Robin Hood principle out in Building Norway, and does he believe that it is the way to build Building Norway? That's the one question. And: Will the Council of State launch a research project that might explain his claim that the housing obligation is working, actually does it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e707	First of all, those who operate agriculture in Norway today are in a political regime — a political regime in which import protection, budgetary transfers and other legislation are possible. In that legislation, there is also a presumption that in the case of a transfer of land, the value in use shall be the basis for the transfer. It is part of a holistic thinking in relation to what is needed to create an economy and at the same time create a room for food production in Norway. To imagine that a decouple part of this and say that OK, we're going to have a political regime around agricultural policy, we're going to facilitate agriculture on the individual farm, but when it comes to real estate transfer, when it comes to the 'capitalisation' of the values that are due to the political regime, and that as politicians, we shouldn't have any idea about it, is actually going to be quite special in relation to the globalization that must be on the basis if we're going to get something in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e714	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e717	I can stand behind and confirm what the Minister of Agriculture says, namely that the conversion and restructuring of milk production is going on. No policy changes have been made by the current government that contribute to its failure to do so. It has to happen. It's probably partly driven by non-agricultural issues, such as alternative labour, and driven by technology leaps that we know we're facing. The greatest change that has occurred is in that case the rhetoric of the Council of State, from the fact that every use that was so-called abandoned is a defeat, to the fact that he speaks hot for necessary conversion when traveling around the countryside. I think it is reassuring, because it is good for agriculture in the future. The important thing, as the Council of State says, is that those who free the labour force by, for example, shifting to more rational units of operation, it uses the labour force to develop other industries on its farms. It gives more robust settlements, and it still gives the same good settlement. Will the Council of State continue to have an open mind, so that the framework for co-operation and milk production can continue in that direction, as he had in the previous agricultural settlement, in the agricultural settlement that is now coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e728	I believe that a former Minister of Agriculture agrees that taking agricultural negotiations a few months in advance of the Stortinget is neither normal nor sensible, so I think we should let the agricultural negotiations come when they come. With regard to rhetoric and my attitude to this, I can assure the representative Sponheim that I have said the same thing in the time I have been doing this. I sincerely believe that the whole point here is the balance between conversion and development. I do not ignore the fact that the representative Sponheim and I have some different perceptions of what it means in practical policy in relation to, for example. change in concession terms and pressure on things to change quickly. I sincerely believe that by being able to have more pressure on development, it means more jobs out in the countryside in ten years' time than if you have a pace of change that is disproportionate to the possibilities of development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-07.ana.ud285e735	Thus, the oral questionnaire is over, and today's map is finished.
