ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e32	Debates on the prevention of criminal offences, especially among children and young people, are interesting to listen to. There are also interesting suggestions that are on the table. But I do realize that if you ask Norwegian youth what is the reason for over 95 pst. by the growing family, those under 18 years of age, are not targeted for criminal offences in Norway, I think we would get quite different answers from those asked by the proposers in their proposal. I was in Elverum high school today and met with the 700 students who go there, who actively prevent violence in their own school. To be quite honest, no one asked for such measures to be launched by the proposers. There was no one calling for rusting. They didn't ask for a permanent policeman either. Nor did they call for more mandatory schemes or stricter State directives on the organisation of prevention by municipalities. I have to say that I perceive that some of the main problem in the prevention debate – especially when we see the proposal from the Right who is on the table today – is that you just don't look at what has actually worked for many, many years in Norway and that contributes to over 95 pst. by the Norwegian youth, in fact, does not commit criminal offences. And many of the proposals that are on the table are being worked on, but I want to say with all due respect that much of this is actually on the side of what needs to be seen as the good primary prevention in Norway. There are maybe three elements we're confronted with when we meet youth. So there's a 13-year-old at Elverum, Håkon Gromstad, head of the Board of Students, who is starting to prevent crime and violence. He prints out equipment, materials, marks in the school environment, calls for local politicians and central politicians. But there are some other sizes these young people are calling for, and as I see the proposal reflecting very little on. Firstly, I believe that they are calling for a municipality and a community that is able to invest in the offers that young people are looking for. One of the most important prevention measures taken in recent years must, of course, be the Government’s great commitment to improving the local economy, so that it can afford to bet on what is not necessarily regulated and that comes as directives – as I understand the Right now asking for, among others. in the case of police councils. Investing in leisure activities, providing additional incentives to volunteer locally, is crucial. I kept saying – if we forget it, we can risk having to take many rests in the future. The other thing that I experience as very central to school students and those under 18 years of age is that they ask for school to be a place for everyone, where you can also be measured on other characteristics than the right-hand side has traditionally chosen to measure school students after – that you get a school where you actually get the opportunity to deal with the problems that student head of school Hakon Gromstad at Elverum has been using everyday life for the last few weeks. It's given to an arena relative to that. The third thing I want to point out is what I think is right and especially the Progress Party is failing in terms of prevention. If we were to follow the Progress Party and the Right in the liberalisation of the drug policy that they are proposing, and that both Russians and others are saying, there would be a massive increase in the crime of violence and profit-criminalism among the younger age groups, and then it would be expensive to pursue criminal policies in cities and towns. I would also mention that only in the state budget now does the Progress Party make significant cuts in relation to the issue of integrating our new countrymen. It also applies to young people. It's about young people's ability to be heard, not just at home, but in their own community. There are issues of important integration measures, what it will cost if we start tearing it up. Then these proposals that are now on the table are really just ripples in relation to the big, big prevention that has actually been reasonably put together. So I want to say in the end, when it comes to the issue of the police council, this government has established more than 50 police councils over the course of this year. I am very surprised that the Right has not taken hold of this earlier, if it is now so urgent and has been so important to get it in place. You've had four years to organize it. It costs very little, and it's easy to do it. Now we're on our way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e53	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e56	It is important to put the search light on what we can do with children and young people who are at risk of getting into a criminal runway. A targeted and holistic effort, especially towards children and young people, underlines that we red-green look seriously at this situation. This is why many different projects have been started in the last few years. The most important message we have been dealing with in Stortinget in the last related children and young people is St.meld. No 20 for 2005-2006. Here the government asked the government to set up a selection to review various measures for, among other things. prevention of crime among children and young people. I have some doubts as to whether the proposers actually think that the municipalities should have both the Police Council and the SLT, as question 1 is about whether we should establish guidelines for police councils, something the proposers think all the municipalities should have in 2008, and question 2 about compulsory SLT cooperation in all municipalities. One is also in the process of putting into place the measurement criteria for preventive work, including: police, something we discussed as late as December 3. I also found it very sad that some members of the Judicial Committee did not get along with the great and good work going on around the schools – the interaction between the police and the school. As a parent, I have experienced this in close proximity, and that's good. The establishment of mandatory conflict resolution provision is one of the tasks of the selection which was dropped after the treatment of St.meld. No 20, look at that. The same applies to the mentoring arrangement. Then we are saying that with the lifting of the damages limit and consent-based rusting in the schools. Raising the objective responsibility of parents for the harm caused by children will not be a good contribution to the fight against poverty. Today, parents have problems paying NOK 5000, and there are even more problems with such a large increase as is proposed here, up to NOK 20 000. I notice that the Minister of Justice wants to look at this amount. It is right that it has been quiet for a long time, yet I ask that it be carefully assessed, and that one also take care of parents for children who chose harm. When it comes to armaments, I have noticed that an international assessment of the benefits and disadvantages of testing drug use among school students and that this testing has no positive effect in preventing abuse. Then I agree entirely with the Minister of Justice, who points to several good actions that we already have today. Finally, I have a small heart sugar. I understand the urgency of doing something and making private suggestions for work that have already been set in motion. Of course, it's a full right to do so. But we're actually missing the whole thing when we're constantly looking at things piece by piece and division. That being said, I do not suspect anyone in this room that they are not busy with the theme that this private person has submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e75	As far as item 8 of the proposal is concerned, it has not been completely removed from the air, for this has been discussed by Stortinget before in connection with an interpellation I had. The Minister of Knowledge has also in part misled the Stortinget with a reply he gave to me about armaments, i.e. a consent-based arrangement. He answered about a forced form of it. There were questions about rasia. It's a very intrusive way of responding to students, but it's regulated, and it's access to. If we're going to go from more to less, that's a consent-based armament, it's significantly smaller. In fact, consent-based armaments are being carried out in some schools in the South Trøndelag today. What this proposal is about is to make sure that it is regulated clearly enough so that they can continue with what they have been doing for seven years. The municipalities to which they have travelled at conferences and study tours and heard how well they work in the pact with the students' wishes will have the opportunity to continue. Former State Council Djupedal has said in reply to me that this is a good measure that should be continued, but one leaves to a bureaucrat at the county to decide that the whole project should be stopped. So it's like the government doesn't think there's anything wrong with what's happening in the South-Tronde Team, but a bureaucrat at the County can stop the whole project from working, even if the government thinks it's positive. Then I think it's very passive that at least you don't make sure clearly to regulate that it's not allowed. Instead, they say it's positive what they're doing in the South Trøndelag, but you won't allow the school to continue because of one bureaucrat at the County. Otherwise, I think the post of the representative Chaudhry had some confusion. What was clear was that people with higher education were obviously better parents. To put it that way: Both the representative Chaudhry and I come from electoral districts with partly furnished homes – Asker, Bærum, Oslo west – but my experience is at least not that the level of education of parents has something to say about how good parents they are. It was a somewhat special attitude of the Socialist Left Party. So, finally, I fully agree with Mr Heggø that when you deal with drafts of representatives, it will be a little bit divided. When the council had its small closing round towards the Right and the Advance Party, he clearly saw away from the fact that in the case of a school where people learn to read and write, right in front. The right is in the front when it comes to identifying a child protection not just focusing on price. The right is also in the front to obtain a waiting list guarantee, preferably shorter than three months. We are not satisfied that children and adolescents with mental disorders have to wait up to three months or more. There has now been a very passive government, if I may say so carefully, but at least it is positive that everyone in this Chamber agrees that prevention is important. These proposals are not exhaustive, but it is gratifying to see that the Christian People's Party and the Left see the intention behind, and want to increase the pressure on a work that everyone agrees that it is important to implement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e88	Like the previous speaker, I noticed what the representative Chaudhry said, especially because there was a representative from SV who said that parents with low education cannot give their kids the security they deserve. It is with respect to report very shocking that SV makes a class distinction that way. What I also noticed is that most of the speakers here have noticed that children and young people have to feel safe. They must have good adult contact through parents, through teachers, and get the security they deserve. It is when that security fails that measures must be put in place to help them regain the security they need in order to achieve a good growth. This will be a clear prevention measure. Governments were involved in drug prevention, and the Progress Party wants to liberalize the alcohol law. Now the Progress Party has said that we want to liberalize, but we haven't said that we want to sell alcohol to people under 18. That's what this is all about. The Council of State was also concerned that the Progress Party wants to cut down on integration. It's completely wrong, and so does the Council of State. We want to take fewer immigrants and rather spend more money on each immigrant.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e97	It was with wonder that I heard the statements of the Council of State. It was rarely harping. This applies, therefore, to proposals for measures that are in full use in Norwegian schools today, which are in full use in some police districts, of which he here only endorsed any value. I also wonder about his angle of incidence, that he takes 95 pst. law-abiding young people as proof of what it makes sense to do in relation to active prevention. They're not on the wrong side of the line. They are probably not the closest ones to comment on what kind of measures are needed to possibly get into what should be the right path in that way. On the other hand, if you look at the recent report on juvenile delinquency in Oslo, you will see that in Oslo last year there were 1,632 young people under the age of 18 who committed 2,945 criminal acts. If it's not important to focus on them, I don't understand, because that's who we're going to be able to rock, that's who we're going to make arrangements for, that's who we're going to make sure that we complete their schooling, that's who we're going to make sure that things get out of work. It's those who need our attention. Talking to the 95 pst. which has not done anything wrong is not helping the group that absolutely needs follow-up. We visited Brundalen secondary school in Trondheim, and there they had a system of police contact. Both parties, both the police and the high school, could not praise that measure enough. It had lowered the threshold, you got in early, you could prevent, you had a good dialogue between school and the police, and you could get under the weather before it was built up to become a big problem. But I find that the Council of State here says that there are measures of zero value, and he also hassled with that measure. But I have a question for the Council of State. Although the Council of State does not agree with the concrete proposals that have been put forward here by the Right, at least we agree that we should prevent better, because that is what the Government has written in the 2008 state budget. Then it's a confession, at least in the police circles, that it's the prevention work that unfortunately has to be done when the time is short and people are lacking, and it's the work that gets the least continuity. I want to repeat the question I had to the Council of State in my first post: does the Council of State see that there is a possibility that seniors in the police can be deployed to strengthen this work and perhaps give it first priority, so that it is not just left-handed work? And if there are police officers now who are without a portfolio, could one of these actually be earmarked for this purpose?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e110	I didn't drive harelas. But I'm trying to explain that the prevention perspective that Right now is making it, in my opinion, is incredibly slow – when you think you can prevent further in Norway by just talking about what the police are actually going to do, and when you make the government's commitment to prevention almost as a powerful downgrade because you might have to do so and look at the police force out there. My small point, which I think is unusually important, is that prevention in Norway has been much wider than just by police, and fortunately for that. This is also one of the reasons why so many young people are not targeted for criminal offences in Norway. In my opinion, then, a very important question to ask is: what has made you successful? This also applies to previous governments. So it's going to apply across party politics. What makes you succeed in Norway, as opposed to many other countries? Well, in my opinion, it's obvious that it's because we haven't just chosen to bet on the police instruments – like the reactions that come later. It may be that Right Elisabeth Aspaker perceives this as harelas. But that's how we from the Government see it. We're not going to mess with that kind of thinking, because it's important that young people are given arenas, get a safe school, have a social context around them that no policeman will ever be able to give them. This does not mean that the police have no important role to play in prevention. But it's about expanding this perspective that I'm now really inviting the Right to get on the track, and especially at a time when the Right and Advance Party in opposition now spend a lot of time making suggestions that actually tear down what has been traditional good prevention: community investment, school investment. I mentioned integration in the context of the Progress Party. So this is an immediate cut that would apply from 1 January, and we wouldn't necessarily have so many fewer immigrants from 1 January, even though they would be there. This is what the Progress Party must address in terms of prevention: a significant cut in its alternative state budget would have dramatic consequences. When you reduce the price of alcoholic beverages, as you like, you have to assume that the young people who go to the grocery store today and buy even though they are only 12–13 years old will gain purchasing power and increase their consumption. It's where you have to dry out that prevention is actually something more, and it's much more obligating. This is serious local policy. That's why we're now starting and having a lot of commitment to the police wires. As I said in my post: here it comes now over 50 pieces. I am not now ready to answer questions about whether seniors should be included in the prevention measures, or what Aspaker is now asking about. There's a way the police districts sea and the police director and the police director organize their services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e121	The Socialist Left Party has always had a very strong commitment to public school. That's precisely because we know that there are differences in our society. In all societies, there are differences. We know that parents have different assumptions. A mother from Somalia who is illiterate, and Pernille Johansen, who is a lawyer, have different conditions to be able to follow their children in their education. To balance these differences, we believe that the school needs to do its job, and then we are preparing for this school. This school is to ensure that this child is given every opportunity, that there is a real free school, that there is free education at school, that the children receive an adapted education, so that when they finish school, they have equal opportunities to build a future for themselves. That is what I meant to say in my previous post, and I hope that it is so well elaborated in this post that the two posts from the Advancement Party and the Right have been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e126	I think the Council of State now gives the Right a somewhat narrower view of what prevention and effective measures are, after we have repeatedly praised each other for the unity of Norwegian policy. Not one of the budgets adopted here in this House has the Right cut in the measures under the Justice area that can be considered as preventive. I think we should stress that there is so much consensus about what works and does not work. That's why you see, for example. in the PISA survey, which municipalities are particularly effective in combating reading and writing difficulties among children and young people, which may be an important reason for falling outside. It's Oslo, it's Stavanger, and it's Bærum. Then I have to say that I believe that the focus on preventive work is somewhat equally distributed between the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party. The Progress Party even goes beyond the Government of some budgets. I'm not going to spend all my time on the Progress Party, but when it comes to ensuring good rehabilitation of prisoners in Norwegian prisons, I don't think you should try to construct some kind of disagreement about reality, about the crime scene or in the view of prevention that doesn't exist at all. What we should focus on, as this proposal doesn't necessarily say so much about, is that the bullying body is going up. So let's say a little bit about that. We have now seen that child protection offers focus solely on prices in some places. It doesn't contribute to better quality or to people falling out of it to a lesser extent. The promise of knowledge must be carried out – that is what we were behind. I think that the government parties in this debate have had two approaches. On the one hand, the representative Heggø says that almost everything is here, the government is already working on it, so you don't understand why there is any sense in proposing anything at all. Then the Council of State comes and says that about none of the things in the proposal is relevant, and assumes that this is completely blaming what prevention really is about. I think that the government parties will have to decide what this proposal is really about, and then I think that the budgetary positions should be read quite shortly, where the opposition – including the Progress Party – actually proposed a number of measures, preventive, targeted measures. It applies in the fields of justice, employment and social affairs, health and municipal affairs. Then I think maybe we can settle down before Christmas and agree that all parties in this room have a broad view of what prevention is, and then we can disagree about details and some tools. In fact, we're together for the most part, but it has to be allowed for a minority in this room to be impatient about what is said to be going on. You say that over and over again, but then we see that it's not going to be realized. Then, if you're a little benevolent, it's actually a pat on the shoulder of the Council of State saying that the Council of State is doing a lot of good, but we want him to work even faster and take it as a pouff in his back and not as anything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e137	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e141	It's about the police council. In June 2006, i.e. during this ageing period, Stortinget dealt with the police report. Then there was a broad consensus, from one side of the political spectrum to the other, that the Police Council was an important body to put in place that police and local authorities at a strategic level could work together to get good prevention locally. Also the government parties supported the initiative on police councils, not least after the police community had been a tabler for that idea for several years. In a meeting with the Crime Prevention Council on 27 April this year, the Council of State expressed strong support for the work of the Police Council and said it should be realised in as many municipalities as possible. Then it's almost at the limit of the strange thing to hear how the government council here today is distancing itself from both the government parties that have voted for here in the Chamber, and what he himself has spoken about in meetings just half a year ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e148	From my recollections of the nearer story, it came to pass that Storberget’s representative made a heartfelt appeal to a former Minister of Justice in areas where things were going well. Then you have two choices: to say that there are calls, or pretend that there is something else. I choose to interpret this that has now come, as a good call in a field. But that's not why I took the floor. I have spoken because, of course, the Council of State is quite right that most of the prevention in Norway is far from the police. But at a time when the Norwegian police are pressed for work and rest that eats up the tour as a certain man with the lie can take us others, I know that there is a real priority discussion in the police. Do you have to do this to the police officer in Follo saying: Put as many people as possible on wheels and wind up local county office on the grounds that you do not have any administrative posts? All right. Or there is a risk that in this priority debate, the part of the police work that is not about taking those stupid boys, but is about driving it off, lost, among other things. because there is not enough status or prestige around that part of the police work? There's not one answer given. But some of the answers are at least that this part of police work has public attention. I chose to interpret the draft representative in a previous post in that way. I'd like to use Follo Police District as an example. With the public justification given by the police chief, and the debate that is taking place in Eastfold and other parts of the district of Akershus, this is precisely the debate that is taking place. There is a debate about whether or not to lose close police attached to all the practical proposals. With what was behind, an opposition would simply not have done its job if it had not made the proposals here today. There can be no such tone in the staging room that a councillor teaches an opposition because it is opposition and that the opposition apologizes. I just want to say to colleagues in the opposition – through the president: turn your back and take it back again! We can't have the kind of top and bottom speech that the council had here instead. I know that if it had happened earlier in history, someone would have the sense and the ability to say from. So point 1: Yes, there is a good preventive work going on far away from the police. But point 2: It is certainly important that this also happens in the police at a time when the practical resources of the police are being pushed. Then those who have put their honor and honour into working on this must also have the handshake that I feel the Storting wants to give today, the minority through a proposal and the council of state through their own opinions, where I perceive that he agrees with that way of thinking. His good history from Elverum is well independent of party politics divisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e159	After hearing this, I understand that I have hit a sore point at the opposition – I really have to say that. In fact, discussing prevention has always been characterised by trends that everyone agrees and that there are harmless measures that are being discussed. However, one of the main lines of policy, including in Norway, is precisely to bet on the community, to help secure secure networks, especially with regard to young people. There we have to live with the fact that some of us are concerned about the developments that the Right Party and the Progress Party in particular have pointed to – clearly. The political debate seems to me to tolerate the opposition, and not to regard it as a top-down attitude. Now I've been sitting here for many hours today, and at the same time I have to say that some of the recordings that have come from the opposition don't seem very humiliating either. - Enough about that. As far as the Aspacer representative's suggestions and attempts at interpretations of how we approach the police council are concerned, I'm just getting more and more curious. So it's like we've now chosen to launch a major offensive to set up police councils. I said in my post that we have established over 50 police councils since I met KRAD in ours. I find it hard to see that there is no bet on the police council. I see that we're doing very well. Many are also in an establishment phase, so that when we reach the new year, we will have even more in place in 2008. I am very surprised that it is then presented as if we are not willing to bet on the police council, making it all a struggle for who has taken the initiative in many ways, and who is most eager for this, when we actually see that the police and the municipalities are doing well on this. We do not agree that it is the right way now to force Norwegian municipalities to take part in this, and to provide a central guide. I'd like to hear if there's an opinion that the opposition is all about. Where is the local maritime administration in that way? I think this is such a good measure that we will do this without such a leadership from the central team. This debate on prevention is serious and is important. If that's what's going on, we're going to have new repair costs. Therefore, I have seen reason to point out that when the opposition wants to introduce the prevention aspect, we need to take the whole aspect, including the measures that count. That's why I realize it hurts the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e174	André Oktay Dahl has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e177	I can assure the Council of State that when it comes to prevention, the Council of State has little inregulatory power. I wish the Council of State had actually commented on some of the things we said about, for example. youth psychiatry, child protection and school, but there's deafness. They talk about measures that work. Yes, the measures that work are a better school, it's a better psychiatry, it's a better child protection, and it's research into people's reading and writing problems. So you're here to point out that the opposition is going to get hurt. What we're hurt about is that this government, with NOK 130 billion more to distribution than in 2003, has actually not focused at all, in relation to the resources you have, in the three areas. This would have been a good prevention policy, and there would have been concrete measures, rather than making party-political statements here at the end of ulceration, for example. Right and Advance Party. We're not hurt at all, but hurt on behalf of those who don't get the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e184	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1475]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e192	The size shall then be added to the case No. 1-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e200	In the course of the debate, 36 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-16, by Mrs Søreide, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, 17 and 18, by Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left Amendment No. 19 from Anders Andundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party proposals No. 20-33, by Anders Anundsen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentiality and Immunities 34, by Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 35, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left, and proposal No. 36, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left Proposal No. 16, by the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, in the course of the debate, are converted into proposals for transmission, and reads as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government come back with its own case on the funding system for the institute sector, which takes better account of the overall and coordinated funding of the research institutes, their role vis-à-vis other institutions in the university and higher education sectors and the issue of equivalent conditions of competition in the institute sector.’;» The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 36, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the preparation by each municipality of a framework plan for the SFO with content and quality requirements.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e246	There is a vote on proposal No. 35, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to develop guidelines for the cultural school activities which ensure the professional and social profile of the offer.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e261	There is a vote on proposal No. 34, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to allocate the commitments for the construction of new student housing from 2008 to 2012 in order only to be granted to projects in the press areas.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e276	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20–33, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e373	There is a vote on proposal No. 19 from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to submit proposals for a financing scheme which does not discriminate against providers of air traffic controller training. Education to be eligible for public support shall be accredited through NOKUT at the level of a specialised school or higher.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e388	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 17 and 18, from the front, right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e412	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–15, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e3656	The President has understood that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will oppose the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e3670	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e3677	Then the vote was taken by 57 votes to 47.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e4533	The party of progress has announced that they will go against the battle. Item No. 281 under I.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e4951	During the debate, Elisabeth Aspaker put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to the Revised National Budget with an assessment of the expected size and funding of police attestations, including an assessment of whether the issue of such certificates is a task that can be performed by non-police trained personnel.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced support.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e5780	During the debate, Mr Horne presented three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e5803	I would recommend the Christian People's Party Group to vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e5810	I recommend that the Left vote for the three proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e5835	During the debate Morten Ørsal Johansen put forward eight proposals on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-12-13-2.ana.ud2086e5956	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
