ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e29	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes per lot and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e38	Let me first say that the matter we are dealing with now is important. It's all the more strange that we haven't come any further in terms of universal design. The proposal from Line Henriette Holten Heimdal, Laila Davøy, Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund and Jan Sahl merely points out that the political environment has not followed up its responsibilities. As indicated in the opinion, the Committee broadly agrees, in particular with regard to the principle that users should, as far as possible, be self-held, regardless of disability. The Committee points out that there has always been a broad political consensus that a strategy is needed to ensure the same opportunities for participation for people with disabilities. There is one of these issues in this case. That's right, I think, to clarify that this airport might be one of the best things we've done in Norway in terms of universal design. Still it's not 100 pst. adaptation due, inter alia, to the deficiency of: passenger bridges, as indicated. It's a little important, I think, to point out that the committee has been traveling – and just to draw a little comparison in relation to it: we visited a city in Japan called Toyota City, with 420,000 inhabitants. We got repatriation in parts of the center of the city, and there was – mostly – 100 pst. organisation for so-called managers. This was pointed out by some members of the Committee. The answer we then received from the people responsible in Toyota City was that this system had expired on date. They were about to remove the so-called leaders on the pavement, etc., because they were now going to switch to electronic management for, among other things. hypoaesthesia. It tells me that in Norway, who likes to think that we are so far ahead in terms of technological development and infrastructure, we may be a retard with ourselves. We should have, in every possible way, both the resources and the capacity to be in the front of the world in terms of universal adaptation. Then, of course, the discussion comes, and I take it for granted that the members of the Committee from the individual parties will explain more about their views, and about where we separate a little bit. And of course it's going on financially. The Progress Party simply wants to look for some carrots in terms of funding and co-financing. It rejects the rest of the committee, and I'm a little sorry about that. I can refer to other areas, for example: culture. In that area, the same batches are very concerned with a spice layer, where the state is with 40-60 pst., the county municipality is with a little bit and the municipality with a little bit. In the cultural field, therefore, the state makes funds available to be part of a fissile layer, but when it comes to facilitating disabled and universal design, you don't see it as a solution. The progressing party believes that we also need to try that type of solution, in order to get a step further when it comes to facilitating people with disabilities. This may not work 100 pst. Rather, it is worth an attempt – in the hope that we may then get the responsible builders, whether in the public or private sector, to invest far more in their costs of construction projects the additional costs of universal design that need to be incurred. If there's a carrot from the state in the case of a fissure layer, I think it'll actually give some results. I shall end by promoting the proposal where the Progress Party is co-sponsored.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e61	The representative Per Sandberg has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e64	The principle of universal design has long been a policy objective in all areas of society. It is important for society that everyone can participate, that we seek to facilitate this through common requirements for accessibility independent of function, and that one avoids special arrangements for people with disabilities. Unfortunately, the implementation of this principle, despite good goals for many years, has slowed down. There are many reasons why it is of a restrictive nature, such as that it is expensive, that it is complicated, that it is time-consuming, etc. But it's possible. As the committee leader, Sandberg, was involved, the transport committee has recently been on a committee tour in Japan. There was a lot that impressed there, both in terms of technology development and in terms of their work on intelligent transport systems and an efficient transport system, which also included, to a large extent, disabled people. The universal design principle must facilitate the provision of a transport service to be accessible to all, and it must be organised in such a way that users are, as far as possible, self-held irrespective of their functionality. This is also behind the representative proposal on the universal design of Moss Airport Rygge, which we are discussing today. It is good to focus on this issue in general, but especially in the light of the status of universally designed transport solutions in Norway and the possibilities we have to demand this through regulations and requirements. Moss Airport Rygge has a number of starting difficulties and repeated requests from, among others. The JRC and the NHF cooperated with disabled people’s organisations from the construction process in order to facilitate universally designed solutions. In the magazine Regional News from the NHF, the organisation describes cooperation as good and the final design of the airport itself as better than most other locations. However, a relationship with which they are very dissatisfied is the solution for boarding the aeroplanes. Instead of passenger bridges with direct access to the aeroplane, a lift has been selected for wheelchair users and others who have difficulty walking on stairs, lifting the entire wheelchair from the ground into the aeroplane. According to Moss Airport Rygge, this is because the airlines that have been contracted require short stays on the ground and rapid evacuation of the aircraft. You can't do this without using both exits in the plane, which seems to make the use of a passenger bridge impossible. This issue applies not only to Moss Airport Rygge, but also to other smaller airports. The Committee points out in its observations that such a solution is not entirely in line with the universal design principle, where there should be a minimum of special solutions for specific groups, and that it is unfortunate that the universal design principle has not been followed at Moss Airport Smoking and other aerodromes. The question then arises whether it is possible to impose or impose requirements on aerodromes on universally designed solutions. In a letter from the Ministry on the matter, it appears that there is little possibility of imposing universal design on the concessionaire and the construction of a passenger bridge without cost coverage, when this is not a requirement of the concession, nor does it result from legal requirements. ‘However, the authorities also have a responsibility to assess the extent to which individual operators in the market may be charged with investment in order to comply with this principle,’ it states. The members of the Committee on Transport of the Christian People's Party and the Left write in their comments on the matter that they 'presuppose that universal design is required in concession-dependent projects when a concession is granted'. The concession to Moss Airport Rygge was granted by the Government of Bondevik in 2004. It is tempting to say that these two parties should also have thought about this when they actually had the opportunity to add such a claim to the concession. It becomes too easy to focus on such an important case in retrospect in this way. Anyway, it's good that these parties see this for themselves and will do something about it. The Labour Party expects this to mean that we can work together to get universal design requirements into future concessions and current legislation, so that this is applied to all forms of transport where it is not possible to make such demands today, and looks forward to the announced anti-discrimination law also in relation to the principle of universal design.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e87	I would like to refer to the rapporteur's excellent review of the matter and say that the Right obviously also supports the principle of universal design and believes that it must come in as a natural part of both private and public development. And as both previous speakers pointed out, in Japan we saw this in a very successful way. Where we were impressed, they were really, as Per Sandberg said, dissatisfied with the design and would put in place new measures to lay another step ahead, to give disabled people the opportunity to participate in society in the same way as others. As far as Moss Airport is concerned, much has been done to facilitate disabled people. There is basically one main problem we are facing, and there is a lack of passenger bridge for boarding. As has been pointed out, this is a bit of a cross-cutting requirement in relation to what low-cost airlines expect from an aerodrome in order to get in quickly and quickly. It is a dilemma that I think we have to live for a while, as long as there is no legislation that is clear and clear in this area. However, when I take the floor, it is to say that when it has been focused on the slightly negative at Moss Airport, I would also like to point out that the daily newspaper had a review in its Saturday number on October 27th, comparing the three airports that have now become available in the eastern region, namely Gardermoen, Torp and Rygge. It is worth noting that the Avinor-Eide Airport, Gardermoen, had a dice throw of five when it was offered to disabled people. After having consulted with the disabled’s organisations, I think they would have set the dice somewhat lower when it came to the Gardermoen, but at least in this tabloid test in Dagbladet, which has compared all sorts of options at the airports – including facilities for disabled people – both Rygge and Torp get dice throw six. Maybe it's hard to deal with, because then they haven't thought about what's the main problem here: the boarding bridges, but in every other area, at least the newspaper says that the terminal is well equipped for disabled people. Then I want to say that we support the minority proposal that has been promoted. We believe it is positive that we are now getting a route offer from Rygge, and we hope, of course, that the law to which it is referred will come soon, so that we have clear demands – and guidelines – to provide people who are given a concession to operate airports and other businesses. It must come in as a natural and important part of the design, both in public and private buildings, that one facilitates universal design.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e104	Universal design means that society is organized for everyone, not just for most of us. When planning new buildings and infrastructures, there shall be one main solution available to all of us. We can't have one main solution that suits most people and that we have to supplement with a special solution for people with disabilities. Disabled people have the right to participate in society on equal terms with us. Too many meet today's obstacle rings in the form of poor organisation, physical obstacles and man-made barriers. This happens because until now we have not chosen solutions that are good for everyone: universally designed solutions. Director Bjørn-Inge Larsen of the Social and Health Directorate writes in Dagsavisen on 6 June 2007: ‘700000 Nordics with disabilities are currently excluded from important areas of society such as education, working life, transport, cultural activities because conditions have not been adequately addressed. This is difficult to call other than discrimination.’ These are strong words. Universal design and organisation requirements for all must count more than economic considerations and market requirements. Much is good with Moss Airport Rygge. But it's not universally designed in full. Instead of a passenger bridge with direct access to the aeroplane, a solution has been chosen whereby passengers are to be taken by lift from the second floor of the terminal building, down on the runway and so on into the aeroplane by stairs forward or rear. Wheelchair users and others who have difficulty walking on stairs are referred to a lift that lifts the entire wheelchair from the ground into the aeroplane. Many people experience this as a demeaning thing. In a letter from the Minister of Transport to the Stortinget dated 13 September, the Council of State states that the principle of universal design implies that users should, as far as possible, be self-held, regardless of their functionality. Governments acknowledge that as long as special solutions are needed, Moss Airport is not fully universally designed. The Council of State refers to the fact that that government did not impose such requirements on the concession granted in 2004. It is estimated by the Ministry that there is little possibility of imposing this on the concessionaire without expenditure coverage and that there is no legal requirement. Yes, it is true that when the concession was granted, universal design and construction of a passenger bridge were not required. But after the concession was granted to expand at Rygge Airport in 2004, the political focus on universal design has become even clearer, and we in the Christian People's Party are pleased about that. This must be met with concrete policy initiatives. We need to take a closer look and take concrete action. Instead of constantly looking back, we have to look forward. We must be glad that universal design is increasingly required in the transport sector, because that is only how we can achieve results. In the case of Moss Airport Back, we are facing a special situation. Therefore, as we see it, additional requirements must be imposed on the concession, so that we get a worthy boarding for the travellers, in line with the universal design principle. The Government, with the support of the Right and Advance Party, claims that the traffic base is likely to be too small to justify the cost of building the passenger bridge at Moss Airport Rygge. Let me underline an important point: political considerations regarding universal design and organisation requirements for all must count more than economic considerations and market requirements. The market cannot premise when and how fast we are to achieve the universal design objective. Such a special solution, chosen at Moss Airport Rygge, stigmatizes a group of travelers. We ask the Government to return to Stortinget with this, and hope that an agreement with Moss Airport Back is in place, which means that the State can take part of the costs of building passenger bridges, because the concession was granted without this requirement. The community is moving ahead, and we want to build universally in 2007-2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e126	I notice that the representative Holten Hemdal said in his post that additional requirements had to be imposed on Moss Airport. The problem is that the minority notes do not state ‘additional requirements’, it says that negotiations with Moss Airport should take place in order to possibly be able to do so. The majority have thus found that the concession has been granted and that what should have been the solution at Moss Airport has been denied the opportunity to do in this round. I feel that what this debate and this matter is primarily highlighting is the absence of a law requiring builders – builders of buildings that should be public-oriented, public-space builders or transport system builders. We do not have a law today that sets the necessary requirements. The current provisions of different laws do not work. There are opportunities to systematically avoid the assumption of universal design, and we know that it is all too often done. I note that the Progress Party will have carrots in the form of different public support schemes. Often, the Progress Party shows to the United States when it comes to pointing out how things can be done. Members of the Committee on Transport have also been shown to have been on a study trip. It has also been the members of the Labour and Social Committee. We've been to the United States, just to study universal design. In the United States, it works. They have had a law for 15 years, and the public space, the transport systems, was universally designed. We were amazed at the degree of availability and how well it worked. But I can tell the members of the Storting that there wasn't much government grant you gave in the United States. There was a strict law, with strict follow-up and full obligation for builders to cover costs. The ones we met, they said the carrots were also there, they were mainly in the form of satisfied users. And, they said, it was said in 1991, when the law was drafted, that this would be so expensive that it would end up beating a number of transport companies. But they said that it was possible to implement, and it is done. It's worked well. What you're registering is that, in addition to having a universally designed transport system, you've got a transport system that's accessible to far more people than you initially thought of: the disabled and the elderly. Anyone who for some reason considered it problematic to use public transport could now do so. You could roll the scooter into the bus, and you could roll the suitcase and the baby carriage in. It worked, and everyone was satisfied – so this is possible to implement. What we can see in this debate is that we can look forward to the adoption in a year's time of an anti-discrimination law that will put an end to the kind of failure that Moss Airport has been able to commit. Then I also think that this debate is healthy, because it addresses a critical searchlight on the arguments you have for not making universal design. Requirements to clear the aeroplanes – that is at other aerodromes as well. You choose to have a small marginal advantage and use it, rather than making an aerodrome available to the public. I hope that I will be registered as a negative competitive advantage of those who will now assess the use of that aerodrome.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e139	First, I want to commend the proposer for raising this important matter. The last time we debated universal organization, Lysaker station. Despite the fact that my intention was good, there was no way how much criticism I had to endure from the government parties. It's no good experience to look back at that debate. Much of the debate was used to look back in time instead of in the future. And in the case of the so-called "protective" or "peaceed" bridge, which was the reason why the railway station put Lysaker station in a turn, it is now partially torn down, but now let it lie. I have noticed that the majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left and the Central Party, point to Norway signing the new UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and look forward to the announced Anti-Discrimination Act also in relation to the rights of disabled persons as air passengers. Yeah, and then what? Why sit and wait? Why can't you be more proactive? We know that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities was signed by Norway and a number of other countries on 30 March 2007. As of September 2007, 102 States have signed the Convention and four have ratified it. The Convention also has an optional additional protocol on individual complaint procedures and investigation procedures. This has not yet been signed by Norway. 59 countries have signed the Additional Protocol and three countries have ratified it. The Government is working on an investigation into the possible consequences of Norwegian accession to the Protocol. Both Sweden and Finland have signed the additional protocol, but not Norway. I wonder why the government parties will not do anything active while investigating and waiting for the announced anti-discrimination law. Had the government parties been genuinely concerned with universal design, they had the opportunity to do something in this specific matter, namely to support the minority proposal of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. I find that they do not.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e154	It has been very remarkable about the new airport that is now open at Rygge, and about the universal design requirement. It's the defense that has the concession to operate a civil airport on Rygge, which is originally a military airstation. The defence received a concession from the Ministry of Transport on 19 November 2004. In 2004 the Christian People's Party, Right and Left were placed in government. So it was the parties that gave the concession in 2004, and then there was no universal design requirement in the concession. If the Christian People's Party had shown the same commitment to this matter in practice as the party now does in words, they should have seven to include the claim in the concession when he was given. They did not, and the Ministry of Civil Affairs has no authority today to impose on the developer a requirement for universal design, unfortunately. The fact that the developer has planned and built Airport on the basis of the concession he has received cannot be surprising to anyone. There was some confusion in the media around Moss Airport Smoking, because it was given the impression that a would build so-called nostrils at the airport, but that these would not be useful. But it has never been decided to build such bridges on the back, because the traffic base would be too little to defend such an investment, from the developer's point of view. When it comes to universal design when boarding aircraft, today’s legislation, through the law of planning and building, sets out clear requirements for the design of new buildings. The Rygge Airport terminal building meets these requirements. But the law we have today does not make any demands when it applies to boarding aircraft. The principle of universal design can also be met at major airports where the use of nasal bridges is natural. But universal design is difficult at smaller Airports, where one has to use stairs to get on the plane. It would not be reasonable to impose requirements on the use of rhino at all airports, both because of the disproportionate costs it would entail, and because companies in the low-cost segment – where the smaller private airports typically operate – often prefer stairs, as this allows faster evacuation of flights possible. I am sending a new regulation to listen during these days, subject to the aviation laws which prohibit the refusal of passengers with reduced mobility or disability to travel. In the context of the implementation of the new legislation, a quality standard shall also be developed to ensure that this is done in a dignified manner. I think that one has to stretch to the greatest possible degree of satisfaction, so that passengers with disabilities or reduced mobility can get a good travel experience even in cases where universal design is not possible per. today. Examples of this may be a satisfactory assistance of good quality and the use of appropriate technical means. Here it will be decisive with good dialogue between user organisations, airport operators and companies. We will probably get a new anti-discrimination law in Norway during 2009. In the context of the preparations for this Act, the Ministry of Transport has proposed that all new purchases in the transport sector should follow the principle of universal design. This means that we are facing extensive efforts to make public transport available to everyone in the years to come. Increased accessibility and universal design in the transport sector are important objectives of the Government. We are facing major challenges in this area, and I want to look ahead to the challenges that can be solved. I am pleased with the good cooperation we have with the user organisations for the disabled in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e171	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e175	I just want to try to clarify something, because I listened to the representative Sundsbø's posts instead. Meg familiar belongs to Sundsbø and the Council of State the same party, but to me there were two different signals coming. I agree with the Council when she says that the traffic base is not large enough to defend the extra costs of Moss Airport Smoking, while the representative Sundsbø almost rejected it and stated that it was only a strict law that could put air bridges in place. I also record that the Council of State says that if we were to do this at all airports, this would lead to disproportionate costs, which might change some airports' profits to deficits. My last question concerns the note from the Christian People's Party and the Left, who only want compensation for one airport. How will it turn out to be competitive?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e186	I think I can clear up the misinterpretation when it comes to the views of the representative Sundsbøs and the Council of State. I think he'll heal a few. We agree that we must have a new strong law that will ensure universal design. In such a law, of course, we must take care that in this country we have a long line of airports where there is relatively little traffic, not least on the regional network. We need to assess how to find good solutions to ensure the universal design of these airports, given their size. It's a matter that we have to come back to. But I totally agree with Sundsbø that we need an anti-discrimination law that will put things in place in another way, but it must be done in conjunction with the new airports to be built in the future. No's out of time – I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e193	The Council of State says in its statement that it is not appropriate to set such requirements to all aerodromes. But it's not about all airports. It's about one, Moss Airport Rygge. Moss Airport Smoking takes the aim of becoming the most efficient airport in Europe, so it's not about a small airport. It's a big airport that we want to be dominating. A majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, says: ‘The majority emphasise that the principle of universal design must avoid special arrangements for disabled persons but facilitate the use of the solutions by all. The majority consider it unfortunate that this principle has not been followed at Moss Airport Back and other airports.’ The Council of State says in its statement that the Ministry has no authority to impose such requirements, and then adds the word ‘sorry’. But the Council of State, we'll agree, won't we? My challenge is: Can we not try to make an agreement with Moss Airport Back, so that we can move forward and look forward, as the Council of State in its statement also states that she will?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e207	The President will take note of the fact that all speeches are to be made through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e210	My "sorry" was related to the concession given in 2004. If that concession had had a universal design requirement, I would have had the necessary travel cap to impose it. But I don't, and I'm sorry. When it comes to the proposal to give a special boost to Rygge, it goes without saying that, with the competition law that we are subject to, not least in the aviation sector, where ESA is very sensitive to the nature of the take-off arrangements we have, we would have serious problems, given that we unfortunately also have other airports that should have a better design. We can look at this every now and then, not least in connection with the preparation of new legislation. By giving way to an aerodrome, I think we would have problems, because other medium-sized airports too would have a claim to the equivalent.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e217	I've noticed that the government is pushing universal organization out in time, with the reason that you're waiting for investigations, and you're waiting for announced laws. Meanwhile, it's being built several places. My question is, what does this government do specifically to ensure the ongoing building processes with regard to universal organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e224	As I said in my speech, in connection with the preparation of the laws that are coming, the Ministry of Transport has argued that one of all new purchases within the transport sector should follow the principle of universal design. It's part of a lot of work that we see in this sector in the future. We are now working on this work in connection with new investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e229	It's good to hear that there are many wishes. Unfortunately, there won't be much universal design of desires. I also feel that the Council of State is very clear, she even says that there is no "sorry" law that allows us to ensure universal design. I record that the government in many other areas, perhaps especially in the cultural sector, is very concerned with cooperation and being funded in cooperation – public, private or in other ways – but here the government fraction writes that you don't want it. I thought the most important thing was to make sure that everyone should have equal opportunities. Does not the Council of State think that getting into grant and fund schemes would be a good solution to ensure that we get ahead with universal development?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e236	Universal design shall be part of the planning underpinning a comprehensive construction process, whether it relates to construction, aerodromes, commercial projects or whatever it may be. The basic idea – which we also have to take over in Norway, and which unfortunately we haven't been good enough, we just have to admit – is to facilitate the mobility of disabled people or people with other disabilities, because it's about helping us all in a good way. We have too little impact on us, and it's going to be part of all planning and construction activity. Then you will not need the type of fund the representative refers to. This should be part of the planning that is taking place, and the work is in progress in several sectors today — fortunately — when it comes to new construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e241	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 472]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e263	This is not a completely new issue to be addressed by the interpellation, and I think the Minister for Transport fully agrees with that. At the same time, I think many people feel a little lack of power over the fact that what has previously been revealed comes up again as a current issue, without the authorities seem to have effective sanctions to stop it. It harms the industry, as mentioned in the introductory part of the interpellation, in the sense that those who act in a law-abiding manner suffer because of those who do not act in a law-abiding manner. It also hurts the general sense of justice, in the sense that most people don't realize that people who run on the edge of the law, and walk over the law, can actually continue in the industry. In view of this, I have some challenges I would like to address with the Council of State. Firstly, in the case of the Professional Transport Act itself, it gives a rather general lead to the industry. So my first question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that the law is too general – that it should be tightened up, so that more clarity is given to the local authorities, and that therefore more stringent requirements are also imposed on them? The other thing is about tightening up the requirements for taxis. The industry itself has been concerned about this, for example: the requirement for the centres to store shunting data. Thus, the data with which the centres are located and those with whom the copyright holder is seated can be compared. And that can then be checked by the relevant authorities. Thirdly, will the Council of State look at stronger criteria for obtaining permission? For example, would it be an idea to limit time, as opposed to what is happening today? Should we set tax clearance requirements for those who are professionals in the industry? What will the Government do with a very important point, namely to ensure the flow of information between public agencies, so that when, for example, the equality authorities detect breaches of the equality law, and are this reported to the licensors? Today — at least according to what the government’s own department says — there is no opportunity to provide such information. It is also, in my opinion, a problem that in many cases the permission authorities will not withdraw any permission until a so-called enforceable judgment is given. Now it is stated in the law that there is a relevant crime that is needed in order to obtain permission. This doesn't seem to be followed much. Here you might be able to relate a little bit to what's happening in another sector, in terms of those who've been granted a gift grant. There is the sanctioning system and the flow of information in a completely different way. The question is also whether more demands should be placed on drivers, for example: compulsory rates on different aspects of the possession of a driving licence and what it implies by obligations and rights. Then there's another problem. The number of taxis that are now located in each county municipality needs to be tested. It is stated in the law that a need test is to be carried out. In this city, I think the need test has been put out a little bit of games for some periods, to say it carefully. In fact, it was such a period that it was said from the driving position in this city that if there were applicants for permission, there was still a need. And it's clear that if you apply such criteria, it can be a challenge to get some profitability in the industry. I would also like to challenge the Council of State whether she believes the sanctioning system is satisfactorily developed. As it is now, it is either to have permission or not to have permission. Should there be no possibility of withdrawing authorisation for a shorter period, possibly combining it with, for example: Day fines to improve the efficiency of the sanctioning system? I would also like to point out that the responsibility for the industry is partly shared. The Ministry and the Stortinget have the overall legislation, while it is up to the privilege authority, usually the county council, to draw up detailed legislation. I have to say that there is a lot of evidence that there is too little centrality in what is required in this industry, and what expectations you should have for the industry through today's legislation. At my discretion, there should be several minimum standards set in the legislation that everyone should follow, regardless of whether it is in Oslo or in another state. I also believe that it should have been assessed whether there should be a separate control body for the industry. In this way, one can more effectively pursue where one believes there is reason to consider how the rights are actually exercised. I am fully aware that all the power and authority in this area is not with the Minister of Transport, but I believe that this is the situation now, there are many opportunities for the Minister of Transport to ensure that we get an industry that is right in the sense that it has more confidence in the population, and that those who actually exercise the right in a way that is completely contrary to the general sense of law no longer have reason to do so. We know that the industry is concerned about itself. I would also like the working group set up between different departments to work quickly so that we can get concrete solutions on the table. I also believe that there is reason for the county authorities to go a little by themselves. When referring from Oslo, for example, to the fact that one is tired of the state's summer meal, it is a fact that the relevant authorities of the Municipality of Oslo could do a lot on the front, without that being done. In this context, there are a number of challenges for the Minister of Transport. I know the Minister of Transport as an offensive minister, and I hope she is also in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e297	Professional transport legislation regulates inter alia: the taxi industry, the road freight industry and the bus industry, by setting the requirements for authorisation to operate such transport. In addition, the ice-cream is tested, i.e. the privilege authority has determined the number of taxi licences in its area. It is the county councils and the municipality of Oslo that are the state of the state of the state. Conditions of professional competence, submission of a police record and financial guarantee requirements in relation to the number of vehicles used in the operation are in line with the different rights. According to information from the equation holder, it is discovered that about 340 taxi owners in Oslo have an average of less than 1 million. kr from taxation. 20 taxi owners have been reported to the police for violations of accounting laws, which could increase to over 300. Nearly 600 drivers have given up over 100 million. NOK too little in wages and salaries. It must also have been subject to social security fraud associated with the control of the taxi industry in Oslo. It must be stressed that those who have been guilty of tax offences must, of course, pay back what they have been exempt from tax, as well as pay criminal taxes. It will also apply to those who continue to run the business in contravention of tax and tax laws, if the media make it. In the case of issues relating to the withdrawal of rights, the right to withdraw the right is permitted under professional transport laws if the rightholder, etc. is guilty of a breach of the law and of the law that is applicable to the payment of taxes and taxes. It is, however, that one must have a clear basis for calling another permission. In the case of infringements of professional transport legislation, such as: the unlawful transfer of the right and breach of the running obligation would be relatively easy for the authorising authority to decide whether there are breaches of the law, which in turn may be the basis for the revocation of the right. Holders who show criminal behaviour in relation to tax and tax laws will also often show the same behaviour in relation to professional transport legislation. In this context, I refer you to the fact that the law enforcement authority in Oslo has found a self-contained basis for recalling the right of one of the defendants for the violation of accounting law. In the event of a breach of legislation administered and enforced by other powers of government, administrative practices in this area require the imposition of a enforceable judgment in order to revoke a right. There is a dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo on the possibility of clarifying the legislation in order to allow, where appropriate, the withdrawal of a right in the light of administrative decisions. However, I would like to stress that this is not an uncomplicated assessment. It is also important in this area to ensure legal certainty and avoid accidental action. It is a challenge that the universal liability of both the equality system and the social security regime to the rights regime. The licensing authority cannot call re-entry on an individual basis, based on the media review and general representations of the power of the board of directors of the law of the industry. It is not such as is produced in the media that the privilege authority may revoke the rights on the basis that the equality board or the social security board has established a breach of the law, as long as the obligation to participate per year. Today, individual disclosures of taxable persons are prevented from being passed on to others. Nor is it automatic that the right should always be revoked in the event of a breach of the current tax and tax legislation, whether large or small. Here, as elsewhere in the administration, there has to be an individual understanding in which one has to evaluate each individual response to the severity of the crime. In Oslo, the failure of the control system, by the active involvement of an accountant in the law enforcement process, has led to a whole range of cases outside the scope of a previous one. This leads to problems for the police and prosecution authorities to get these cases through the judiciary within reasonable time, based on the resources they have over them. The first issues will be raised in December. In the light of these Oslo cases, a multi-departmental effort has been undertaken to strengthen and coordinate efforts to combat crime in the taxi industry and similar transport operations with similar standards of good repute. Central to this work will increase the control of nutrition. Today it's among other things. a condition both for obtaining and for retaining the right to transport that the person concerned has not been penalised for serious offences, including business law. Today, as mentioned, the obligation to provide services prevents the continuous enforcement of these rules when it concerns matters which are not directly related to the exercise of rights under professional transport law. One must wait until there is a sentence for the crime. I would like to make limited exceptions to the obligations imposed on various public bodies, which currently prevent an effective and continuous follow-up to the existence of transport rights. This will include bodies such as tax authorities, social security authorities and e.g. the tax management authority, which administers the tax-free scheme for taxis. A final decision by these powers could then be the basis for the permission authority to revoke the permission. It will probably also be necessary to open the Privilege Authority itself to provide the information they may benefit from in their own case management. In other words, it is a reflection of the principle of compulsory participation, of an obligation to provide information. Of the many measures under assessment, I would like to mention whether stricter requirements should be imposed on tax collectors. Today, there has been an outlay from Adjustvesenet, delivered to the Ministry of Industry and Trade for assessment there. We further consider whether the obligation to report taximeter information automatically to the central banks and to the law enforcement authority should be imposed. The industry itself has, among other things: In the form of letters from the Taxi Federation and through the media, there is a great deal of criticism against the government that nothing is done, as they write, and that they themselves are powerless against this fraud. That's putting it on the top. Drose owners have a general right to control their added drivers, and where they are aware of critical circumstances, they must give clear notice that this is not accepted, or denounce the driver. Furthermore, at any time within the framework of their statutes, the central banks may impose stricter requirements on their associated creditors and ensure that they are aware of the offences they have committed are reported to law enforcement agencies or other supervisory authorities. I am in the work I do with several departments involved, busy working well with the industry. There is no doubt that we have a job to do, and that must also be done within a reasonable time to strengthen the powers of the Privileges to revoke privileges. But we don't have to cut everyone over a comb, and we have to remind each other in this work that the vast majority of taxi drivers are doing a good and honest job for society. We shall strengthen the regulatory framework so that we can intervene with those who break the legislation and should not be entitled to hold a running licence. But we should also help with the industry to restore the general confidence in an industry that is particularly important for most people, in urban and rural areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e333	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I must say, however, that I think there were some vague communications from the Council of State. What I fully agree with her is that here we should not cut everyone over a comb. But I think the biggest challenge now is to get a regulation that means that those who are honest in the industry, that is, the majority, feel that their need to say that they represent a ‘clean’ industry is also being met. The Councils of State were concerned with legal security. No permission should be waived without individual treatment, and it should not be based on media lookups. I fully agree with that. But I think that if you ask around, probably most people agree that it seems that the legal security of some people has gone well, so that even if it is demonstrated beyond doubt that you are driving on the edge of the law and the law of the county. What I think is positive is that the Council of State now said clearly that it would look at the obligation of professional secrecy between the various public authorities and that it would be easier to do so. It will mean a lot, for the fact is that waiting for a just judgment can take years. The situation in Oslo is such that the police officer in Oslo has clearly stated that he prefers not to have reports in 2008 on financial crime, because it does not actually have the capacity to investigate. It in itself is strong, but the more important it is that effective sanctions can be imposed while waiting for a final judgment, of course on the basis of criteria that also ensure legal certainty for the individual rights holder. I would like to know if the Council of State believes that the law itself provides clear enough criteria for the individual privilege authority. I should also like to know whether the Council of State agrees that stricter requirements must be imposed on the licensees and the drivers. I would also like to know if she agrees that there should be a more differentiated system of penalties. I realized that the Council of State is in favour of storing the data that the centres have, and that these can also be tested by other relevant authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e346	Regarding the question of whether the professional transport law is too general, I do not think that is the main problem. The main problem is how to enforce the law and how to establish a enforcement practice. That's one of the questions that we're obviously looking at. When it comes to tightening up the requirements for the central banks, I mean I answered it positively. I think we need to see to it that the central banks themselves can implement internal sanctions against drivers and those who break the law, for example. by blocking the system in the cars. It is based on a proposal that has come from the industry itself, the Norwegian Taxi Federation, and which I think we should look at more closely. The Taxi Association has made a deal that has been delivered to the Municipality of Oslo, with many interesting suggestions. We have not formally been given the distribution from the Municipality of Oslo, which is now working on reviewing it itself, but by hand I have registered some of the proposals, and I think there are many interesting suggestions, which we will look at in more detail. We have, as I said in my post, a common interest with the industry here, and we're forced to play along with the industry to come to life the obscenity we've now been exposed to. I also believe it is important to increase the risk of detection by carrying out more frequent and unexpected controls. Until the summer there have been few roadside checks on the taxi industry in order to comply with the Transport Act. It may appear that there is a part that violates professional transport laws by borrowing and leasing permits, by not having a running seat, or by having faults in the registration relationship so that they can obtain unjustified tax exemptions. Of course, it is important to make sure that ongoing matters are closed and followed up as quickly as possible. It also has a preventative effect that one sees that the judicial system works the way it should. It's a lot of action. I have a long list of possible actions that are now being assessed in the working group where the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Justice are united, and they have relatively short deadlines for their work, which are currently being done administratively before we, of course, go into that work politically. I have already had a meeting with Minister of Justice Storberget on the matter, and we both have a lot of attention on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e362	I am very pleased with the initiative that the interpellant has taken to highlight some of the issues that have arisen through both the interpellant's posts and the Council's posts, as attempts to respond to some of the challenges. A great many of those who work in this industry – the most, most of them – are busy having a clean and decent industry and want to get alive part of what we've seen revealed lately. I also record that the Council of State says that the centres have many sanctions options. Many of the individual taxi drivers and not least the people who represent the centres that at least we've been in contact with, feel that you don't have a code that allows you to exclude drivers who are engaged in illegal activities, and that there's a lot of work to do to get rid of these concessions, or the right to do so. This means that you can't get rid of the problem, because you feel that the public is very deft and very little offensive to get this out of the way. It's very frustrating, and they're very concerned that something has to be done about these challenges now. I think it's good to refer to some examples, so you can see a little bit of the extent of this. So there are five taxi drivers in Oslo who are charged for approx. 50 million. kr in the avoidance of taxes and duties. In total, as the Council of State was also involved, it might seem that the amount is actually approaching over 500 million. kr. Then there is no little problem anymore. It's a big problem that we have to grab hold of and get something done with. I also record that someone has been involved in liberalising the taxi industry and this area, but that does not mean that we are not going to have proper, good control measures and a good code to deal with. The Progress Party is very concerned that we now need to do something about the legislation and get to grips with the challenges we get from them in the industry that is busy cleaning up the situation. Of course, this applies to entry into the industry. There you have it so far that when you apply for a permit, you have to have a flawless reputation. The problem is that when you get a permit, it is not that dangerous. And then you're sure in a lot of ways. Then it's not that dangerous, because then you can just keep going. But when you're going to get a permit, it's important to have a flawless character. It is important that you also follow it and make sure that in retrospect you still have flawless conduct. In addition, we believe it is important to have clear criteria and requirements for how to operate, that there are clear and clear sanctions options, and, as I was a little concerned, that you should actually be able to take from a taxi owner or taxi driver who does not comply with the laws and regulations, the possibility of continuing to have the right. It is also important for proper control authorities and for public authorities to be able to have proper control. It's good that there's a lot of commitment here. But I think, frankly, it's a little special when you now register that it's so that representatives from all parties are concerned that we have to do something about this. When, in the context of the 2007 state budget, the Progress Party made a proposal – for already at that time it was known that we had major challenges – that the Stortinget should ask the Government in 2007 to present its own communication on the framework conditions of the taxi industry, it only received the support of the Progress Party. The proposal was defeated by all other parties in Stortinget. So it's a little special that you've now come to realize that this is a problem that we now want to do something about, and that we have to do something about. We think it's good. But unfortunately – you should have done that a long time ago, so maybe you could avoid what we've seen now has been allowed to happen. I think it's important that the Council of State takes care of this, that something happens, that it is going to be a move, and that we get a case back to the Stortinget, so that all those in the taxi industry who operate in a legal and tidy way – and that they are all, most of them – should be able to continue to do so, and that those who run unfairly get them out of their business.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e379	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has addressed a very important topic. The reputation of the entire taxi industry has suffered because of the cases in Oslo. In the Right's view, it is not the law that is the main problem, nor is there a lack of rules, but it is the unculture that has spread in Oslo's taxi industry. The newspaper's revelations have become familiar with tax fraud in many hundreds of millions of classes. This is primarily criminal behaviour that needs to be punished. This, of course, requires the police to continue to follow up the cases, which unfortunately are missing in Oslo. It's quite tragic that when so many things are revealed, the signal from the police officer in Oslo is: please don't report anything more now, because we don't have the resources to go about it. It's quite critical. There, Stortinget has absolutely something that it can contribute to. At least in my post office today was the last issue of the member's magazine Taxi. Some of those who have been taxed come forward and say, "Excuse Taxi-Norway." They also say that the first year of operation got a huge tax – money they didn't have. But the accountant they had great confidence in, said he could fix it. That was when they made the big mistake and said yes to the offer. Then the snowball started rolling. They also said that they paid between 5000 and 8 000 kroner below the table to this accountant to fix this. I support, of course, the measures to which the Council of State referred and with which it is working. But I would like to stress once again that this is not due to a lack of laws and regulations, but to a breach of laws and regulations. The important thing here is that there are changing attitudes in some taxi owners. The same issue of the Tax magazine also contains the action programme for the Norwegian Taxi Federation 2007-2009. It is written under the heading «The Challenges»: ‘Norwegian taxi industry appears in the media with a very negative reputation. Although these statements are related to individuals and individuals, an opinion of the industry and its practitioners is formed as unprofessional and, in part, criminal.» These are very strong words from one's own industry in its own press. In addition, under the heading «Contributions by individuals», the industry will appear to be professional and serious if the pursuit of the profession is in accordance with the laws and regulations that society has laid down for such activities, including good accounting practice. This is a tragic matter, because it affects an entire industry. As many people have experienced, there are also many serious practitioners in the taxi industry. A lot now suggests that the seriousness of the whole industry has begun to tell itself that one will end unculture, that one will restore the reputation of the industry. In short, this means that one must comply with Norwegian laws and regulations. It's the most important thing. That's why I'm positive that the rules and the special conditions that characterize the taxi industry are going through. But first of all, we need to address a moral appeal to that part of the industry that is unprofessional, to tighten up, to follow Norwegian laws and regulations – and at least hope that the police have the resources to straighten out the matters that have now been revealed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e403	It seems there is a large sale in the hall in this case that there is a need to clean up. It is also my impression when I have been to the national meeting in the Taxi Federation and later also at a meeting in the Taxi Nord, where a note of problems relates to the need for more tidy and cleaner relations, and that from the side of the board we have to take the main responsibility for it. That, of course, is true. However, taxi industry should also focus more strongly on some of the problems they themselves have to deal with over time, which makes this issue appear from time to time. But we, as politicians, also have to think about whether the supply system that the right-hand side of Norway has pushed forward works after the intention, or whether it leads to one being creative in several areas when it comes to getting the price down. It might be a good way to get a low offer that you have a little trick and fix in this area. Nor should one ignore the fact that a policy dominated by the Progress Party and the Right has some consequences for the specific practice of some industries when it comes to accounting and supply. What's important, however, is what's now happening in my state, Rogaland, where an intrusion of a set of permissions. A critical journalism has led one to reveal a great deal of abuse of the rights policy, and from the state side, an active intrusion of the rights has taken place. My challenge to the Syversen and also to Hoksrud when it comes to Oslo, especially to the Hoksrud and the Progress Party, which, at least in the past, has run this city, is: why has not the Progress Party actively entered in to do something about the taxi industry? This isn't the first time there's trouble in Oslo. There have been many difficulties in Oslo, but I haven't seen that the Progress Party has taken advantage of the possibilities they have under the policy that exists to do something active with the taxi industry. Instead, you point to the red-green government, which of course is now doing a lot of things. But one has not benefited from the possibility one had then put into position in Oslo for many years. What's happening in Rogaland now is that one uses the tools that you already have, and that the representative of Greece was in. I think what's happening from the government's side makes sense. Governments have mentioned a number of measures that I understand there is nothing bad about here. What was stated in the previous year's budget was that one wanted to look at the regulation of the taxi industry and to come up with measures, possibly also to the Stortinget to discuss this. It has an open for earlier, but if you do it, you get it back. My point is that we all have to be involved and take responsibility and make sure that our party takes responsibility locally if there is trouble in the taxi industry, such as that. is in Oslo. So this government, like she's started, is going to clean it up and do a job in relation to the taxi industry like other previous governments haven't done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e414	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for putting this serious issue on the agenda. This is a case that has been working on the left for a long time. It is also a matter which, of course, occupies the industry itself, on which the interpellant was involved. There are several taxi drivers who have asked me as a politician to help clean up. This, of course, also affects the vast majority who are innocent. Odd Einar Dørum and I had a meeting, among other things. with the Executive Director Wiggo Korsnes for some time. On the basis of this meeting, we both asked the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Transport in writing and asked them to act. The Minister of Transport then replied that she could assure the representative, i.e. me, that she would follow the matter closely. After our meeting with the industry, I understand that the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Transport have also had a meeting with the industry. I hear here today that the Minister for Transport has a number of measures to assess. But I think this is urgent. It's been going on long enough – too long. I can assure the interpellant that the Left is working intensively on this matter now. We will come back in a short time with concrete measures that can be implemented quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e425	First, I want to thank the interpellant, the Seven, for raising this matter. It's not the first time we're discussing this, but it's not less important for that reason. Until now, no one has really described what has actually happened. It is such that large parts of the taxi industry in Oslo are corrupt. It's not a small minority. We see the biggest organized tax fraud in Norway's history. In addition to economic crime, social security fraud, currency fraud, illicit driving and the distribution of drugs and the arms of criminal gangs have been identified. Then you can think about what's really going to be next. If this is not a relevant offence before the right is revoked, you can wonder what it might be. These are not individual cases, but organised crime involving 900 drivers, who have lost 500 million. kr from the community. What other industry can refer to this and continue as if it's all right? To make a comparison, for these 500 million. SEK could be financed for 1 000 sick places for one year, or given to each minimum pensioner NOK 4000. We are not talking about weak groups, but resourceful drivers and taxi owners who have been in the industry for years and who have cheated the community to get wealth and luxury at the expense of others. According to the media, many of these have purchased luxury villas in Pakistan by illegally exporting currency from Norway. We can't have it so that we have one legal system for immigrants with Pakistani background and one legal system for all of us. For most people in Oslo, it's totally incomprehensible that the authorities don't react faster – it's totally incomprehensible. 99 out of 100 people out in Oslo, if we asked them today, wouldn't have understood this. It's just people in this room who understand why we don't respond. Then we should listen a little bit more to what the reactions are out there. It is very important that society reacts strictly, and that it reacts quickly. The last thing we can't do, and now it's been years already. Then I would like to say to the Council of State: we do not need any more bureaucratic explanation as to why this is not possible. Getting up here and reading from a manuscript she's got in the department about all the difficulties in responding is not enough. The time for dialogue is over, now we need action, councillor. I hope you understand that the signals back from Stortinget now are that we need action, not more groups that are going to sit down and see what we can do. We need action, and we can do it now. So to the representative of Langeland, who says that there is competition that causes illegalities to happen: if you have so little confidence in the market – I might believe it about the next speaker – and you think that if you have competition in the market, it will almost legitimater illegalities, yes, then you can't do much about economic theory. It is the market that governs the market, and we who adopt the laws, so that these illegalities do not take place. If we don't have sufficient legislation, we're going to have to adopt it in this room. You can't stand in this room and say that we don't have a law when we in this room are the ones who pass the laws. Then you get to send some laws over here, and we'll adopt them by day, so that we can punish those who are behind this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e441	The President shall draw attention to the fact that all speeches shall be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e444	I think it has been a good debate in the sense that if the Minister of Transport were to be somewhat in doubt if she has the Storting in her back when she now undertakes her announced work to clarify matters in the industry, I think that doubt should be gone a long time ago. Let me just briefly comment on some of the posts. First to the representative of Greece, who said that the law and regulation are not the problem – it is the enforcement: Yes, I think that the law and the regulation also need to be substantially tightened up after we have seen this matter. I strongly recommend that the Council of State go into the report provided to the Municipality of Oslo by this working group, on how to look after a system that ensures both legal certainty, the ability to operate in a good way and the control aspect of the industry. Although it is not sent to the department, I'm sure someone in case can take care of it. It is worth noting that this working group was widely composed, with people from the Equation Office, from the industry itself, from the NHO, from the establishment that governs the rights in Oslo, etc. To the representative of Langeland, I just want to say that the Christian People's Party was among those who took the initiative to get a separate case related to this in the Municipality of Oslo, and the result of that is the working group report that is described. It is now up to the City Council in Oslo to bring the matter forward, and I hope that the representative Tybring-Gjedde will ensure that the City Council, which is composed of the Right and the Advance Party, actually gets the case forward, so that there can be effective sanctions in line with the possibilities that lie within today's legislation. It is paradoxical that in Oslo one permit has been revoked, while, as was pointed out, in Stavanger, Rogaland, much more has been withdrawn. There should be no reason why there are so different proportions in the two cities – it should have been the other way around in case, I think. So in the end, I just want to be as strong as I can ask the Minister of Transport not only to pry on this system, but to turn all the stones, so that we get a code and a law that helps us get a taxi industry that works, and that makes sure that all those who are honest and honest today feel that they too can be proud of their own business. Finally, I would just like to challenge the Council of States: when does she think that she can politically promote proposals for amendments to today's legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e457	I would like to thank the representative Syversen, who has seen this matter on the agenda and has made it quite clear to the Council of State that there is a mass increase behind the initiative that the Government is now taking on this matter, which is unbearable after receiving a report. But I have to remind those who say that we can only cut through, that it's not that easy when one is in position. That's what the government has in mind. Then you have to take the necessary rounds to make sure that what we do is correct in relation to the law, and that we take good care of those to whom the law is to apply. I am far along with the representative of Greece when he says that the main problem is a violation of the law, because that is of course what we are talking about – serious violations of a law that cannot be tolerated. But there are some obvious reasons why crime has been so widespread. All of this is about a lack of control, it is about a lack of communication due to the obligations of the public authorities, and it is about a lack of enforcement from the law enforcement authority. I'm now working on that. I can't give the representative Syversen any date for when I come back, but we have a lot of pressure on this matter now, also politically. It is not that only officials are working on this – both myself and my employees have had a lot of political meetings on this with both taxi industries and other implicated parties, so this matter is being promoted politically in good cooperation between several departments. Of course, we should come back to the Storting, so that the Storting is informed about the results we get, and the measures we are now taking.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e464	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e475	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e483	During the debate Karin S. Woldseth has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary changes to the regulation on the rights and use of coercion while staying in a child protection institution, in order to provide employees with a sufficient basis of trust to intervene with the necessary control measures and restrictions of freedom in relation to residents with specific behavioural, drug and violence challenges.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e505	In Case No: 2–6 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e513	During the debate Per Sandberg has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to initiate an agreement with Moss Airport Smoking in order to contribute to the construction of the airport in line with the universal design principle.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the recommendation of the Committee will be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e535	In Case No. 8 introduces no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-13-2.ana.ud879e612	This means that today's maps are ready.
