ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e43	Applications for welfare leave are submitted from the representative of Trine Skei Grande from 12 February to 19 February. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The Vara representative, Alvild Hedstein, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e61	Alvhild Hedstein is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e67	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Gunn Olsen and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Gunn Olsen and Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen are unanimously elected as presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e86	In the time of change, time frames can make the contrasts visible. When I served my military service in the Navy from 1979 to 1981, we experienced cold war. I remember two episodes that made special impressions. One was the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. The second was the increased tension resulting from the strikes at the Polish shipyards at the Baltic Sea. I remember that the Norwegian Navy on both occasions introduced intensified preparedness. Today, the Soviet Union is history. In the north, the new cooperation agenda is set within the scope of energy, fisheries, environment, climate, industry, research and development, travel, education, infrastructure, Arctic agriculture, culture, health and justice. We're facing a lot of possibilities. But we also face challenges that require a thoughtful combination of firmness, continuity and innovation. The path of Poland illustrates the transformation of Europe. Poland is a member of NATO and the EU and our EEA partner. Sons and daughters of yesterday's Polish yardworkers today do highly sought work in Norway. And NATO, which was created to ensure transatlantic security during the Cold War, is standing up in its main operation ever. It's not happening in Europe. It's happening in Afghanistan. The Soviet occupation of Afghanistan ceased in 1989, shortly before the Soviet Union itself became history. The loads were too big. But the burden on the Afghan people continued over the decades of civil war and suffering. On such grounds, Taliban took root. From here was ‘11. September’. For the first time, NATO declared that we had an Article 5 situation – that an attack on one ally was to be seen as an attack on everyone. In Afghanistan, not only NATO, but today the entire international community faces a major task that combines many of today's key challenges: poverty, weak state structure, weak national economy, extremist rebel groups, high crime – all of which threaten a proud and worthy people with a rich culture. The situation puts the people of Afghanistan at risk. But it also endangers the security of our societies. The situation is of direct concern to us. It is a paradox that conflicts that lie far from our own borders, such as Afghanistan, the Middle East, Sudan and Somalia, at the same time intervene more directly in our own societies than the tense situation of the Cold War has been over 40 years. The cold war is history, mainly because in the East and West – and not least in Washington – you chose to make the dialogue the main tool. Dialogue, based on firmness and strength, including military, constituted an engagement policy contributing to the opening up of historical disarmament agreements and democratic breakthroughs in Central and Eastern Europe. Yes, Europe has shown itself in many ways with Willy Brandt's eastern policy in the 1960s and the establishment of the KSSE and later the OSCE. Today, the world lacks a defining order. Limits are not impermeable, and the concept of deterrence does not share the same opinion. The resolution of conflicts requires a complex interaction of a number of instruments. It does not reach with excessive faith what military powers alone can accomplish. There is a need to look back on engagement policy to master this interaction. In this statement, I have chosen to focus on the challenges related to Afghanistan, the Middle East and the North. Here we are facing key challenges that at the same time affect how we focus our foreign policy on many new areas – such as energy and climate. With regard to the EEA and Norway's relationship with Europe, the debate will, later today, allow time for depression, so I am not going to go into it any more. Let me briefly stress here that we are now in a negotiation process to extend the EEA area as well. Negotiations have not been completed, but our aim is to reach political agreement on the outstanding issues as soon as possible. Norway shall contribute to the creation of a Europe of solidarity and security. I also refer to letters to the Prime Minister from the opposition leaders on the status of work on the Services Directive. The deadline for 22 February of this year for the submission of opinions on the Directive has been set. The government will sum up the hearing opinions and then return to the Storting with its assessment in an appropriate manner. As far as WTO negotiations are concerned, it is little new to report since our debate here in the Chamber just before Christmas, except for clear political signals of resuming negotiations. Norway supports this and the Government will keep in touch with the bodies of the Storting as negotiations develop. During my visit to Afghanistan in January, one of the country's ministers put it this way: Afghanistan is not a society that comes out of conflict. It is a society that has experienced disaster and where the conflicts have not yet ended. Today’s task is to provide Afghanistan with the opportunity for reconciliation, peace and development. The task is to build a country that is no longer an arena for terrorism, a country that is sending new ‘mass destruction weapons’ in the form of a gigantic heroin export, over long distances, into our own societies. For these reasons, Afghanistan is today our main military area and of the largest beneficiaries of Norwegian civil assistance – not only for Norway, but also for NATO, our own security alliance and our own allies and a wide range of partners, including our Nordic neighbours. Together, we are responsible for the success of this operation. ISAF now needs to further develop its strategy to meet new estimates within Afghanistan. At the same time, a much greater focus is required on preventing infiltration from Afghanistan-Pakistan border areas. The Pakistani Government must be given greater control over the groups operating from these border areas. This underlines that the conflict in Afghanistan, in addition to the international dimension, also has a regional side. It is important that all countries in the region are involved in a positive way — as we address in bilateral talks. But first of all, the Afghans themselves must ensure a good and balanced relationship with the countries of the region. Afghan leaders gave me clear notice when it came to the military side: the most important thing is not how many ISAF soldiers come to Afghanistan, but what the international community can do to train and equip its own forces. More extensive training is required for the regular Afghan army and the Afghan police force. The challenge posed by the Taliban and other resistance groups should, as far as possible, be met with a response that has an Afghan face. The faster Afghans themselves can be able to meet the challenges, the more effectively these groups can be combated. It is important that the Afghan population see that the central and regional authorities can provide them with security, law and order — yes, the framework for development. The image of the damaged Afghan girl Narouz, who is now being skillfully treated in Haukeland hospitals, can also be a picture of today’s Afghanistan, and a symbol of hope – yes, her name means ‘new day’. Without help she would not have survived. By our help she saves life. We are now launching a project to prevent such accidents and to strengthen the country's health system in this area. By the end of the month, Narouz and his father are back in the Faryab province. But then it's just through the help of the family and the village that she's going to live on her life. It is necessary for those who want Afghanistan to take on board the fact that the military approach cannot be the leader in meeting the country’s challenges. And let me stress: it's the military at all levels with responsibilities in the field that emphasizes this very perspective. This perspective was the basis of the Government’s decision to withdraw Norway from Operation Enduring Freedom — with its counter-terrorism mandate — instead of fully investing in the ISAF force with its mandate on security, stability and development in the country. Resistance is of little benefit if the population has no prospects for development, good governance, active human rights and the climate for reconciliation. The people must believe in and see a lasting change for the better. And equally important: what we contribute to – through military presence and through civil efforts, among other things. The efforts of non-governmental organisations must be able to carry on their own. If this does not work, the local population will easily turn against international forces and look at them – on us – as occupying and disturbing. NATO has military capabilities and capabilities to succeed in the military. Now we need to mobilise the knowledge to succeed in the reconstruction work. We have over 50 years of assistance experience to draw on. We know the importance of good coordination, of providing assistance in a way that matches local needs, that achieves local ownership, and of the importance of assisting in a way that the recipients have the capacity to handle. Hardly anywhere, we see more clearly that foreign and security policy is cross-sectoral. This is not a task for NATO alone. Therefore, Norway took the initiative to invite the UN, the EU, the World Bank and other leading institutions to participate in the discussions now during the last month’s Foreign Minister’s meeting in NATO. There is now much greater consensus than just a few months ago that different instruments need to be seen in the context, that a proper balance between civil and military instruments is necessary, and that civil efforts have not been large enough — and perhaps even more important — not efficient enough. The NATO summit in Riga confirmed that this is the right way forward, and the Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting in January and the Minister of Defence meeting in Seville last week pointed forward in the right direction. It is interesting – and pleasant – that the US Minister for Foreign Affairs at the NATO meeting in January called for a new strategy towards Afghanistan, with greater emphasis on the civil aspects of its efforts. This reflects the position taken by the Norwegian side, which has been reflected in previous debates in this room and in the bodies of the Storting, and in initiatives taken by Norway in NATO and the United Nations. The overall picture of international efforts in Afghanistan is thus different from that at the turn of the year. It's a pleasure. The government believes that properly structured international efforts can contribute to lasting and stable peace. Norway will step up civil assistance to Afghanistan to approximately 450 million. kr as the target for 2007, making the country the second largest beneficiary of Norwegian aid, after the Palestinian region. Militaryly, Norway today has about 550 women and men in challenging service in the country. We are proud of their efforts. A motivated and competent quota of soldiers and officers shows an act that has been thoughtful and well done. In addition, all Nordics working in the humanitarian organisations come with their humanitarian mandates that are not to be mixed with the military. Norway shall continue its military engagement. Our main focus will remain in the north. It's an important point that our units are building up good local knowledge to solve their mission. In addition, we have not imposed any restrictions on the use of the Norwegian quota in Mazar-i-Sharif as an input force. At the same time, it is essential that institutions in Kabul take root and develop their reach. Kabul is the capital and entrance gate. From 1 April of this year, Norwegian crews will take over the operations of Kabul’s international airport – the very lifeblood. The security challenge in Afghanistan is real. The estimates from the Taliban last summer and fall were sometimes dramatic. Military presence and vigilance are still required throughout the country. It must be expected that the Taliban and other rebel groups will remain active. The resistance from the Taliban will be able to be re-examined when winter is over. The 2006 offensive has not been admitted to be repeated, but ISAF is well prepared and well rusted. On 5 February of this year, Norway received a specific request from NATO commander-in-command to make additional military contributions in the form of Hercule transport aircraft, F-16 fighter aircraft or a Special Forces Department. The government has carefully assessed the enquiry based on what we are already contributing to, the ground situation, the goals that international societies want to pursue in terms of civil development, and our current available capacities. On this basis, we have come to meet NATO’s request by making a Special Forces Department available for the Kabul region, where ISAF has unmet needs. In other words, this contribution will be in addition to our contributions in the north and our future responsibility for the operation of the International Airport in Kabul. The Special Forces Contribution will be in line with NATO’s wishes, and will be important to defend and maintain the stability of the capital and thus to protect – in addition to the civilian population – both government, public institutions and the international community in their activities. Thus, it will also support the work Norway has done in Kabul militaryly, with the management responsibility for the operation of the airport, and civilly, with all the efforts I have shown. A Norwegian Special Forces Department in Kabul will thus contribute to ensuring and supporting the more comprehensive and balanced strategy that is now so important to develop. The department will be located in the Kabul region and not in any other part of the country, including in the south. In the context of NATO feedback, we will make it clear that Norway will not make further military contributions in 2007 beyond what is now known. The military contribution must be shaped in such a way as to provide a greater room for political processes. Reconciliation is such a central political process. We place the decisive emphasis on the reconciliation task facing the Afghan government. President Karzai and government members underline the need to create much stronger ties between democratically elected institutions in Kabul, primarily the President, and the more traditional power structures in rural areas. We will help to facilitate this work. In cooperation with the Afghan authorities, we will develop a comprehensive programme to promote longer-term recruitment to the public administration. The aim is to bring students from all over the country together, with particular emphasis on the most difficult provinces. Strengthening the position of women will be central. If we succeed in this work, we will both be able to stimulate stronger ties between Kabul and different parts of the country, and at the same time create an administration where women can participate fully in the long term. This project is part of a broader package for Norwegian capacity building and state building assistance. Norway will contribute to the prompt introduction of training by a separate Institute of Public Employees. At the same time, Norway is the first contributor to a project to strengthen the competence of local government. We are also embarking on work to assist Afghan energy authorities to contribute to the development of a framework for gas resources in the country. We also support the establishment of Afghan security forces. Norway now has nine police advisers and five lawyers in the country, and we are preparing for an increase in the number of advisers. In addition, the extensive efforts in areas in which we are already heavily involved, such as education and rural development, are continuing. The UN is too weak today to play a leading role in international coordination in Afghanistan. This we now want to improve, for example. by strengthening the UN operation UNAMA with a number of new posts in the humanitarian field, in particular in the provinces. Why do I go into all this in detail? This is because development in Afghanistan is of great importance in itself, because the perspectives are principled, and because the instruments have such a clear validity for other situations, for our foreign policy of the time, and not least for the ability of our own and our allies to assert ourselves in resolving our conflicts of time. The effort illustrates how we should assist globally in other countries as well. Good governance, human rights, reconciliation, security reform, building skills and capacity in a wide range of areas – such as education, health, employment, humanitarian efforts – are all necessary to assist fragile countries. For too long, there has been excessive belief in what military power can accomplish in our world. A heavy military focus can become self-enhancing by assessing solutions to new challenges too quickly from a military perspective. The disaster in Iraq is bearing witness to this. Gradually, there has to be a change. Here the UN must be central, not least by stressing that all military use of power must be included in the UN Charter, but also by using the UN as the coordinating body capable of drawing on the other dimensions – political solutions, humanitarian aid and reconstruction. Further work in the newly established Peace Building Commission will be of great importance here, and Norway will follow up actively. Afghanistan has characteristics that characterise other critical conflict areas, and the challenge is this: how do we meet countries with very weak state structures, societies where rebel groups base their activities on what they see as a struggle against what is called the Western World and Western values? We find that several of the conflicts in a vast region are nourishing each other and have negative ring-effects. There appears to be a continuous belt of related individual conflicts from Afghanistan, through the Middle East to the African Horn and the extensive humanitarian disaster in Darfur, Sudan. Yes, a line goes from Kabul to Khartoum. The broad Middle East region is characterised by such intertwined conflicts, increased tension along ethnic and religious divisions and rival regional majorities. It shows the need for a regional approach, coupled with a broad, inclusive political process. Those who are in favour of such political processes must receive our support. In such a light, the Government gives its support to the last Thursday agreement in Mecca to form a Palestinian assembly administration. For several months, the Government has actively supported President Abbas’ efforts to involve Hamas in a government cooperation reflecting basic standards of international cooperation and the principles established by the so-called Quartet – the recognition of agreements concluded, the waiving of violence and the recognition of the State of Israel. Hamas has committed itself, through the Mecca agreement, without reservation, to the agreements concluded with Israel by the PLO on behalf of the Palestinian people. The basis for these agreements, including the Oslo Agreements, is the Palestinian recognition of the State of Israel, the mutual recognition, and the choice of negotiations over violence in the liquidation of the Israeli occupation. The collection manager is not yet in place. It shall be established, final agreement shall be reached on the composition of the Government and the principles of Mecca must enter the Government Platform. But we want to send that signal that if this comes into place, it will open the way for normal political and economic relations with the Palestinian self-government authorities. It is our opinion that what President Abbas has now achieved is the best we can hope for. The alternative to the Palestinian collection is civil war, dissolution and new extremism on the Palestinian side. It destroys Palestinians. But it is also to be seen as a security threat to Israel and a blocking of the resumption of negotiations between Palestinians and Israelis. Now this fragile process needs support. Norway has the opportunity to contribute through its experience, networks and access to all parties. That's what we're doing and we're going to keep going. The government will give special homage to Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Jordan, Syria and the Arab League for their role in getting a collection government. This regional assembly to prevent total Palestinian dissolution and civil war demonstrates responsibility and willingness to address major political challenges in its own region. Now, the international community must build on what has been achieved and support it in order to relaunch a process and negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians that can address the so-called final status issues, which can ensure the establishment of a viable Palestinian State that can live side by side with Israel within internationally recognised and secure borders. At the same time, our demands for Israel are clear: as the strong party, there must be transparency for real negotiations. Unlawful settlements must cease. We distance ourselves from the separation wall, and we demand that Israel surrender confiscated funds from Palestinian sales and facilitate the possibility of border crossing. Each conflict in the world has its own character, its own particular origin and content. In the Middle East, conflicts are more closely linked than in the past – Israel-Palestine, Israel-Syria, Israel-Lebanon and the fragile political balance in Lebanon. Iran's growing role as a regional power and an actor is a dominant feature. Therefore, the perspective of a regional peace conference must be maintained. Parties must be involved and held responsible. We will build on the Norwegian-Spanish initiative last month, where we noted that 15 years have passed since the Middle East Conference in Madrid. The greatest danger in the Middle East is today in the situation in Iraq. The risk that the situation in the country triggers further conflict in neighbouring areas is significant. An Iraq collapsing could create a dangerous void and draw regional majorities into the situation in unpredictable ways. The solution must be found internally in Iraq. However, the actors in the region must be involved. Iraq can find it difficult to become more stable because Syria and Iran are becoming more isolated and more unstable. The specific areas of conflict I have now talked about have some important common denominators. Firstly, the importance of state structures — and the great source of instability when these are lacking. Secondly, the need to create dialogue both internally in the country and across borders, and the importance of pursuing an engagement policy that combines firmness with the ability and willingness to involve states and political, social and religious groups in political processes – and not to keep them on the outside. A third common denominator is that these conflicts concern us. They matter to our own security and well-being – not just because it involves us as fellow humans when we experience injustice and suffering with others, but because we need peace and security out there if we are to have it safe here at home. At the same time, it is a paradox that just terms such as ‘home’ and ‘far away’ are scarcely found in a global political perspective. Therefore, Norway’s role as a peace nation has such a clear place in our government platform. Our contribution to the prevention, mitigation and resolution of conflicts is strengthened. We can't engage in ability, but Norway has advantages and experience, and we've built up skills that we're ready to use. I value the public debate our peace exposure gives rise to. Much is new work, and we would like to welcome critical glances. We must be realistic and not have illusions. The challenges we face in the peace process are great. At the same time, foreign policy must have visions and ideals, seize the opportunities — and the ability to see them in a broader context — and, at the same time, become more capable of addressing them. The common denominator today -- the fourth one I want to mention -- is commitment. Isolation and boycott as a foreign policy instrument become less and less applicable. Conflicts cannot be isolated, they tend to spread – if we do not engage. Today, we have an image of increased contention and tensions between the so-called Western world and the Muslim world. There are extreme, polarising and destructive forces that get a lot of attention, but there are also other forces — and they are probably in majority — that build bridgeheads. We must support the bridge builders. States and groups, religious, national or political extremists, who use terror and tear down bridges, must meet with firmness. States have the right and the duty to defend themselves, but how we as states defend ourselves is crucial. Once again, it's about far more than military capability. Only by weakening the recruitment of extremist groups will we – as states – be able to win over time by deterring extremism from new recruits. Military instruments are necessary here, but can also be destructive if they take arbitrary lives, are perceived as invading, and help drive new people into the embrace of extremism. A political and economic strategy is also required. In addition to countries, political, social and religious groups are now important actors. We can't define them away. There is reason to be concerned that so many other agendas come in the shadow of the floodlights of terror. This applies to the disarmament work, which must be seen in the context of non-proliferation work. This concerns the work of democracy, which is about supporting civil society, broad participation and the building of democratic institutions. This concerns the work on human rights, which must be pursued – our protection of human dignity, the fight against the death penalty, the fight for children’s and women’s rights – in our active involvement in the UN, the Council of Europe, the OSCE and other multilateral institutions. Global development requires more attention to such dimensions — not less. In two months' time, NATO Foreign Ministers will meet here in Oslo. It's been the first time since 1992. In addition to Afghanistan, Kosovo will be a central theme. Also on the Western Balkans we see traces of the characteristics of the conflicts I have mentioned: tensions of a cultural and religious nature, fragile structures after war and conflict, and groups that need to be involved in political processes. Norway supports the work of the UN Special Envoy Martti Ahtisaari. It's been two weeks since he made his proposal to the parties. He will now have consultations with them before submitting his final proposal to the UN Security Council. It is then important that the Council be able to adopt a resolution reflecting the proposal and that the parties do so in order for the solution to be put into practice. The Kosovo status agreement must safeguard the position and interests of minorities. The aim must be that the entire population of Kosovo can safeguard its own security and determine the direction for its own political development. It demands that we contribute to facilitating long-term economic growth and institutional reforms. But it also demands that the population and its leaders show will for reconciliation and take a clear distance from the use of violence. So to our neighbourhoods. When it comes to Norway’s interests in a traditional sense, we can conclude that many of our main interests are being cared for in our close surroundings in the north. Here we have large natural resources and important partners and allies, large seas and borders – towards international waters and towards large and small neighbouring countries. In the north, much is provided by the basis for safety, welfare and development in Norway, now and in the future. The Nordic regions are therefore the main foreign policy area of the Government. Norway shall be able to recognise in the northern regions. Presence, activity and knowledge are key words for our commitment. The government's Northern Territory Strategy, presented in Tromsø on 1 December last year, provides a comprehensive overview of bets and ambitions. The budget for actions in the north has increased by 270 million. kr. The follow-up to the strategy will be high on the Government's agenda. This is not a bet just for the coming year or a growing period – it is a bet with a generation perspective. The government will be a driver and organizer, where our goal is to invite private and public actors, Norwegian and international, to participate. An important aspect of our north-eastern policy is to discharge our duties, our rights and our responsibilities as a coastal state. Part of this work, on which we spend a lot of time, is often not given much attention in the public, but then hears definitely with and deserves mention. A crucial starting point is to anchor Norway’s policies within the current and respected legal framework. In political relations with other countries, such a lashing provides predictability over time and draws clear lines of Norwegian authority exercise to which other countries too can relate. Such clarity is not least important when several countries report with both interest and interest in the opportunities of the northern regions. Last year, Norway reached agreement on the continental shelf and 200-mile zone boundary in the large sea area between Svalbard and Greenland. And we agreed with Iceland and Denmark/Faeroes on how to draw the boundary lines for the continental shelf outside of 200 nautical miles in the so-called Smuthavet in the Norwegian Sea. This is very important. This means that all significant unexplained borders in western seas are now clear. We give priority to discussions with Russia on the demarcation of continental shelf and zones in the Barents Sea. A solution will benefit both countries and trigger a significant potential for cooperation, not least in the petroleum sector, within what is currently known as the disputed area. The process is constantly being brought down small, but not insignificant, progressed. Both parties endeavour to find a comprehensive solution to the demarcation issue, which takes account of important interests in fisheries and energy. At the same time, we stress that an overall agreement must be seen as just and reasonable on the basis of the criteria of the law of the sea. Here, too, developments in the law of the sea have helped to clarify more and more the factors to be given weight. In order to fulfil our obligations under the law of the sea, last year Norway submitted data on the outer boundary of the continental shelf. The data show that Norway can document a continental shelf of about 250,000 km2 in northern areas, in areas outside the 200-mile limit. The Commission on the outer boundary of the continental shelf, which is a scientific and technical expert body operating a rule-based control of the stability of coastal State data and calculations, will now start its first examination of our documentation and provide the basis for the final clarification of the extent to which the large sea depths of the Norwegian continental shelf extend. I would also like to highlight the five-party agreement for the management of Norwegian springing herring, which was concluded on 18 January this year. It provides Norway with a legitimate share of this important population. It is of great importance both for our own industry and on a broader basis that the agreement reflects more closely the zoning of the herring than was the case in the past. I would like to stress that this agreement has also helped to ensure the management of all fish stocks in our seas, which also migrate in the international waters of the Smutthole and the Smutthavet. There are now appointments for all stocks. This is important for the responsible resource management of living resources in accordance with the principles of the UN Agreement on Fisheries in the High Seas. It is an important starting point for the fight against illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing and other environmental crime at sea, which are among our most serious challenges in our neighbourhoods. Here, too, the Defence and Coast Guard play an important role, through their capacity for continuity, continuous monitoring and enforcement. Research, education and competence are key in the north. It should be Norway's landmark that we are continuing a knowledge-based management based on precautionary approaches in our marine areas. The management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside of Lofoten is part of this tradition. The relationship with Russia is the central bilateral dimension of the Northern Region policy. Policy towards Russia is interest-based and cooperative, pragmatic and firm. Several of the challenges in the north, such as the environment, rescue and preparedness and resource management, can only be solved with Russian involvement and Norwegian-Russian cooperation. At the same time, the dialogue with Russia should be open and clear in terms of our view of the rule of law, human rights and political rights. This is necessary at a time when there are alarming signs of authoritarian trends and more difficult conditions for the press and non-governmental organisations. We'll tell you about that. Major steps have been taken forward in cooperation in the north, through more open borders, the many initiatives of Barents cooperation in the region, an increasing number of cooperation projects – not least in research and education – and ever-increasing people-to-people contacts. There are occasional complications, such as the export of Norwegian fish, where we still have many challenges and have learned that efforts and patience are needed to find solutions. Now we want to move on to the north. We want a dialogue with Russia on enhanced cooperation on both sides of the border to meet the potential for future petroleum activities in the Barents Sea for land-based activities. Today, this is a coastal strip with an infrastructure for a very different time. During the spring we will present thoughts on how we can develop a cooperation in this region, where so much can be changed in the years to come. Energy is a key driver of activities in the northern regions. Norway and Russia share responsibility for developing opportunities in a sound and sustainable way. Petroleum projects such as Snow White and Shtokman illustrate the challenges for activities and cooperation in the Barents Sea. And once again, patience and long-termity are important, for governments and for companies. Energy issues have been given a foreign policy dimension by being at the heart of international relations in terms of energy supply and security. At the same time, the environmental dimension of energy policy is becoming increasingly important. Oil and gas account for a large proportion of greenhouse gas emissions. In the north, we see the fastest effects of global climate change. The image of reduced ice masses is eloquent. Good climate policy is also a sensible energy security policy. What are the implications of these developments in the north of Norway? I want to focus on three dimensions. Firstly, increased international attention to developments on Norwegian pedestal. Although the time of giant finds should be over, the combination of significant oil and gas resources, reliability and predictability will make Norway a desirable partner for European importing countries. The attention to our marine areas will continue — or increase. Secondly, increased international interest in environmental solutions and technological innovations in Norwegian and Norwegian petroleum industries. The fact that Norwegian pedestal is the world's most energy-efficient and environmentally friendly is important for importing countries that want a progressive climate policy. Thirdly, an increased need for close and good dialogue between producer countries and consumer countries. In a interdependence, producer countries seek security for their deliveries, while consumer countries seek secure supplies. Transparency and transparency are necessary for the smooth functioning of global energy markets. Moreover, transparency of the income flows from the extraction of oil, gas and minerals contributes to development and stability. Through support for the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative, the EITI, and the establishment of a secretariat for this initiative in Oslo, we make an important contribution. To sum up, Norway has significant interests in the broad field of foreign policy, energy policy and climate policy. The development of Norway as an energy nation, the importance of knowledge and research in these key areas, not least in the north, and the absolutely necessary place of climate issues – all of this creating a changed picture of Norway compared to 10–20 years ago. Our personality as state is changing. Our gas exports to Europe can increase by about 50 pst. towards 2012 and bring us to the level of Russia's exports to Europe. Until the fall, gas exports start from Snow White to the United States. We sit on large resources – oil and gas – but we also have technologies and knowledge that can make a decisive global contribution to meeting climate challenges. Our energy industry is asserting itself heavily in new markets, in countries where we don't necessarily have long trade traditions, many of them developing, and many of them countries with political regimes that are very different from ours. The sum thereof shall have an impact on the performance of the Norwegian interests. Norwegian practice for the conversion of oil and gas does not change as a result. We emphasise predictability as a result of clear framework conditions. We will perform our role as a large supplier of oil and gas through commercial operators at market conditions. We must continue business and commercial opportunities based on democratically defined and sustainable conditions. At the same time, we need to be able to see a whole where energy and climate become central dimensions, not least in the North Region bet. Therefore, the administration and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs strengthen their capacity in this area. We must also maintain that a north-eastern policy is about land-based activities, the conditions for arctic agriculture and genetic resources. Foreign policy framework conditions are changing and transforming, and we have to ask ourselves: are we sufficiently capable of taking these changes over us? Norwegian alliances change content during the absence of cold war. Together with our allies, we face new security challenges. International alliances and institutions are moving, and Asian major acts such as China and India enter the international scene quickly and heavily with legitimate self-confidence. Europe has expanded and become increasingly integrated, more clearly focused, but with demanding tasks related to its own deepening and further enlargement of the EU, including: against Turkey. The United States has played a different role as a superpower than in the cold war. The fight against international terrorism has created new alliances and new dividing lines. A dimension such as religion and foreign policy – religious practice as a gatekeeper or a peacemaker – is becoming clearer and clearer, with this issue related to identity, freedom of belief, freedom of expression, discrimination and tolerance. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now developing the contact network with religious organisations and leaders in Norway and abroad. In addition, the cultural, identity and reputation dimension of Norwegian foreign policy is strengthened. We have had a broad dialogue on corporate social responsibility, non-governmental organisations and knowledge environments. The emphasis here is on human rights, the environment and anti-corruption. An international conference on social responsibility next month in Oslo is an example of enhanced cooperation in these areas of Norwegian business. Then there is an international trend of special importance for Norway. Multilateralism, as we have known it with the establishment of the UN and Bretton Woods institutions after the Second World War, adopts new forms, gets more actors, new alliances and other networks. A UN-led world order with multilateral anchoring and predictability is of particular importance for Norway. The government contributes – not least through the work of Prime Minister Stoltenberg in the UN panel – to a process that is essential for modernising and streamlining the UN. The UN Reform Panel’s recommendation to establish ‘a United Nations’ in each cooperating country — a Norwegian and Nordic reform proposal for many years — is due to the panel’s proposals under testing in eight pilot countries. Norway will contribute both political and financial support to these important attempts to establish a single programme for the whole UN family funded from a common budget. It is also important for each Member State to be better coordinated within the many UN organisations. Today, we can see that one country is promoting one vision in one UN context and another vision in another UN context. Yes, this requirement for better coordination is a call and challenge that goes so much to ourselves. Once the World Organisation has also had a leadership shift, a clear Norwegian UN exposure, support to the Secretary-General and emphasising reforms will be as important as ever. The work of following up UN Security Council Resolution 1325 to ensure women's involvement in peace negotiations and post-war re-establishment of societies is central to Norway's work and is continuing in many of the areas I have mentioned in the statement. One of the main concerns is that international decision-making structures need to be better able to address the new major global challenges. This concerns the UN, the WTO, many UN special organizations and others. Political responses to the power and space of free market forces need to be developed. Cooperation and consultation mechanisms need to be developed which can take decisions involving several countries, regional and global. Today, the common burdens of the international community must be better captured by global structures capable of making decisions. In parallel with this work within the multilateral institutions, it is necessary to enter into cooperation which may provide new impulses, dynamics and ring-effects to other fields of activity. Finally, let me give five examples — which relate to both scope and instruments — which also illustrate how the outlook for foreign policy is changing and which show how Norway is now building new networks, in addition to its established membership. Firstly, health. Few relationships have such a fundamental importance for human life and for the development of society. In a number of areas, health issues have direct foreign policy relevance, in conflict areas, in relation to epidemics and as the arena for trusting cross-conflict cooperation. Norway and France have taken a closer dialogue initiative and, together with an established group of countries from all parts of the world, we will be tabling proposals during the spring to clarify health issues in international policies. Let me highlight here the work that Norway is doing through our support for the prevention of HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases, among others. through the international vaccination programmes such as GAVI and work on the vaccination of the world’s children and reinforced efforts to achieve the UN’s Millennium Goals to reduce child mortality by two thirds by 2015. Since its establishment in 2000, the Global Vaccine Alliance (GAVI) has prevented some 2.3 million children from dying, especially in poor countries. It's a talking result, it relieves suffering and provides the basis for development. Secondly, climate. Climate challenges require innovation in foreign policy. Multilateral climate negotiations do not show sufficient progress. The Kyoto agreement covers only 30 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions, and the figure is decreasing. Several have to join, the contract work needs to be strengthened and expanded. Norway shall comply with its climate obligations. But we have to move on. We need to address the climate problems bilaterally – create new alliances to contribute to new dynamics. Last year, the government took the initiative to cooperate with China and India in climate change. We are following up this year with new initiatives to increase environmental and climate awareness also against other key actors. Thirdly, human rights and humanitarian law. The government has initiated an international process to ban class ammunition that creates unacceptable humanitarian suffering and prevents development. States and organisations are invited to a meeting in Oslo next week. The aim is to establish cross-regional cooperation to contribute to a new multilateral momentum in order to create a ban on class ammunition with unacceptable humanitarian consequences. This was possible in the field of landmines, and it will be possible again, not least because of the clear role of voluntary organisations. Fourthly, trade and the WTO. Since last summer and especially after the New Year, contact between central Member States has increased in intensity. Norway has also made an active contribution in this process by bringing together five other Member States — Canada, Chile, Indonesia, Kenya and New Zealand — to discuss how we can jointly contribute to the resumption of real negotiations. Together, we share an overall interest in the success of WTO negotiations with particular emphasis on the interests and needs of developing countries. The exposure also gives us access to a new network and new knowledge. Fifthly, work on disarmament and non-proliferation. Norway is the driving force behind the so-called seven-country initiative launched by my predecessors, which I have tried to follow up, and we are going to launch new realistic agendas to make progress in nuclear disarmament, a issue that is as crucial today as it was in the past. Work will be particularly important in starting international work in April, leading to the 2010 Non-Proliferation Agreement (NPT) Conference of Supervisors. Norway will try to show its way here. A great backdrop to these changes for both national and international policies is often referred to as ‘globalisation’, and it has been a key element in this presentation. The world out there is getting closer. This is the background to the Government's initiative for a major investigation project which, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, has been given the provisional title «Norwegian interests in a globalised world». The last time we had a similar broad review was in 1989. A lot has changed since then. The aim is to invite reflection and a wide-ranging discussion on how Norway can best promote its interests, objectives and visions in the context of changing international framework conditions. The project shall be inclusive. Increased insight must be passed on, clearer vision. The investigation project has three main objectives: We want to stimulate a debate on our perceptions of foreign policy interests and objectives. What are the main interests? What are the dimensions? How are we going to make the most sense between them? We want to bring forward new topics that directly affect us – several topics I have mentioned in the presentation. How should foreign policy be used to meet opportunities and challenges in these areas? All of this is – thirdly – about instruments. How do we best promote our main foreign policy objectives? How do we deal with international alliances and institutions in motion, new and established actors, networks and arenas? The government invites political Norway, organisations, research communities and all social stakeholders to dialogue with a view to a better – and wider – understanding of foreign policy. It is the Government's ambition that the outcome of this process be presented to the Storing before the end of the current ageing period. In Norway, we have a long tradition of developing our foreign policy in common. Consulting and agreeing on the large lines has been the main rule and has great value. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the importance of the decision today to increase our contribution to NATO, which is the opening-up of all the parties on the Stortinget. At the same time, however, we also tolerate more – and not less – debate on foreign policy. An unnatural distinction between foreign policy debate and other political debate is not served. We endure and live well with more foreign policy discussion and disunity. Exposure is impossible without it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e372	The President will propose that the Secretary of State’s statement be discussed at a later meeting — and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e386	The issue we are about to deal with now is a theme that is too important in many ways to get as little attention as it does. We today agree to the ratification of the Third International Tropical Timber Agreement. The purpose of the Agreement is to promote international trade in tropical timber from forests with sustainable management and legal logging and to promote the sustainable management of timber-producing tropical forests. The Agreement contains a number of new measures to be taken to achieve those objectives of the Agreement, but does not contain provisions prohibiting international trade in non-compliant timber. First, a little bit about the need for agreements regulating trade in tropical timber and the back cover of why this theme is so important. Each year more than 150 000 km2 of tropical forest is destroyed. It corresponds to approximately half of Norway's area. During the 1990s, 8 pst disappeared. of the tropical forest areas of the world. The deforestation is greatest in Asia, where almost 20 pst. of the tropical forest was destroyed between 1990 and 2000. It was a very popular period to specify the rate of deforestation in the number of football courses that were lost per. minutes. This is a form of production that gives a good picture of the dramatic pace at which the rainforest disappears. Globally, one expects that rainforests will continue to be destroyed equivalent to two football courses per year. seconds. In Asia, large parts of the original rainforest are already permanently destroyed. However, large rain forest areas are preserved on the islands of Southeast Asia, but there are also a number of plant and animal species threatened by deforestation. One example is that the orangutan is found exclusively in this area, and if the forests of Sumatra and Borneo are destroyed, it will soon be eradicated. Recognized scientists assume that 137 species die in the rainforest every day, or about 50,000 every year. Most of the imports of tropical wood into Norway come from just this area. Many products on the market in Norway are made from threatened rainforests. The largest consumption of tropical wood is found in the construction products sector. Parquets and plywoods are the dominant individual products made of rainforest wood. The tropical rainforest is a much more complex ecosystem than Norwegian forest. It has many more species and individuals. While in the rainforest it is estimated that there are well over 50,000 different species of wood, the figure for Norway is less than 30. When the trees in the rain forest disappear, the soil is washed down into streams and rivers and leads to contamination of drinking water sources. Tropesola dries out the earth and creates desert conditions. Deforestation of the rainforest changes climatic conditions locally, regionally and globally. Over half of the precipitation over the rainforest evaporates directly and creates new precipitation. In deforestation areas, the recycling of water and steam is reduced and areas become more dry. Air flows transporting hot air and water from the equator are also affected. As I was inside, over half of the earth's species live in the rainforests. This vast diversity has both self-esteem and utility, because when plant and animal species are eradicated as a result of the loss of rainforest, the possibilities of finding medical components, food plants and materials are lost for all future. Examples of common products that we use in everyday life, which originate from the rainforest, are many. Coffee, cocoa, vanilla, ginger, bananas, pineapple, rubber, pepper and coconut are some examples. Medicinal products that are essential for the treatment of, inter alia: cancer, malaria, heart disease, bronchitis, dysentery and tuberculosis have all been developed on the basis of chemicals from plants and animals living in the tropics. In addition, many pharmaceutical products contain substances originating in the rain forests. In short, our survival depends on earth's ecosystems being intact and functioning. The rainforest plays a very important role in the atmosphere, because it stores carbon in the vegetation. When the rainforests are cut or burned, carbon is released to the atmosphere as carbon dioxide, i.e. CO2. This is in fact the second most important cause of increased greenhouse effect. The conservation and sustainable use of forests is therefore a prerequisite for meeting the climate challenge. The need for this is also underlined in the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Agreement. Once the rainforest is destroyed, it's gone forever. The extraction of tropical timber is now evenly above a level far beyond that of soundness. It must therefore be a clear objective to reduce the consumption of tropical wood. Commercial logging is the main reason why rainforests and other tropical forests are destroyed, and much of the logging is illegal. The destruction of the rain forests takes the livelihood of millions of people, often the poorest in the world. The protection of the rainforest is therefore also a long-term guarantee of the resource base of these people, and it is essential to win the fight against poverty. This is also fully in line with the recommendations made by over 1,300 experts and researchers in a UN report that was presented this year. The problems associated with the import of tropical wood are so great that it is legitimate to impose requirements on the imported timber. The highest destroys irreplaceable natural values and takes the life base of millions of people. In general, maximum permits are granted to companies with close links with the elite in the countries, and few or no account is taken of the local population. Lack of markets and low demand have been a problem for those who are actually trying to operate sound forestry in tropical areas, in particular because there has been too much access to irresponsible and illegal timber at too low a price. The setting of certification requirements increases incentives for a transition to sustainable forest management. However, there is currently no sufficiently reliable international certification system that can guarantee that the wood meets satisfactory environmental and social criteria. It is therefore important that Norway work internationally to ensure that this can become a reality. The agreement we agree to today also encourages Member States to continue working on such certification schemes. I think it is positive that the government has said in its government statement that it should consider investigating a temporary import ban on tropical timber until we see that we have such credible certification schemes in place. There are many problems related to such a possible national import ban, but many other countries and many other governments have assessed it and now assess it, and I think it is nice that we have a government that is capable of acting and at least look at the possibilities to make the most active to help preserve more rainforest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e441	Like the rapporteur, I would also like to mention that this is an important matter, although it may not get the big statements in the next few days. This is about major environmental challenges that can only be solved through demanding international cooperation. So we have to take the challenge – think globally and act locally. What is important here is that this agreement was adopted and that Norway has ratified it. But at the same time, we have to realize that it's a long way to go before we can stop the deforestation that's happening in the world. The loss of biodiversity and sustainable development for indigenous groups and local populations living in the jungles is a real challenge. Unfortunately, it is a fact that the level of deforestation is as high as before. Most of the timber is harvested in the rainforests, which contributes to serious environmental damage, on which the rapporteur was involved. In addition, there is a real challenge: these are local resources on which the local population depends. We see examples of strong economic forces being deployed, and logging is being carried out — without the local population at all, without any economic return to the indigenous population. We've seen examples of that in Africa. We also see examples of how in Europe we focus on bioenergy, which is less polluting, and prioritise this type of energy. And then we're facing the fact that maybe not as well known, that much of the biomass used to create bioenergy in Europe is actually coming from threatened regions of the tropics. There is reason to focus on the Government's Soria Moria statement, where it says it will «prohibited a ban on the import of tropical timber and timber until a credible certification system for timber can guarantee that the wood originates from ecologically and socially sound extraction». It's important to keep this going. We must therefore work to stop the loss of the world's rainforests. We have to work to stop the invaluable loss of biodiversity. We need to ensure that local communities participate in the long-term, sustainable management of the resources available in the rainforests. We need to come back with stronger and newer measures than those in the agreement, in ITTA. Therefore, neither the Stortinget nor the Government can say that they have finished the job after this ratification. We must continue with many measures involving both carrots and whips, including a ban on imports. It is important that Norway promote this work and carry it on in all relevant international forums.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e457	I am pleased that the new international agreement on tropical timber represents an improvement in relation to the current agreement on major points. First of all, I would like to point out that the environmental perspective is strengthened, which also applies to the mention of sustainable forestry. One aim of the agreement is to promote a better understanding of the importance of non-empty forest products and environmental services. This applies, inter alia, to: the production of oxygen and the reduction of CO2 in the atmosphere, the balance of the water household and the conservation of diversity of species. Furthermore, the importance of enhanced forest management is underlined in order to ensure that trade in tropical timber products comes from sustainable forestry. Another important aspect of the agreement is that it highlights the importance of the fact that the products have been harvested and traded legally. Therefore, the increased use of voluntary mechanisms for the trading of tropical timber, including certification, is encouraged. The left sees it as a step forward that the agreement takes more account of human relations, including social aspects. It therefore intends to contribute to poverty reduction, with a special spotlight on forest-dependent indigenous peoples and indigenous peoples. The agreement also highlights the need for better living standards and working conditions for forest workers. All these measures are supported by a better and longer-term funding mechanism. Important elements here are increasing the financial contribution of consumer countries and opening up voluntary contributions. This will facilitate increased resources for the building of competences and training to promote sustainable forest management and combat illegal logging. In view of this, I believe that the new agreement will be an important instrument to promote international cooperation on sustainable management of tropical forests and trade in tropical timber. The wording of the agreement is somewhat less binding in several of these areas than one might wish. Nevertheless, overall the agreement must be characterised as good and significantly better than the previous one — ITTA 1994.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e477	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that matters be dealt with as follows: 3 and 4 are treated together. [[Footing, see page 1897]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e506	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the maximum speaking time for the main speakers from each party group and members of the Government be set at 10 minutes, and for the other speakers at 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e513	In just over a month, people from our entire continent will gather in Berlin to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the European Union, or the 50th anniversary of the conclusion of the Treaty of Rome. We who were born during these 50 years have experienced a unique increase in wealth and cultural cooperation. We grew up in political stability and security. It has happened across borders, which have given the same Europe so much war and misery in previous times. The Foreign Affairs Committee met in a unanimous position on European policy last week. It must also be called a unique phenomenon, even though it is not exactly of the same dimension as the conclusion of the Treaty of Rome. The Committee notes how the EU has contributed to ensuring European prosperity and peace over these 50 years. While the EU has grown from six to 27 Member States, the Union has, through inspiration and extensive demands, led to democracy in previous dictatorships and economic and social prosperity in poor countries. Portugal, which received Norwegian development aid until the 1970s, is now a prosperous European country. Ireland, until recently Europe's poorest outpost towards the west, now has a gross domestic product per capita. citizens who are able to compete with Norway. Former Communist dictatorships in the east have built democratic institutions according to specific EU requirements. There are still six countries in the Balkans outside the EU, but all knocks on the door. Turkey does the same thing. All these countries still have a way to go before they meet the strict requirements to become members of the EU. Nevertheless, there is much evidence that EU requirements contribute to development. I am pleased that the Foreign Affairs Committee as a whole emphasises the role played by the EU and continues to play in the democratisation of the former totalitarian states of Europe. We are now seeing the seven non-member countries in south-east Europe working on corruption issues, respect for minorities, strengthening justice, human rights and building a functioning market economy. When I talk to politicians from these countries, I also get an answer to where they draw the inspiration from in this difficult work, because it is not natural that it is easy to do anything about issues such as corruption and human rights violations in areas that have just undergone war and civil war. It is a goal of EU membership once in the future that helps to give inspiration and keep the goal of binding countries together to cope with the transformation and change in their own country. It has been a long time since the EU could be called a rich man's club. The Union is providing massive assistance to new and potential members, who, with Ireland and Portugal, we see that this is beneficial. In my view, asking Norway to contribute to this solidarity project is only reasonable, both because we benefit from access to the internal market and because it is right for us to contribute to democracy and prosperity in our own part of the world. On the one hand, we will contribute generously, but I also support the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we should not give a blank cheque to the EU's solidarity work in the East. We should remember that the EU spends almost 200 billion dollars each year to the countries of the east, so it is right that we make a real but reasonable contribution from the EEA country of Norway. In the right, it is important that we balance tough demands for new Member States with the extensive support provided. There are, as mentioned, difficult processes. We even know from this room how challenging it can be to carry out difficult processes. I believe that the EU's pressure and support are a necessary external force to ensure the necessary reforms. Reforms are again necessary for the former totalitarian countries to be included in the European Community which has given prosperity and security through generations. When I spend time on this, it is to remind you that in the 50s this has been one of the most important contributions to Europe from the EU. The approach may focus on more prosaic issues related to how to address EU issues in Norway. The Foreign Affairs Committee has gathered on a number of important issues of European policy. The essence of this is that the technical committees should be involved in the work now limited to the EEA Committee, but even more importantly, the Stortinget should be involved in the professional debates in Europe before the directives are finally adopted by Brussels. The Committee stresses that the EU should no longer be seen as a foreign policy issue. EU issues now address all aspects of Norwegian society. The EU has thus become municipal policy, justice policy, social policy and education policy. For this reason, the Foreign Affairs Committee also wants all the Scientific Committees in Stortinget to deal with the EU. It has been important for the Right to provide expert committees with tools to address EU issues while they are still at the research and ideas stage in Brussels. One tool is that the Government orientates the Government about important developments. Another tool is to allow the Committees to initiate cases even in EU issues/EEA issues. Such right of initiative is necessary if the Committees are to be able to adequately monitor EU matters. The Foreign Affairs Committee attaches great importance to transparency around EU work. It is gratifying that we have received unison support for the proposal of the Right on half-yearly statements by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on EU and EEA matters – because I have just heard that there are many other things happening in the world, although EU issues may be closer to our everyday lives than many of the other issues, and they deserve closer attention than it will give a few minutes internally in a large foreign policy statement. Another innovation behind the Committee is that meetings of the EEA Committee should no longer be secret. As I said, we ask the Government to brief the European Union on important developments, because the Nordics are affected by what is happening within the EU. The Government documents on new initiatives in European cooperation are therefore important to ensure good information, greater debate and greater participation in EU decision-making processes, because it is only when we have debated and taken a stand that we can really influence. It is good that the Government also highlights how transparency should guide the work of the EU administration. This is in line with how the EU is now changing to become more open. Norway has chosen to stand outside the decision-making process of EU cooperation. Some Norwegian politicians can give the impression that this is an intermediate phase in which we manage until the European Union disappears. If the EU has come to stay, and affects us as much as it does, surely the logical end should be that we should have a word in the team in what is happening, not just adapt ourselves. I believe that the answer to many of the issues raised both in the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee and in the government's communication should have been that we had said that in order to have full influence in the simplest way, we should be members of the EU. Initially, I was concerned with how the European Union has contributed to peace, democracy and economic development in Europe, and that we have benefited from this. It is not only France and Germany that have served to ensure that there has been peace between these two countries since 1945. Nor is it just Poles who have been glad that their communist dictatorship has disappeared. Norway is not isolated from what is happening on the other side of Skagerrak. We trade with France and Germany, travel on vacation, accept skilled Polish workers and deal with the countries of our own continent in most disciplines. The Committee on Foreign Affairs expresses concern that the EU will become more concerned with both integration and enlargement in the future, and does not see us in the same way that they may have seen us before. Integration and enlargement will be beneficial for EU cooperation, but it will also lead to a marginalisation of Norway. When Norwegian bureaucrats meet in Brussels, they still have to remember that the EEA is the reason why they are there. Many in the EU do not know about the EEA. A returned Norwegian bureaucrat has described how he tends to bring with him a table sign on which Norway stands – it is not always that the meeting organisers have remembered to find out the signs of the EEA countries when there are committee meetings in Brussels. It is therefore agreed that the EU has an impact on Norway. In this way, the setting is a milestone, with the admission of all parties that we are strongly influenced by the EU. It's going to be like that no matter what kind of connection we want with the Union. EU countries are our neighbouring countries. We will continue to have them as our main trading partners in the future. We want to travel to the EU countries, and labour will move across borders. We will depend on each other to ensure a good future, and not least we have a historical and cultural community with Europe. The right, as the only party in this room, has taken the consequence that we have ended up in the hall in Brussels. But today that is not the main theme. Today, the main theme is how we can make the best use of our interests and influence them. I believe that the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee is a good start, if the Government also follows up with transparency and information to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e555	For us who are concerned about Norway's relationship with Europe and the EU, it has been encouraging to work on the positions of the Foreign Affairs Committee that the UK is now debating. Not least, it has been satisfactory to be able to provide unanimous committee settings – settings that in many ways mean a small revolution in Storting’s work on EU/EEA issues. I would therefore like to congratulate Mr Solberg and my colleagues from the other parties on the fact that we have managed to concentrate on what the big message actually concerns. I would also like to mention here the great agreement the content got from the hearing bodies. The notification does not cover the question of the form of association with the European Union and the Committee has profitably avoided this pitfall. We have assumed that our existing main relationship with the EU is the EEA Agreement, but also important areas of cooperation such as Schengen and defence and security policy. Otherwise, I share many of the assessments on the importance of the EU and development in the EU, on which Solberg’s representative spent some time in his speech. A key message in the vote is that we have found a common political basis for improving work on EU/EEA matters, and the Stortinget has responded clearly to the Government's call for clear and early policy priorities, good implementation, coordination and exploitation of the opportunities, good governance of the commitments, raising skills and increasing transparency and dialogue. In 1994, there were enough people who did not foresee that Norway’s exclusion would mean that EU legislation – not to mention ESA – would affect so many areas of Norwegian legislative and regulatory development. It is therefore right that relations with the EU cannot be seen as a purely foreign policy issue. EU policies now address all aspects of Norwegian society, including traditional domestic policies. The Labour Party is pleased that the Committee has worked together in joint formulations on the EU's importance for Norway and that EU cooperation is a positive contribution in Europe. The central issue here, however, is how Norway, together with the parliamentary level and other stakeholders, can involve us more strongly in caring for Norwegian interests before decisions are taken in the EU and become relevant to the EEA. Norway is more directly involved in the work on Schengen matters. The Government has provided a positive evaluation of the Schengen cooperation and stressed that Norway has earned an offensive position in this field and has communicated Norwegian positions at the earliest possible stage in the negotiations. This position must be included in other areas where Norwegian interests are to be safeguarded. The Government has, in its Communication, promoted an action plan for the implementation of European policy. This is positive, and it is an overall agreement here in the House for a strong and offensive European policy. Another main message from the suspension is that the Stortinget wants to develop parliamentary links with the EU system and expand its own apparatus and competences. The Labour Party wants the Stortinget to play a more active role in Norwegian cooperation with the EU and to play a stronger role in the early phase. The suggestions here are many and have perhaps been the most exciting to work with in the job setting because there has been some new work. The influence of the European Parliament on the design of legislation is increasing. This is not a topic today, but a good example may be the proposal for a new Services Directive. Parliament has an open decision-making process that potentially strengthens Norway's ability to understand and contribute to the drafting of new acts. This is an opportunity I think we can and should exploit in a better way. The Labour Party is therefore pleased that a Joint Committee wishes to strengthen contact with the European Parliament in order to exchange views and make Norwegian interests known, but also in order to develop wider competences in EU/EEA issues with ourselves. Support for the party groups on the Grand Duchy to develop relations with parties in the European Parliament and an annual delegation of large-scale representatives to Brussels could contribute positively to the same. The treatment of EU/EEA matters needs to be ensured at a wider level of anchoring and involvement of the specialist committees here in Stortinget. In order to increase participation and knowledge, the Committee considers that the Storting must be made regularly aware of developments in the EU and with matters assumed by the Government will have an impact on Norway. It is positive that the Government in its action plan commits itself to providing the Storting with information of this kind at an early stage. How best this can be done, the Storting of the Presidency, in consultation with the Government, must propose. I believe here we can gain some of the experience with the Swedish Parliamentary Day schemes and the evaluations and changes that have been made. However, the Committee is specific in the wording of Document No. 8:105 for 2005-2006, from the Right, where the Government is asked to make half-yearly presentations to the Storting on important EU/EEA matters. We also ask the Presidency to examine the right of initiative of the Trade Union Committees, so that they themselves, among other things. will be able to obtain information. The working party agrees that the principle of transparency shall also apply to the EEA Committee. Unnecessary secrecy does not exactly contribute to public debate, and we see no need for secret stamping records in general from meetings of the EEA Committee, except where it does. for negotiating positions e.g. The Labour Party believes that the Storting should strengthen its own apparatus in EU/EEA matters in terms of investigative and information capacity. In the same direction, possible secondment from the Grand Duchy at the level of officials in the European Parliament, corresponding to other Nordic countries, is also drawn. Of course, it is assumed that we are welcome. Competence building is the basis for a permanent training structure in EU affairs here in the Grand Duchy and the possible establishment of a host institution in the European Parliament for advisers in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and employees in the administration of the Grand Duchy. European policy must be a key area of action for Norway, given the importance of the EU for the development of common laws and regulations in the EEA area, and because the EU plays a crucial role in many other areas of development across Europe. I believe that the Stortinget today provides a common political basis for a more offensive and comprehensive European policy, the main purpose of which is to safeguard Norwegian interests and values in an increasingly evolving Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e597	Many claim, and certainly rightly so, that Norway is the most successful member of the European class in transforming EU/EEA directives into Norwegian laws and regulations and effectively enforcing them. Evil tongues even claim that the Storting in many cases acts as a despatch office, which passively accepts most of the EEA-related issues that come under treatment. It is now necessary to review our treatment methods regardless of whether these claims are correct or not. St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006 is not about what form of association Norway should have with the European Union, but about how, in today’s form of association, we can improve our work on the EEA issues and make maximum use of the possibilities of influence. Large parts of Norwegian society are increasingly affected by decisions taken in the EU as a result of EEA cooperation. But the EEA Agreement is no longer the only form of association we have with the European Union. Cooperation arrangements in the field of foreign and security policy and Schengen cooperation are examples of this. All of this should mean that the need for reform is now being identified and updated on a review of today's case procedures from the Norwegian side. The possibilities for influence by the Norwegian authorities must be optimised. The main objectives of the Communication are to ensure clear and early policy priorities, coordination and exploitation of the possibilities, implementation and management of commitments, raising skills, transparency and dialogue. We are, of course, committed to these objectives, and are satisfied with the fact that a joint committee is behind them. Greater transparency in decision-making processes was a clear wish of all those who were at consultation in the Committee. This wish is also followed up by the Committee, which calls for different levels of authority and parts of society to be involved in the work for more transparency on EEA matters and other issues relating to Norwegian cooperation with the EU. In the context of Schengen cooperation, it is also important that we safeguard Norwegian interests in the best possible way. Norway deserves to adopt an offensive approach and to communicate Norwegian positions at the earliest possible stage in the negotiations on new challenges, new arrangements and new legislation. Unfortunately, in some areas Norway has not had satisfactory access to EU police cooperation. This is because the cooperation that was part of Schengen is now integrated into the EU. The Progress Party we have a strong and offensive European policy in today's form of association. We therefore support the Government's objectives set out in the Action Plan and the initiative to reorganise and systematise European policy. We will also stress that our possible impact on matters depends on our getting involved at the earliest possible time. The way in which the EU/EEA issues are dealt with now requires reforms. The Committees of the European Parliament today have a very passive role to play in this respect, which is probably due to the role of the EEA Committee in the EEA. I am therefore pleased that a joint committee recommends that the Storting should facilitate greater involvement of the Standing Committees in EU/EEA matters. Early involvement in the affairs of Stortinget also requires consultation of Stortinget at an early stage by the Government. According to the Government's Action Plan, this is to be followed up by providing the Storting with information on proposals for new legal acts, EU programmes, Green Papers, White Papers and other important initiatives in the EU at the earliest opportunity. We would also like to express our support for the initiative to have half-yearly presentations in the European Union/EEA cases. The need for an appropriate, structured and transparent handling of current EU/EEA cases from the Government to the Grand Duchy may require amendments or adaptations to the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy, as today’s major messages may be too extensive for this purpose. On the part of the Progress Party, we would point out that the Swedish Trade Union Committees should be involved both in the past and to a greater extent than today. We therefore agree that the Permanent Committees should also be able to take initiatives to follow specific EU/EEA-related issues, and we support the Presidency's recommendation on an addendum to the Rules of Procedure that can make this possible. Finally, I would like to pay tribute both to the rapporteur and to the members of the committee, who have helped us to deal with a unanimous position today. I believe that this pragmatic approach to the issues that we see from all the parties in the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee can be an important step in the right direction, which can contribute to an open debate and which can give us both increased influence and involvement in European policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e629	All indications suggest that Norway’s relationship with the EU will be governed for a long time in the future by the provisions of the EEA Agreement. The Soria Moria declaration also states that no new EU application should be submitted during this period. Since I have read some speculations in the newspapers that the no-parts are on the loose, I will immediately clarify that they are not the no-parts – at least not the no-parts SV. I'm assuming that the other parties will explain their positions. Since the rapporteur also highlighted developments in the EU, I would like to say that there is no majority in Norway to send a new application. On the contrary, there has been a rather stable no-majority over two years. I would also like to point out, in the light of the rapporteur's interpretation of EU developments, that some very strong reasons for the no-majority in France and the Netherlands when they had a referendum on the Constitution were precisely that this was an elite project. There was resistance to market liberalism, as expressed in the proposal for the Services Directive, etc. This is something that the party has also focused on. There are therefore no plans to apply for EU membership. On the contrary, the Soria Moria Declaration states that the EEA Agreement is binding, and that is what we are dealing with. Sick if SV would have had other forms of association with the EU and see many problematic aspects of the EEA Agreement, we are dealing with the Soria Moria Declaration in this area. The treatment of new EEA laws has always been a democratic tool in Norwegian policy. I'm looking at the setting that we're dealing with right now, as an expression of that recognition. It's been recognized before. «The EEA cases are being dealt with unresponsibly by the Stortinget,» said Haakon Blankenborg, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy, in the Stortinget in March 1996. He felt that longer deadlines and better assessments of the impact of the Directives on Norway were needed. As early as the autumn of 2000, the government asked for proposals on how to strengthen EEA work so as to ensure greater transparency and greater and wider influence in decision-making processes, both in the EEA and in the public at large. It is the contentious flow of legal texts from Brussels that has created a situation of abstinence that both EEA opponents and EEA supporters have reacted to. I see the setting and initiatives that will now be taken as an expression to do something about it. The need for a more active and targeted policy by the various governments was also underlined in a report by State Consultant in 2000. It concluded that Norway does not exploit in any way the potential to influence future EEA rules. The Court of Auditors has also dealt with the EEA work. Among other things, they wrote in a report that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at that time had not drawn up EEA strategy papers or guidelines in addition to the European Policy Platform and the related actions. Furthermore, the Riksrevision wrote that more than half of the cases dealt with in the special committee meetings between the ministries in the period 1999–2003 had already been adopted in the EU. Only 11 pst. of the cases were in the preparatory phase. This was the background to SV promoting a Document No in May 2005. 8-proposal for a more active Norwegian EEA policy. I am therefore very pleased that we have a government that both takes responsibility in this area and does something for an active policy, and that there is now a cross-political consensus here on the Stortingen that the Stortingen must have work forms that give the Stortingen influence at an early stage, and that can give a public, informative debate in civil society. Norwegian parties and organisations need to have better opportunities to find out what is happening in the EU’s unbridled system, to gather information and to keep in touch with partners within the EU. There are three conditions that must be met in order to make it possible to exploit the possibilities provided for in the EEA Agreement. Firstly, the Norwegian interests concerned must become aware of the fact that a future EEA case is under discussion in the EU. Secondly, the Norwegian interests concerned must be informed as early as possible of how the proposal for a legislative act is assessed by the Norwegian professional bodies and by the Norwegian authorities. Thirdly, the interested Norwegian interests need to be helped to find out how far a case has come in the unbridled EU system and which bodies it is going through until final decisions are taken by the EU Council of Ministers. What I understand is that the government will do in its action plan, and what the big deal is now doing is to take this into account. That's kind of the answer to these challenges. From now on, Norwegian growth and civil society, which have a lot of knowledge in this area, will have more to say. And I, along with the others who have spoken, would like to commend both the case rapporteur and the other members of the committee for addressing these challenges and giving some proper answers. What are the actual answers? The first is that the Minister for Foreign Affairs makes half-yearly presentations on EU and EEA matters for an open enlargement. This will allow us to have a public debate. The second is that the standing committees are given a type of right of initiative to initiate matters, as the rapporteur said. Furthermore, it is up to the EEA legislation to be reviewed by the Standing Committees by submitting comments on the lists at the same time as the EEA Committee to examine the acts. Then I think it is important that the Committee supports the Government, that the Storting should be informed about proposals for new legal acts, EU programmes, green papers, white papers and other important initiatives at an early stage, and that the Storting should be asked to comment on important societal implications at the time of the first submission of the acts. These include: At Bjørnstad, it was important that the EEA Committee reports should be open. This will also allow for a public debate. The initiative taken by the Committee to carry out much wider work on competences by strengthening both the investigative capacity and the information service in order to carry out more out-of-the-art work on cooperation in the EU is also important. I also think that the proposal that a host institution should be set up in the European Parliament for political advisers in the large-scale groups and for employees in the administration of the Stortinge is a positive one. Here, there are great opportunities for early involvement in an informed debate on a cooperation that is increasingly involved in domestic policy issues, as the rapporteur said so clearly about, and which I support.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e661	To be discussed today, we have a unanimous position by the Foreign Affairs Committee. It is probably a tangible proof that the EEA Agreement has proved to be more robust and appropriate than most thought when the EEA cooperation was first adopted in Stortinget. And now we are taking new initiatives to further improve work on EEA issues. Let me highlight three main points that the parties agree on. This applies to both reality and instruments. Firstly, a unanimous committee believes that it is possible to increase Norwegian influence on the development of new legislation under the EEA Agreement and is in favour of a number of measures to achieve it. Secondly, a unanimous committee believes that it is possible to strengthen Storting’s participation in the Norwegian decision-making process and to open up reforms that will further democratise the EEA Agreement. Thirdly, a unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee believes that there is room for greater transparency in the handling of EEA issues by the Storting and has gathered on measures to achieve it. In other words, we have gathered on instruments to achieve three main objectives: firstly, stronger Norwegian influence, secondly, greater popular participation and thirdly, greater transparency. These are reforms that will improve the functioning of the EEA Agreement in practice. It will strengthen the EEA Agreement. And that naturally welcomes the Christian People's Party. For my part, I would like to highlight one aspect that makes this setting interesting from a larger perspective. That is the democratization aspect. The setting is permeated by a desire to strengthen the participation and participation of elected representatives in decision-making processes. It's important. In a sense, there is a contradiction to heavy trends in time, trends that two Norwegian power investigations have pointed to. The first power investigation, which came in 1981, focused on the government's exercise of power at the expense of the Storting. The last power investigation, launched in 2003, turned the spotlight on the increased power of the courts and other judicial bodies at the expense of the power of the elected people. The investigation of power and democracy used the term ‘justification’ to refer to the former situation within the sphere of competence of the elected peoples, but which was transferred to judicial bodies, so that the power of the political body was similarly limited. In particular, the evaluators pointed out that the internationalisation of legal material has reduced the role of elected representatives. The EU is an example of what the EEA is an example of this, and the WTO is – and may become increasingly – an example of this. In such a perspective, I see several of the motions for resolutions as an important contribution to the vitalization and strengthening of the role of the Storting in an increasingly internationalised world. Not least because of this, I appreciate that the Foreign Affairs Committee showed the will and ability to reach an agreement on the position we are discussing today. It's good to be able to stand on this pulpit and talk about what we agree on, especially on a day when the activity in the room behind us focuses on what we disagree about. Because in such a broader perspective, we see more clearly the political and democratic importance of the practical reforms that we are now putting forward in the handling of EEA matters on the Norwegian side. It is an unusually long list of measures that we recommend in this setting implemented. Many have already been mentioned in the debate. Let me highlight some of the Christian People's Party's emphasis on: We must use the possibilities of increased influence and early influence. It requires clarification of Norwegian positions in the past. Therefore, the Government should consult the Stortinget as early as possible. As part of such an early clarification, the Committee supports proposals to provide half-yearly presentations on EU/EEA matters in a transparent manner. The Permanent Committees of the Grand Duchy should also be involved early in the proceedings. They should be better informed about developing issues and the Committees should be given the right of initiative in order to be able to better monitor EEA matters in their own fields of action. The EEA Committee should be retained, but the minutes of the Committee’s meetings should be made publicly available immediately, with the exception of those parts which must be kept secret for negotiation purposes e.g. the size should make better use of the possibilities of information and influence through different contact networks in the EU Parliament, as well as the parliamentary contact formally established by the EEA Agreement.The lobbying activity plays a significant role in the EU system, and the Committee emphasises the potential for increased uptake that lies in a more active interaction between Norwegian public and private actors.The size should also strengthen its own independent investigation capacity and information service on EEA matters. In sum, the reforms we are now in favour of are significant, and there is no doubt that there is a need for improvement. Personally, I have seen it from the government position for many years and now for the last and a half years in Stortinget it is quite important to contribute to it. It can certainly be called an understatement when I say that it is from the staging side that I have learned that the need for reform is greatest. The participation of the majority in these cases is in very many cases very limited and very little worth. It's our responsibility as elected representatives to do something about it, and I'm happy to be able to contribute to it through this setting. I am also pleased that the parties working on today’s suspension were able to leave disagreements on the EU relationship, and so succeeded in creating a focused and comprehensive attitude on how to improve the treatment of the EU and EEA-related issues on the Norwegian side. It is in place when the Committee opens its joint comments stating that the Government of the notification makes it clear that this is not a major communication on forms of association with the European Union but a communication on improvements to work on EEA matters and a review of the experience of Schengen cooperation. If we managed to keep focus in the setting, it might not be as easy for everyone to do it here in the storeroom, though the debate so far has been handled well in that way. Instead of ensuring progress along the solid rails placed in the adjustment, it will soon be a derailment of the debate if it becomes a question of form of connection in this process. The EEA Agreement has been the main platform for Norway’s cooperation with the European Union since the mid-1990s. Since then, we've had governments with varying compositions. But in common with them all, they have found that the EEA Agreement has served Norway well. Therefore, the Governments of the Workers' Party based themselves on the, therefore, the central government of the Workers' Party, so it was built upon by the Cooperation Government, and therefore the current government of Norway’s relationship with the EU is based on this cooperation platform. Within these governments, there have been different first preferences — some have preferred a trade agreement, some EU membership, and others have preferred the EEA Agreement. In short, close cooperation but not membership of the Union. It has also become the overall solution within all three coalition governments we have seen since 1997, and it has served as an aggregate national solution over a number of years. As one of the parties that has the EEA Agreement as their first choice, I have to say that I am very pleased to note that. This does not mean that the EEA Agreement is unproblematic in all its operations for Norway. The attitude is clear on the recognition that there is room for improvement in the way we live up to that agreement, and the way we manage our opportunities. But I'm, as I said, satisfied that a total accumulation on this point goes into order to make a good order even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e717	With St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006 we have been presented with a very important document on participation, transparency and democratisation in a very important field of work. I recorded that the case rapporteur was in so far as the possibility of taking up a debate on EU connectivity was concerned. I won't. I will stick to that matter. An active European policy that is being worked on here is evidence that we have come to a crossroads with regard to Norwegian European policy. Instead of passive adaptation to directives and legal acts, Norway will have the opportunity to take initiatives to challenge the EU and to fill a political space that we have long left empty. The centre party is fundamentally concerned with a living democracy, with open debates, and with the fact that the elected representatives are to rule the country at all levels. It is the elected representatives who are to be held responsible for the decisions taken. I believe that with the attitude that the Foreign Affairs Committee has unanimously come to, and that has been presented to the Stortinget, we have come a long way forward in terms of a more living government. The centre party is probably a conservative party in terms of governance and politics that weakens the rule of the people, but we are seeking to be a leading party in terms of adaptations that can strengthen the same regime of the people. With the Storting decision on greater transparency and right of initiative for the Committees in EEA cases, we believe that we have taken such a step towards modernisation. It is a step in the direction of the Storting taking more responsibility and giving more leadership where balances are required between the issue of sovereignty that needs to be resolved globally and the national commitments and challenges that need to be addressed locally. Norway will and will have an independent voice in the world. With the need for ever-increasing expansion and return on global capital, we have got the EU and the EU's Lisbon strategy, which aims to make the EU competitive on the international market. The EU is constantly expanding what is considered to be a market into traditional domestic policy issues. We note this with regard to EU policy towards Norway in the context of the EEA Agreement. It requires an active and popularly anchored policy, where Norway is to maintain political space for national construction and an independent voice on a global theme. I believe that the government follows up what it has promised. We have got back one of our most important district policy instruments, the differentiated employer fee. The Government proposes that the right of repatriation be maintained. It looks like we're getting an impact on it. And we are taking the time to assess the EU Services Directive, so that we can ensure that we have the necessary tools for a decent and inclusive working life, against social dumping, while at the same time ensuring consumer rights in a more global market. The Central Party takes note of the review of Schengen cooperation. However, there is reason to point out from our side that this work needs to be done more thoroughly in cooperation with the relevant professional committees, and in line with what we have agreed on in the examination of this communication. With the Government's new European policy and the attitude of the Foreign Affairs Committee today, we will be able in a far more active way to make clear the leadership of the process. Let us look at the neighbouring country Sweden, which is within the EU. In Sweden, there has already been a modernisation of Riksdag's working methods. The Parliament shall be given «transparency, influence and control» over government policies in the Council of Ministers of the European Union. The Government may not participate in the various Council of Ministers configurations without prior consultation of the Parliament. In this cooperation, the government shall provide information on the status of the issues concerned, the possible implications for Sweden, the positions of other EU countries and seek support for the preliminary Swedish positions and proposals for negotiating strategy. There is a formal ‘very strong reason’ required for the government to deviate from the de facto mandate it receives from the EU name. More than ever, there is a need for active and more political-leading growth and openness in the political choices made. Until now, the forms of work in Stortinget have not been good enough. It is therefore gratifying for the Centre Party that we have an overall increase that wants Norway’s EEA policy to have a greater degree of transparency and that there should be clearer leadership from the people elected. The size should now be given more responsibility in the EEA policy. Then those who chose us on Stortinget can also make more demands on us in terms of liability. For the Central Party, this is just a first step in the direction of a more modern People's Rule. Through this treatment and the decisions we are making, the Norwegian Magnificent will take a clearer responsibility for the challenges posed by today's European Union and which are a consequence of the globalisation we are in. The time for a new democracy is coming. The Central Party is convinced that the voters will hold their elected representatives responsible for the policy they conduct. More transparency in the EEA and more responsibility in foreign policy will contribute to this. We need the elected ones to rule. We need an open debate. In conclusion, I want to pay tribute to the work done in the committee and to the fact that we got a joint committee. The centre party shall agree to the Committee's setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e750	We live in a time of great change on the international scene. From a Norwegian point of view, the EU is an important part of this picture. The way the EU will take in the future will be of great importance to Norway. The EU's undefended position, both to itself and to the outside world, was put on the verge of a new constitution. First, France and then the Netherlands rejected a proposed constitution in the context of referendums. After a longer and much-described pause of thought, the work on a new constitution has now started again. Germany’s Chancellor Angela Merkel has undertaken the task of getting back to work on the basic law. She is undoubtedly facing a very difficult task, as she has to reconcile very different views and interests in the EU. The aim is to have a new constitution passed across the Union before the elections of the new EU Parliament and the new Commission in 2009. Key issues are whether the EU should develop in a federal and supranational direction or whether cooperation should become a free trade area with intergovernmental political cooperation. Or are we going to have an EU at different speeds — or perhaps an ‘EU à la carte’ — where Member States can enter into commitment cooperation in the areas they choose? In addition, we have questions about the distribution of power between small and large member countries. How the EU chooses to organise will largely affect the future of Europe, not least when it comes to completing the process of linking Western and Eastern Europe. Whatever the form of association Norway has with the EU, the EU's future facility will require a number of adjustments on our part, and not least affect the kind of links we should have with our neighbourhoods in Europe. Not only the EU's internal relations, but also external relations will play an important role for us. I am thinking first and foremost of what kind of foreign policy actor the EU will become in the future, which the new EU constitution must address. Do we see a large, fragmented country with different agendas, or will the 27 Member States be able to act in a coordinated manner with one face outside? This could give the EU great international weight and influence. I have chosen to start with these general questions in order to stress that the further development of the EU, in terms of both internal and external relations, will be of great importance to Norway. As there is uncertainty about which way the European Union will go, I believe it is important to have an ongoing debate on our relationship with the European Union. The left here wants a broad, open and popular debate. We wish, among other things: to explain what opportunities and limitations the EU's further development gives us, and how we can enter into new partnerships with the EU, including: with regard to energy and in the north. Put in such a light, the Government's European Communication seems very limited in its perspective. In reality, the notification is an action plan explaining how the Government will work more effectively on EEA matters. Other fields of action, such as Schengen cooperation and security policy, are briefly referred to. The government shall be in favour of sharing its EEA action plan with Stortinget. However, I think it excels in its absence to shed light on the important and major trends associated with the EU. They will be much more able to determine the EEA Agreement and our cooperation with the EU in general than if we on the Norwegian side are getting a little better at dealing with EEA matters. I would like to mention that when Norway was allowed to implement a system of geographically differentiated employer fees, Norwegian influence was hardly due to Brussels, but that the new EU country Slovenia – with two million inhabitants – wanted this. The Red-Green Government created expectations as it announced in the Soria Moria Declaration that it would pursue an ‘offensive’ European policy. In the European Communication, the Government stresses that it is ‘ambisious’ in European policy. I believe that these expectations are not entirely met with the message. All Norwegian governments have, since the entry into force of the EEA Agreement, been aiming to make the best possible use of the possibilities offered by the Agreement. For the red-green government, it makes sense to continue such a line, and it shall have the propensity to take new steps which will undoubtedly improve the efficiency of the handling of EEA matters in the government apparatus, especially in addressing current matters at the earliest possible time in order to have the most effective influence on them. However, it is a long step from here to the rhetoric that suggests an ‘offensive’ and ‘ambitious’ European policy. With an intrepid EU opponent as a coalition partner, it would really be very alarming if the Government had managed to defend the use of these words. A positive effect of the notification is that it has initiated a process in which the Storting also looks at its treatment of EEA matters. In this work, I have been focusing on concrete actions that promote increased transparency, information on EEA matters at the earliest possible time, and to distinguish important and fundamental issues that require thorough political treatment in the Stortinget. In addition, the Government should continuously announce its EEA priorities to the Stortinget. The EEA reality of many Norwegian politicians is that they are regularly presented with a pile of EEA cases with a comprehensive dossier. This is mostly of a technical and bureaucratic nature, which makes it inconvenient for most people to get through the bunkers. As a result, a certain degree of automation has been achieved in dealing with EEA matters. The result is that a wide range of directives are incorporated into Norwegian laws and regulations without any real political treatment. In some cases, responsible politicians may in this way fail to take responsibility for the issues they support but for which they do not want to take political responsibility. This presents our people's government with great and new challenges. It has long been common to point to the EU in terms of having a democratic deficit, but this also affects us. The left has therefore been committed to the new measures that will make EEA work more open and accessible and strengthen the possibility of participation. Anyone affected by new EEA legislation should initially have the opportunity to make their views known — including those with small financial resources. As much as possible should be involved in debates on important EEA issues. Matters of great importance and fundamental importance should be raised and debated in this House in the Grand Duchy. Furthermore, the information provided by the Government to the EEA Grand Duchy on EEA matters should be organised in such a way as to quickly identify the overall political and principle aspects. We should no longer be overwhelmed with technical information. It should be handled by the appropriate professional body. I look forward to the involvement of the Scientific Committees in Stortinget more actively in EEA matters, including: by having the right of initiative and by strengthening the investigation capacity of the Storting itself in EEA matters. I would also like to point out the importance of information on EEA matters coming to Stortinget at the earliest possible time. It will then be possible to hold a meaningful debate on these before the policy-making process in Brussels is completed. Later in the process, when the legal acts are being completed, it is in most cases too late to have any impact on them. The left therefore agrees that the government’s outdoor apparatus needs to be more focused on catching up important issues at an early stage. In addition, the Grand Duchy should have its own presence in Brussels, with an official mission in relation to the European Parliament, corresponding missions from the parliaments of other Nordic countries. He/she should have the main task of notifying the Storting about important issues that may arise. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the fact that the parties at Stortinget have managed to create a common attitude to this message. It shows that there is broad agreement on the EEA Agreement. This underscores my point that the Government's European Communication is based on European policy led by previous governments. Consent and continuity are an important prerequisite for maximising the distribution of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e803	I would like to join those who praise the rapporteur and the committee for an important position. On a day like this, the Government may have reason to deal with questions that we are normally very careful about going into, namely, how the Storting organizes its work. But I am very pleased that this message has triggered the level of discussion and reflection in Stortinget that we see here, with very many concrete and important proposals that we welcome. It was an objective of the Government with the European message to stimulate such a discussion. I have felt that there has been an atmosphere in the EEA Committee in the meetings that have been there, and I believe it is important that the Committee has the capacity to present an overall position, and so do not let primary views on Norwegian membership of the EU overshadow. I think it is important for the Norwegian European debate in the time we are in now, that we actually have the opportunity to discuss various European policy issues without automatically putting them into a yes or no context. We've been doing that for a long time in this country. It's an important dimension, but it can't be the only one. When we presented the message, we initially stressed what this was, and what it was not. Some of the speakers in front of me have pointed out this, including the representative Larsen. I would like to say that we were very explicit on the fact that this was not a communication on Europe's broader trends, nor Norway's form of association with the EU. It was an attempt to focus on working on EEA matters, and I am glad that there have been so many thorough reflections. I therefore agree with Mr Bjørnstad's summary that we have a common basis here for a more offensive European policy. When I'm going to comment on it, I also want to say that we need to have a realistic starting point for what it is. There may be debates about our discussion about legal acts, which almost give the impression that we are a member, and that we should have a reality assessment of matters as if we were going to vote next week, as Swedish and Danish – in the Nordic region – do. We're not there. You can then regret or wish for happiness, a little depending on where you stand. But I think it is important that we now think through that the way we organize this work is really something that only we need to develop, because there are no role models in other countries. It's just us who are EEA countries the way we are. We can get inspiration from other member countries, but it's something special that underlies what we represent. The action plan is in progress and not the end of a process. Now it's up to us all to make this work in an interaction between government and greatness. At the centre is the objective of transparency and dialogue. We had the National European Forum last November, which gave the opportunity to debate on current issues. And I look forward to continuing that. I agree with the Committee's emphasis on strengthening the democratic anchoring of the process. It's central in our follow-up to the message, and it's about meetings and engagement for the wider Norwegian political and civil society. We want policy to become more visible and accessible. That is why we are going to produce an annual report with an overview of the activity. We are now working on the first report, which will be published on the so-called European portal during the spring. The half-yearly work programmes for the EEA — Justice and Home Affairs and Common Foreign and Security Policy — are actively monitored against our foreign stations and the EU delegation, and we are now updating the work programmes after the Commission and the Council presented their programmes just before Christmas. These will be posted on the portal in a short time. Then I fully share the wish, as shown in the setting, that Storting should also have access to this information. We will consider more closely which societal actors will be involved in the design of these programmes. Let me also remind you that we have had an assessment of Schengen in the communication, as announced in the Soria Moria Declaration. The review shows that the Norwegian authorities concerned experience the Schengen cooperation and other agreements in the field of justice and home affairs as being of practical importance in their everyday lives. At the same time, the review highlighted the need for increased coordination and coordination of management work in this field. And I would like to stress: we're going to fence around the arrangements we have, so we don't feel like we're being pushed into what's by decision-making processes. The Minister of Justice has managed the Schengen work this autumn. It is an important element of this cooperation that we have access to it. But it's not given that it can't come under pressure, and we have to resist that. This concerns systematic early warning work on EU/EEA matters. It's important that we are able to choose between what's important and what's not important, so we don't have to deal with a variety of things that aren't necessarily of political significance. Here we need to use the EEA Committee – several meetings on special issues and wider participation of other government councils. In cooperation with Stortingen, we will continue this practice. Then we hope to have an agenda reflecting the Committee's wish to be involved at an early stage through a thorough presentation of legislative proposals, participation in programmes and agencies, ESA cases and cases before the EFTA Court and the European Court of Justice. It is very positive that the Storting wants to involve the specialist committees more closely in the work on EU/EEA matters – I would like to say that. I believe that presentations made in the EEA Committee are more useful than, for example: large-scale messages, which will often appear as static and resource-intensive in relation to the developments that will take place in the cases and which will not allow representatives to engage in dialogue at an early stage. We want to add up to a change in the breakdown of the number of regulatory acts on the annotated list. This is technical, but it's in line with what's in the setting. I am in favour of the proposal to make half-yearly presentations on EU/EEA matters. We're going to have hope that it will find its shape. It is positive that the Stortinget engages more closely with the European Parliament – it is an important channel. I think maybe that's the institution of the EU system we've spent the least time and systematics on, and where we can get the most back if we make a power up there. The enlargement of the EU and its impact on the EEA have been mentioned. As I said briefly in my presentation earlier today, we will conclude those negotiations soon. Norway shall take its responsibilities jointly and severally in Europe. We will contribute to the inclusion of Romania and Bulgaria. There shall be no discrimination between the two countries and the other ten entered. However, as the rapporteur said, we cannot accept that there is a kind of dictatorship, that there are two lines below the sum of money that the European Union comes with. There are several ways to evaluate it. But no later than two days ago, I had a discussion with my Bulgarian colleague, and I think we should find a way of doing this. Finally, it is important that we in this Chamber find room for debate on Europe's development. In my presentation today, I stressed that we did not go into it there, because we were going to have this debate. But I feel a strong need for the next crossroads to come back and go deeper into it. In my view, enlargement of the EU is perhaps the EU's most important contribution to Europe's stability, order and democracy. I do not think we can overestimate the EU's importance in the Balkans with regard to potential new Member States, Serbia's integration, Kosovo – and, of course, with regard to Turkey's perspective. So going into the depths of what this EU is going to be – the EU that, in my opinion, did not choose depth along the lines that they had in the 94's paradigm with Maastricht and an increasingly stronger political union, but which has taken more action on a path that, in my view, makes this type of enlargement less realistic – is all the more important for Europe's development. We need to discuss the relationship with Europe in the north. Cooperation with European countries in the North Sea Strategy is central. The Nordic and European countries are our main partners. Here I would like to say that I am very positive about the close relationship we have with our Nordic neighbours, Sweden, Finland and Denmark. I feel that they maintain a sense of alertness for our vision. They report their interests, and they may be tough for us in some negotiations, but in terms of the overall political views of our part of Europe, it is important that we keep the Nordic up to date. I appreciate that the new Swedish government has shown so much interest in what is happening in the north. It's positive. We need Sweden's experience and knowledge with us. We have a maritime perspective in the northern regions, Sweden and Finland, but there is not a long way to go between inland and coastal areas, so we have ambitions to step up cooperation with Sweden and Finland on the North Region context. It also has something to say about our relationship with Russia. So there's a lot of questions to go on here. I hope that through this message and the setting, we will now have structured and strengthened the EEA work – it is important – and that we will also find room for the important European discussions, because that is this continent we belong to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e842	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e845	In the statement made earlier today by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, he referred to the joint enquiry that has come from the four opposition parties to obtain a statement on the Services Directive. I'll try to quote the Foreign Minister correctly. He said that you should come back to Stortinget in a «proper way» way. Now, at the same time, the Government by several crossroads has expressed openness and dialogue with the Storting, and when the four parliamentary leaders of the opposition ask for such an explanation, is it not natural to get it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e850	I think it was in a general statement I mentioned it. What I tried to inform you was that we have noticed the enquiry, which is of course taken in the greatest seriousness. The Prime Minister wanted me to use this statement to inform him that we have received it and that the time limit for the hearing opinions expires on 22 February. Then, of course, we will come back with a thorough answer to that enquiry, which will be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e857	Just this issue may affect a bit of the core of the whole setting, namely, if we are to have greater force in terms of impact on the EU, we need to be able to make decisions and have dialogue at an early stage. For us, it is a problem that the Government – with all the expertise it has – has not been able to tell us whether it means anything to Norwegian law, the EU Services Directive that has been in the process for more than two months now. I don't think there's going to be any speed in the EU's impact if we're going to have such a long treatment period on issues that have been treated on an ongoing basis, and that it should be possible to inform the Storting about at an earlier stage. Some of the core of this setting is that there will be no more transparency, better EU debate or anything else if the Government does not come up with its views on matters at an early stage. Then all the work we've been trying to do here will fall into fish, because then the entire Norwegian mandate for those who are going to influence will actually collapse.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e864	I notice this. I would like to say that the time for impact on the Services Directive has passed – it has been adopted. The government representative Solberg represented, ran his influence in writing, verbally and politically, and the government I represent has driven ours. I feel that here we have had debates and orientations in Stortinget – we can discuss whether it could be better – that have enabled us to stay within the deadlines. Now the directive is there. What we were concerned about, given that there was a great deal of commitment around it, was getting the results out at the hearing. Then we've felt that it's for the government to start giving certain statements and interpretations about what's there while central social actors are assessing this, is not natural. But the deadline is February 22. Then we have to sum up the statements, and come up with our assessment of them. In terms of the impact of the EU, secondary legislation will come into force. I believe that the directive itself is of limited importance. However, it is the adoption of other directives which will have an impact. That's where we're supposed to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e876	I am a little surprised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs now answering the question from the representative, Siv Jensen, and later the question from the representative, Erna Solberg. An overall opposition has taken this unanimous position seriously, it is permeated by the spirit that the Storting should be more involved in EEA matters. We have written a letter to the Government asking for an explanation here in the Chamber. And then the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on behalf of the Government, cannot make it clear that the Stortinget will receive the statement that an overall opposition has requested in a very central EEA case! I understand that the hearing will be awaited, but that deadline expires on 22 February. I expect the Foreign Minister now to confirm that, as soon as possible after 22 February, the Government will make a statement here in Stortinget, as the opposition parties have requested. It will be in the spirit of this committee setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e883	The representative of the Højbrätten shall not doubt that the Government is acting in line – and spirit – with a unanimous attitude. I think he has reproduced me in a very precise way when I say that after the hearing opinions have come, we will, in the light of that letter, come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e888	It is such that the case has a history, where you have been constantly asked for two months now to make a statement on the matter. I do not understand how it will be done before the deadline expires, but it presents us with a new topic of discussion: When the Government is so paralysed by internal unrest, as it is then evident in the Services Directive, how do we provide for an open and proper discussion? And is there anyone who can objectively guide the legal consequences of EU cases? What is the problem for most people now is that when the government's apparatus, which is the one that possesses all the skills in this country related to legal issues, because of political problems in the government, can provide the Storting with an answer to the consequences of the Services Directive, no one else can do so either. We've placed all the eggs one place, and it's in the office. They are now controlled by a government that does not think it is possible to fall on anything because one really disagrees on the issue of the free movement of services.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e895	I don't want to comment on Erna Solberg's comment on the Government's inner life – she must have the right to claim that. But there are more "eggs" than the government, and that's the "eggs" we're now trying to listen to – to find "eggs", which is what we're going to mean here. We've taken the big commitment seriously, sent out the result at the hearing, given a deadline that is long – longer than usual, I think – and February 22nd, the answers come in. Then we have to take the ball from there, and then we're going to make sure that it's going to be in an open and well-communicating way to both the Storting, the people who've made statements and society for the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e902	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e905	Let me first say that I have great confidence that the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government will come back to Stortinget in a proper way with the Services Directive, as with all other EEA/EU matters. There are differing views on Norway’s relationship with the EU, both between government parties and between opposition parties. It has also emerged here today. However, this does not prevent political Norway from being in agreement that we have to look after Norwegian interests towards the EU/EEA in a completely different and more offensive way than before. We must have an active, clear and open European policy, as the Government underlines in the Single European Act. We need to find better ways of cooperating with the EU within the framework of today's forms of association. It's a tough challenge – everyone knows it's tried. Many of us have been sitting at European meetings or at congresses and have felt that we are both out of voting power. I don't think we're always going to be as interesting. It's a challenge. However, the EU does not only take decisions that affect us in the Norwegian everyday life, whether in food and animal feed or in the Union Green Paper on energy. After the end of the cold war, Norway and our northern regions, for example, are no longer the navel of NATO, whether we like it or not. We are perceived as peripheral, the focus is quite different — including security policy — while the EU itself has developed its own defence and security policy. Through the Berlin plus agreement, the EU and NATO have concluded a strengthening agreement, for example: We see that the EU has also established so-called Battlegroups, and we have chosen to be part of a Nordic group under the leadership of Sweden, as part of these so-called Battlegroups. We also see that we are in danger of having a security policy dialogue across the Atlantic that becomes one-sided between the EU and Washington. For us, it is of course important to have an ‘intendence’ also in the EU, not only in the context of NATO security policy, and it requires active policies both bilaterally in the individual capitals and towards the EU. At the same time, Northern Region policy is now our prime strategic focus. Here, Norway is dependent on — as the foreign minister also mentioned — having strong alliances with the EU and with European countries. In addition, of course, EU countries are Norway’s main trading partners. It is important for the breadth of Norwegian interests that there is a unanimous committee that emphasises both our opportunities for influence and a better democratic anchoring of the processes. I'm not going to go into detail about this. That's what all the speakers have done before me. But I want to add one thing, because I think it represents a milestone in Norwegian European policy: a unanimous foreign committee believes that the EU has played an important, stabilising role in Europe over the last half century. The Committee says: ‘The EU has influenced and promoted democracy in many previous dictatorships and continues to have a positive impact on the democratic development of several countries through its enlargement’. Whatever the kind of primary position that each party had to have in relation to our relationship with the EU, represents the enlargement of the EU with ten new countries in 2004 and another two now, perhaps the greatest solidarity promise in Europe since the Marshall Plan, and is, of course, an important contribution to a more peaceful and more stable Europe. Europe has once again become a continent, with its own self-confidence, integrity and strong internal cohesion. Together with NATO enlargement, EU enlargement is now the guarantee of the continued development of democracy, human rights and social cohesion in former Eastern Europe. The incentive for well-being, human rights and democracy in countries that, after the end of the Cold War, may have gone from extreme to extreme, is now linked to Europe. The way back to the political centre, with the diversity and combination of market forces and welfare states, where democracy also involves governance and mitigation, is now guaranteed by EU membership. In the end, I just want to stress that we're talking about our neighborhood. This is where we are primarily supposed to take care of interests, because this is happening right outside our living room door.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e935	This is a historic day! Today, an aggregate increase suggests that EEA-related issues should be addressed much earlier, more thorough and more open than practices have been at present. The Soria Moria Declaration sets out a more active European policy. The government's follow-up can be found in St.meld. No 23 for 2005-2006. All of us who have pointed out how subdued and uncritically different governments have been facing the EU were getting good help from the Riksrevision last year. In a separate report, the Riksrevision concluded that the management of EEA matters in the government apparatus has been irresponsibly bad. Three departments were examined. The conclusion was inter alia: that Norway has been far too late to influence. It was also said that the departments had too little competence and then sent ‘juniors’ to Brussels. In addition, the National Audit Office pointed out that external actors, for example: voluntary organisations, to a small extent, were recruited and listened to. The centre party is watching St.meld. No 23 as one climb. We are occupied with a living democracy, with open debates and popular governance at all levels. Of course, today's attitude can also be characterised as a defensive strategy against an agreement we are actually opposed to, but we consider greater openness and right of initiative in EEA matters primarily as a clear modernisation of our people's rule. It is also an emphasis on the responsibility of Stortinget in a globalised value. A balance is required between giving up sovereignty on issues that need to be resolved globally and national obligations and challenges that need to be resolved locally. There, Norway will and will have a self-contained voice. Now, the Government presents an action plan to ensure clear and timely priorities, good coordination and exploitation of opportunities, good implementation and management of commitments, raising skills, openness and dialogue. The Central Party regards the Foreign Affairs Committee's attitude as a new uproar. A comprehensive committee is in charge of reforming Norwegian business management, including the Stortinget’s own management of EEA matters. Over time, we have had a strong commitment to getting the Storting involved in EEA-related matters in the past and more clearly. Now means a gathering foreign committee just that. I myself experienced it in the previous period as frustrating suddenly to get a case to the municipal committee where the government had already decided that some directive would be implemented, even after a deadline that was about to expire. Asking questions about the consequences of the Norwegian implementation was too late, and it was, of course, considered inappropriate. The solid EEA selection had been in the image before, but it has been a closed body. From now on, the Foreign Minister will provide regular, half-yearly, open information on developments in the EU. The size shall be provided with information on proposals for new legal acts, EU programmes, green papers, white papers and other important initiatives in the EU at the earliest possible stage. The role of their professional committees shall be strengthened. They, and not the EEA Committee, shall deal with matters which naturally fall within the scope of the Committee. The Foreign Affairs Committee calls on the Presidency of the United Kingdom to encourage the Permanent Committees to take initiatives on their own to follow specific EEA and EU-related issues over time. There is a reason to give the case spokesman, Erna Solberg, the honor for her efforts with this setting. From the first day, the government has shown a much more offensive attitude than the previous one to what can be achieved with closer dialogue with the EU. Examples are the reintroduction of a differentiated employer’s fee and the understanding of the EU Commission for the institution of repatriation. The Soria-Moria Declaration states that the Government will not apply for EU membership. Today, the Government is fully supported by an enlightening and constructive international cooperation based on today’s association. But there are challenges in the near future. The Services Directive is one of them. I found the Minister of Foreign Affairs very fine today to have confirmed that when the hearing period is over, the Government will return to the Stortinget on that matter, and today's decision must mean that the Stortinget there will be properly and properly involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e958	Finally, today we have a European debate that is less marked by two counter-polars that strike each other in the head with strongly polarized arguments, but which is instead about how Norway's European policy can best be pursued, regardless of its view of membership. Nevertheless, I believe that there is a paradox that, as a nation, we are striving to connect closely to the EU's decision-making processes when, through two referendums, the country has chosen to stand outside the EU politically – that is, a clear refusal to influence. But I'll leave it now. In the autumn of 1994, in front of the referendum, I attended a seminar on Norway and the EU under the direction of the Institute for Journalism. An official from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs started on Norway’s relationship with the EU, i.e. to live with the EEA Agreement if it did not. He expressed concern about the lack of focus on the democratic deficit in the EEA, and a concern about how we as democracy could live with all the directives we had to implement, without formal influence. It impressed me at the time, and every day since then this weakness with the EEA has become increasingly apparent. Today this is an established truth, but where yes- and no-side have different answers. The work on securing as much influence as possible in the EU goes on with this setting. This has a unanimous committee clearly, because everyone has put the issue of membership aside and done what we have a certain tradition of in Norwegian policy – with the exception of the EU case – namely to approach a sensitive political area in a slightly more pragmatic way. The strength of both the European Communication and this position lies in many concrete clarifications of what to do: half-yearly presentations, a much more important role for the Standing Committees when their policy areas are concerned, transparency in the EEA Committee, etc. I'm not going to make all the suggestions. All this is very good. In addition to what is adopted with this position, I hope it will also be a reality that the Grand Duchy will send a delegation to Brussels to strengthen its knowledge of the EU and develop a contact network within the party groups in the European Parliament. That's good for the Foreign Affairs Committee, but I hope it'll be something as soon as possible. The EU was originally a foreign policy tool for the EU Member States in Europe. Today, many areas have traditionally been seen as domestic policies, which are EU policies. Many of the directives we are so good at implementing affect most of Norway today. Differences between domestic and foreign policies are increasingly being eliminated. Then it's dangerous to keep these labels too much alive, because it seduces us into thinking that it's only Secretary of State Jonas Gahr Støre in the Government that has to deal with EU issues. But all his colleagues are probably as many EU ministers as he is. The labels also seduce us to believe that the EEA Committee and the EEA Committee have sole responsibility for the EU in Stortinget. However, the truth is that all committees and representatives should be much more closely involved in the development of issues that are important to Norway. And we should all be far earlier out if we want power. Many thought and perhaps hoped that a no in 1994 also said no to be active in Europe. Something like that is utopia. We're part of Europe. EU policy affects Norway every day, and we must be open to it. Nevertheless, I dare say that the no-the became a sleeping cushion for most. Media, organisations, politicians — in short, the public in Norway — are a bit too casual about Europe. This unanimous stance wants to counter this by means of concrete proposals, which is a long step in the right direction towards a more active European policy. This is unconditionally good. My only point of appeal is that we had to do this a long time ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e979	Greater transparency, more debate and certainly clearer lines of conflict – there are likely to be the results of changes resulting from the Government’s desire for a more active, clear and transparent European policy. The Foreign Affairs Committee's proposal for changes to work on EEA matters here on the house also leads us in the same direction. I see some media comments as amazement at the broad consensus of the Committee on Foreign Affairs' position on European policy. The Committee itself explains this consensus in its emphasis on the fact that we are not now dealing with a communication on the form of association with the EU, but on the forms of work we need to develop in a situation where it is not appropriate to discuss membership. It's not long since we heard from the Right that 2007 would be the year when the question of membership would be raised again. I read the setting as a clear statement that it is no longer a current policy. Therefore, we can gather on how EEA matters should be given a broader and more democratic anchor in the work of the Government and the Storting. In the case of the Centre Party, there has been a long-standing ambition to strengthen EEA work. Through the Soria Moria Declaration, we have committed ourselves to living with the EEA Agreement, even though it intervenes in more and more areas in the formation of Norwegian society. However, we must recognise that in today's political situation, the EEA Agreement is the form of association with the European Union with which we must find ourselves living. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his speech that it is important that, within the framework of the EEA Agreement, we should be able to create the best possible room for influence in the areas of the EU covered by the agreement, and that it is important that the Storting should be able to gather on this, regardless of the primary position in the debate on the desired form of association with the EU at some point in the future. I agree. The debate has also addressed the process of our national treatment of the Services Directive in this context. With the emphasis on the need for transparency expressed both by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and by the Grand Duchy, I look forward to the conclusion of the ongoing round of consultations, we are spending time on a thorough debate on the implications of the various elements of the directive for Norwegian society. I expect that the Government has also noticed the desire to actively participate by providing the basis for that debate. The Government’s objective is to improve Norway’s use of the possibilities and to ensure impact in areas of importance, the Communication states. That is why it also states that Norway should participate constructively and clearly in Schengen, in the European agencies, in research and in the field of foreign policy. The involvement of the Scientific Committees on the EEA, the transparency of the work of the EEA Committee and the six-monthly debates following statements by the Minister for Foreign Affairs also give this House a more offensive role in the management of the EEA Agreement. It is necessary in view of the importance of the EEA Agreement for the development of our society, it is necessary to have a more offensive approach to how or whether to implement all EEA-relevant legislation and, in particular, it is necessary to have an offensive commitment during the EU's work on developing its policies that will fall within the framework of the EEA and Schengen Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e994	There are aspects to this setting which make it possible to later be described as a time separation in the Norwegian European debate. One is that it draws up a new way of dealing with EEA-related issues here in the Stortinget. This will mean that the political debate in many important areas will need to include the European dimension of cooperation. The fact that the Scientific Committee will be more closely involved in the examination of proposals for new directives and other key policy documents from the Commission will mean that we need to have more of our attention turned to the comprehensive policy formulation of EU cooperation. The interest in this debate underlines the need. This will, for example: had to end our somewhat limping environmental debate, which does not take into account that 70-80 pst. new environmental legislation in the last ten years has had its origins in Brussels and not in Myntgata. To date, this fact has not been particularly reflected, either in the environmental debate here in the house or outside. It is also a weakness in today's mode of treatment that such an important document for the energy policy of the future in our continent as the Green Paper on an environmentally friendly and safe energy supply in Europe has not been the focus of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. EU cooperation also affects Norway in almost all areas. We are part of the internal market and must accept the rules on which the EU countries agree. We are part of the Schengen cooperation, and we are part of a wide range of cooperation programmes – in which we would not have had to participate at all, but in which we would like to participate, because we see ourselves serving it – whether it be research programmes, education programmes, energy programmes or health programmes. It is high time that the Storting also connects to the policy-making flow that is taking place in EU cooperation – simply because it is largely about the same challenges that we face here at home. There can then be many good ideas to pick up, even in areas where, as an EEA country, we do not have to follow what the EU countries agree on. One such example, as SVs Heidi Sørensen has pointed out, is the objective of a certain incorporation of biodiesel into the fuel. This option suggests that the Committees of the United Nations should be much more focused on what is happening in EU cooperation than they have at present. It is important, also in order to contribute to a wider debate on the framework and opportunities of European cooperation for our national policy-making. The second relationship that should represent a time gap in the Norwegian European debate is that both the yes and no parties are united in the fact that EU cooperation has played an important, stabilising role in Europe in the last 50 years and has had a positive impact on the democratic development of several states through its enlargement. An overall increase recognises in this position that it is important for Norway to participate in the many parts of EU cooperation in which we are involved and that it is important that we take advantage of the opportunities we have under the EEA and Schengen agreements to influence the decisions. Yes, in the case of Schengen, it is even regrettable that we are being excluded from police cooperation, because it is now being integrated into the EU and has therefore been moved from the Schengen framework. That's the cost of wanting to join without wanting to be a member! The Norwegian EU debate has long been marked by the fact that everything is interpreted into a yes or no to full Norwegian membership. There has been a debate that has split. Secondly, it should be possible to debate how our cooperation with the EU countries, in the internal market, in the Schengen Agreements and in all the programmes in which we participate can help to make it easier for us, too, to meet the challenges we face. Most of these challenges are shared with our European neighbours. And that is what EU cooperation is all about – better meeting the challenges of globalisation, whether it be economic or environmental, pandemics or cross-border crime. The most important job needs to be done in each country, but cooperation should be a contribution — sometimes a crucial contribution — to the success of the 500 million. the people involved in this important and innovative cooperation. There is still a different view in this room of the need for full Norwegian membership, with two yes-parties and four no-parties. However, it is valuable that this setting is based on the recognition of the value of EU cooperation for a positive development of Europe. It is valuable that all parties are united that Norway must take on the basis of the fact that 27 European countries have chosen the EU as their form and framework for cooperation, when we need to cooperate on the challenges we share with our neighbours. That is why we are now much more involved in EU cooperation than we were when we said no to membership in 1994. Then it is good for realism in the debate on how best to safeguard our interests towards our European neighbours that this fact is recognised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e1029	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3 and 4. [[Footing, see page 1897]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e1037	Then Stortinget will vote in case No. 2–4 on today’s map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-02-13.ana.ud269e1130	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
