ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e32	The representative Anne Margrethe Larsen, who has been licensed, has once again taken up his seat. The following permit applications are available: from the representatives of Thore A. Nistad and Finn Martin Vallersnes on leave from 19 March to 21 March, both to take part in the Nordic meeting of the Interparliamentary Union in Reykjavik from the Socialist Left-wing Group on the leave of the representative Heikki Holmås on 19 and 20 March to attend the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO in London from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Birth of Per Sandberg, from 19 March to 31 March On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For Uppland County: Morten Ørsal JohansenFor Oslo: Ingunn GjerstadFor Rogaland County: Siri A. Meling For South Trøndelag County: Hanne Dyveke Søttar3. Morten Ørsal Johansen and Siri A. Meling are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives of Thore A. Nistad and Finn Martin Vallersnes respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e85	Morten Ørsal Johansen, Ingunn Gjerstad, Siri A. Meling and Hanne Dyveke Sweets are present and will take their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e91	The President will propose the election of three presidents of the Stortinges meetings today and the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Kenneth Svendsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr and Kenneth Svendsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of the current week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e111	Propositions will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e125	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three replies be given within the allocated speaking time following members of the Government’s posts. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e134	As they have done before, the party has now submitted proposals to sell the NRK and to remove the licence application. The rationale is, as before, the scope of competition in the radio and television industries. I will come closer to it after a while. The other parties have a diametrically different view of the meaning of the NRK. We are all some about how important it is with a free and independent press, and how important it is that the NRK, like others, has a free position editorialally. But we mean, unlike the Progress Party, that we need a strong public broadcaster. We think it's important to have an NRK that takes care of and develops Norwegian language and culture. The NRK is the country's largest and most important recruitment agency, and they have a responsibility to offer programs to all parts of the population, as well as where we live, whether we are young or old, whether we represent different minorities. The NRK takes care of a lack of expression and communication that is important. I don't see the setting that the Progress Party doesn't realize that it's possible to be busy with these relationships while we're occupied with a cultural defect. Well, we're not going to take that debate here today, but I'm just going to say that this is and will be the same thing. Making artificial dividing lines is wrong. Cultural expressions play together. They have done so, and they are still going to do so – the same amount of damage to the Advance Party. We would have a narrower programme offer, less variation and more uniformity if we had not had what the NRK we have today – simply because taking only commercial considerations will not ensure access to the narrow or economically unprofitable programmes, the type of programme that we as a cultural nation also depend on good access to. We don't need competition to ensure that. We need a strong public broadcaster to do that. I want to add that I mean the commercial channels also place greater emphasis on high quality and lack of competition with the NRK. It would be gone if we were to sell the NRK, as the Progress Party here suggests. I'm not surprised that the Progress Party doesn't understand it, but we also have to bear in mind that in Norway there is a very limited advertising market, that there are today many television channels that fight hard about advertising revenue, and that putting a giant like the NRK out on the same market would be the same as destroying many of the advertising-funded channels we have today, in addition to weakening the quality of the NRK, of course. We would also have a limited number and a poorer quality on Norwegian television. The Government shall soon submit a general broadcasting notification of its own. She will be based on what we say in the Soria Moria Declaration, which states that we will ‘retain the NRK as licence-funded, advertising-free public broadcasters and continue the role of the NRK as media of culture, language and national identity’. Consequently, there is probably no prospect that the Progress Party would receive support for the proposal to remove the licence. On the other hand, there are very good prospects that we will also have a good, advertising-free NRK in the future. It is gratifying to see that there is still a broad and cross-political dissension about the importance of the NRK and the role of the NRK in Norwegian cultural life, and that it should be passed on. The party of progress is alone in its view that the NRK is a well-suited salesman. Therefore, the opinion of the Committee is that the proposal should be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e166	Today, we are discussing a proposal from the Progress Party on a split-up and a sale of the NRK and a gradual winding-up of the NRK licence scheme. We had not in the Progress Party expected this proposal to go smoothly through the Storting and be adopted with a loud applause, but we had at least hoped that the political majority would use the matter to think a little bit new, come up with some new ideas and visions and perhaps express some understanding for the many who actually do not use the NRK's offer, but who are nevertheless forced to pay for this offer. We must note that we were too optimistic. Here it is chemically purified for new thoughts and visions and for critical comments in relation to the licensing system, which is actually a compulsory subscription to the NRC. The only thing they say they agree with the proposers is that it is important to facilitate a free and independent press, and that this is a prerequisite for democracy, freedom of expression and our society of justice. This is nice to hear. But there is no free and independent press where the largest content provider is a state owned and coercive funded mastodont with more than NOK 3 billion in operating grants and thousands of employees. For many years, the NRK had a monopoly on the broadcasting of television and radio. This monopoly has gradually been dismantled, and today there is a flora of local and national radio stations and several nationwide commercial television channels. These changes were met with considerable resistance at the beginning, but after a long battle one won. We now have a functioning market for both television and radio in Norway. However, competition in the industry is hampered by the fact that the market is largely dominated by the former state monopoly. Through the licence, the NRK has a source of revenue that is largely protected from fluctuations. In a free society, it may be difficult to be a public task to engage as a content provider in media activities. We believe that the public should focus on what is important – the primary tasks. The question is simple: are we going to focus on delivering the New, Mina and Hiphop in P3 and easier entertainment with Shavlan, or are we going to focus on hospital services, care and police security services? If we look at the current government's work so far, it seems as if you have more focus on protecting the NRK than the hospital departments around Norway. The Progress Party believes that the public should sell out of the NRK media. Whether the NRK is to be sold in full or in part is an open question but should also be the subject of a debate in relation to competition in the market. I notice that in its defence of a state-funded NRK, the majority is promoting the role of the NRK in caring for and developing Norwegian culture and language. The majority claim that it is important that the role of the NRK as mediated by culture, language and identity is respected. It is more comical that this view is presented by the same parties that seem to be more concerned with foreign cultural and multicultural expressions and criticises the Progress Party for wanting to promote and preserve Norwegian culture and identity. Of course, it is important to take care of Norwegian culture, identity and language, but we are convinced that even private providers will find it interesting to offer such programmes. The Norwegian population will always demand quality programmes in Norwegian. Similarly, there will always be a market for good supply to children and young people, the elderly and different minorities. For example, as evidence of this, look at what the cable company Get offers: here are Arabic channels, a large number of channels with quality papers, news, old movies, children’s channels – even children’s channels without advertising – etc. There is also a concern about local services, districts, etc. This is a market that can easily be taken over by local providers. Local radio and television stations are currently experiencing considerable wear and tear, including: due to the enormous resources of the NRK. In today’s market, an enterprise with two to three employees cannot compete with NRK’s district offices, for example. 50 to 60 employees and free access to licence fees. I also have to say that I find it interesting that the majority believes that competition between NRK and other television channels contributes to the quality of the programme offer. This must be a logical flaw. It has to be the same regardless of who owns the NRK, or regardless of how the NRK is financed. With that, I would like to include in the vote the proposal of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e192	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e195	The proposal from the Progress Party is primarily motivated by the fact that you will get rid of the TV licence. So that's how it goes into a series of proposals that go in that direction. The right does not see any real alternative to licensing now – without having to be square with regard to how the NRK is to be financed. The option had to be to finance NRK over the State budget. We believe that this gives a greater dependence on the state and a little too tight ties – in relation to bands that may already be close enough, but that we do not see any real alternative solution. Now, if you're going to think that you're going to go the road of the Advance Party, so cut up the NRK to sell out – and I understand the proposers to that point that you think you can actually sell most when it comes to the deal, just give you a little time – we have little faith that there's some good way to do it. Firstly, it will dramatically worsen the income base of an overall Norwegian media offer. We saw that quite well when we opened up to Channel 24. It was based on Storting's desire to get another nationwide radio channel, in addition to P4. We have seen in retrospect that they have fought in the same advertising market, and that it has been a very, very tough fight. There is no doubt that the foundation for creating good radio in this case, but if you expand this: the foundation for making good television, together, becomes much, much worse. So it's the way with the market and media that media-driven channels will be located where the market has the greatest gravity, and that means in a kind of the middle. We see that in all kinds of media, including on the radio and the newspaper page. This means that there's a mechanism where you're going to have a greater equality in programme production. We see that from countries that have many channels. If you go to Italy, you can browse through 70, maybe 80, TV channels. So that's to a small extent, unfortunately, the great diversity. It's probably the big one. We don't want to have it like that. The fact that the NRK is a positive player in terms of competition on quality, I think it's pretty easy to understand. The NRK has a good back to make good programs. This means that those who are going to compete with them also have to invest at a relatively high level of quality in order to actually compete. When we look at e.g. TV 2's film profile and TV 2's attitude to advertising breaks in movies, we see that TV 2 is hesitating to post more and more advertising breaks in movies. That's what we've looked at hearing opinions when we've had that kind of rules up. It's just that they're competing with the NRK. We think the NRK will become more important in the years that come, because we live in a time when we're going to depend in a completely different way on the breadth of content production within media that's very changing. In a few years – and that is not long longer – we know that content online, whether it has been transferred to our mobile phone or to other dolls that we might have with us, will be completely fused with content that is television-produced or radio-produced or produced for other platforms. If we are to have a Norwegian cultural home track in the future, we are dependent on having good and much – not least much – home-produced substance, and I mean Norwegian-produced substance. Then we need some real bulldozers, we need someone with strong back that can go ahead in that work. Then we need big actors, as the NRK is. We think that we should rather look at how we can use the NRK to increase Norwegian home production, also considering cultural policy considerations more than just opinion policy in relation to news and media, which is much of the basis for having the NRK. We also believe that cultural policy considerations and desires will be stronger. So it's not that it's easy to fund children's programs. You can buy them for a few hundred dollars a minute from abroad. It is difficult to produce for in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e212	The NRC has an important role to play in the preservation and development of Norwegian culture and languages. The role of the NRC as the intermediary of culture, language and identity must be safeguarded and it must be further developed. The NRK is able to offer a programme offer that commercial channels are less willing and able to offer. The NRC can offer a wider range of radio and television services to its citizens, which is why it is so important that we facilitate and ensure a strong public broadcaster. This is particularly important to ensure a good supply to children and young people, the elderly and different minorities. The NRC shall, as a public broadcaster, offer a programme offer to all parts of the population throughout the country. Local news is important, and the decentralised structure of the NRK helps to ensure local programme entries from different parts of the country on both radio and television. Splitting and selling down NRKs will weaken access to local programme entries in poor-earning parts of the country due to low population density. A broadcasting market managed only for commercial reasons will not provide a good enough range of narrow and unprofitable programmes. A licence-funded public broadcaster may offer a different programme profile from the advertising-funded channels. And then competition between NRK and other television channels has also generally contributed to the quality of the programme offer both for the commercial channels and for the NRK. Loss of the NRC licensing system is likely to lead to a reduction in the supply to the population. Several channels will have to be reduced, and the quality will be impaired, because in Norway we do not have a large enough advertising market, which has been in the hands of previous speakers. I would also like to stress the importance of the great commercial pressure on children and young people. The fact that you have a non-advertising option that you can choose is very important. SV wants a strengthened NRK, a NRK that is an advertisement-free alternative, of high quality, and that shows a diversity. SV therefore opposes the winding-up of the licensing system and the fragmentation and sale of the NRK. But finally, I would like to stress that SV agrees with the proposers that it is important to facilitate a free and independent press. It is a prerequisite for democracy, freedom of expression and our society of justice. We believe the NRK is in on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e223	Today, the Storting deals with a bill from the Progress Party dealing with the fragmentation and downsal of the NRK and the liquidation of licence-funded public broadcasting. The party's visions for the NRK give associations to American media policy, where deregulation and commercialisation are the main headlines for development. Advertising aimed at children increases the purchasing pressure and reinforces traditional gender roles. So it's no surprise that the United States is one of the least equal countries in the Western world. Commercial TV has profited as its main objective. The programme is tailor-made and produced to reach the target group targeted by advertisers. Unlike that, the NRK's slogan "Something for All" signals. Always» means its goal: to serve all Norwegian TV viewers as citizens and voters, not primarily as consumers. A broadcasting market that is driven only by commercial considerations would not provide a good supply of narrow and economically unprofitable programmes. The NRK’s high quality of production also contributed to other commercial channels placing greater emphasis on good quality production and a lack of programme provision in competition with the NRK. I would like to underline the importance of good programming for all parts of the population across the country of NRK as a public broadcasting organisation. In a small language community such as Norway, the NRK has an important role to play in caring for and developing Norwegian culture and languages. The NRK can develop and deliver a software offering that commercial channels will be less capable of doing. There is reason to believe that this provides a wider range of radio and television services for the inhabitants. In order to ensure a good supply of children and young people, the elderly and different minorities, the NRC and the current funding of the NRC are important to take care of. When Melodi Grand Prix Junior was to be arranged last, the NRK and the other Nordic state channels put the foot down for the proposed program profile. This led to a separate Nordic version of Melodi Grand Prix Junior, where the children who participated did not sit in a bikini with a lot of makeup, but had children on the kids' premises even if they participated in a TV-send song competition. Fortunately, the party of progress is alone in Stortinget not to see the significance of an unadvertised public broadcast. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that in future we must also ensure television programmes that take care of the TV viewers and the participants as citizens and voters, not just as consumers. On the basis of this, the Christian People's Party does not support the proposals in Document No. 8:11 from the Advance Party on the splitting and sale of NRK and the winding-up of the television licence system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e246	The centre party is aware that Norwegian National Broadcasting is being held up as a public broadcaster and makes it possible to evolve before today's regime. For the Central Party, the role of the NRK is mediated by a lack of cultural expression and an active user of Norwegian language is decisive for our attitude to the NRK. The licence funding ensures that the NRK can fulfil the role of a broad political majority to have them. There is no reason to believe that a conversion of the NRK from licence funding to advertising funding, as the Progress Party now proposes, would result in the emergence of new potential revenues from advertising, corresponding to the NRK’s market share. Rather, there's reason to believe that the NRK would have to compete to a large extent for the same advertising crowns as the other channels, which would lead to less lack of the overall software supply than what we have today. The NRK shall provide a good programme throughout the country as a public broadcaster. The decentralised structure of the NRK has been selected through the investment in the district offices, helping to secure local programme entries from the different parts of the country on both radio and television. Local news is important for identity building, and it gives people a better opportunity to get news, reporters and cultural insights from their own neighbourhood. Licensing also helps to ensure the supply of different age groups, such as children and the elderly, and to minority groups. Let me also add the independent value. It's that we have a medium that takes the majority of its income from sources other than advertising revenue. According to the Center Party, this has great value in a society that has an overfocused on increased material consumption. We also want to stress from the Center Party that we are going to have a free and independent press, and we do not agree that a strong public broadcaster based on the model we have in Norway today is in conflict with this. In the proposal we are dealing with here today, the proposer, the Progress Party, is easily aware of his ideology. The underlying thing is the ideology in which market governance has become a goal in itself, and not a means of achieving the baseless political goals. It is obvious that there are no references to the frequent meetings of the Progress Party that come with it in the door. When Stortinget handles the year of shortages, the Progress Party warmly talks about the importance of securing Norwegian culture, cultural heritage and Norwegian language. At the same time, they want to weaken the responsibility for dissemination by the NRK for culture, language and national identity. The party of progress is often standing on this pulpit and is very much talking about the freedom of choice. At the same time, we want a political solution that will reduce the number of programmes available. This is simply not consistent, and this is one of the things that shows the highest priority of the Progress Party when it comes to choosing between the objectives in the field of culture and the goal of greater market governance. We believe that the Progress Party's proposals could lead to a weakening of the supply in the thinly populated areas of the country. This will mean that the NRK will be less able to offer what they lack in programme provision and less able to fill their role as a medium to address cultural and Norwegian language gaps.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e263	Now the vast majority of people today have started their article by telling me what this case is about, so I have to do what I do, too, to keep the tradition – it's about licensing and the public broadcasting role. The left’s position on the general broadcasting role is that it is more important today than when the NRC was established – not only for the dissemination of language and culture, but also as a universal institution in society. One would really think that with the media diversity we have today, this role would be less important, but in the Left's view it is more important. Having a media house like the NRK, which has the role of communicating not only language and culture, but also giving meaning challenges, challenges for all of us in relation to the already ingested opinions, is something to strive for – even if we in this house have slightly different opinions if you can do it. An objectivity must be sought in which this can be discussed at all times. This role is much more important in a society where you can choose and choose between media and different information channels than in a society where you only had one. Therefore, I believe that the proposal that the Progress Party has is to go backwards into the future, or to have a slightly profitable dream that Norway is really the United States. We're not. We have a tiny little language and a tiny little culture, and we absolutely need someone to have this role in our society. What I'm asking for is how a public broadcasting role will be in the media community of the future, where we go in and choose the different information channels that we use in each medium. While the NRK has had a role in showing us both classical music, rock, jazz, etc., in the future we will be able to choose away everything we don't like, including at NRK, which means that the universal role becomes much more challenging in future societies than it has been until now. This is quite a consensus. So to the licensing system, where I think most people have gone a little backwards into the debate. The left wants to wind up today's licensing system – not according to the desire of the Progress Party to just remove it, but we want to pay either through the tax bill or find another way to collect what is perceived as more fair than one household, one tax. We want something more forward-looking than the somewhat old-fashioned idea that a type of technical medium, located in the form of a box or a flat screen inside a house, should lead to a fee, and that you have a fee that is fairer – depending on whether you are ten in the household and have ten TVs, or if there is one minimum pensioner who has TV. I disagree with the Advancement Party. I think we have a lot of things we pay for in society that we don't necessarily use. I believe that a public broadcaster is something we're involved in paying because our society as a whole needs it. I believe that most people should be involved in paying, but then there should have been a fairer collection and a more up-to-date technological collection. Today, we can use the possibilities that this newshouse has, both on computers, on mobile phones – or any technical medium in the future. To charge the fee only on the basis of the television set is a rather old-fashioned form of charging a fee. In addition, when you have a collection center that is perhaps the toughest thing we have, which counts ear from the minute you've paid in too late, this creates a lot of resistance to a public broadcaster, a resistance that we really didn't need. So I would have liked us to have had an open debate about how the license will be required in the future -- maybe it would be made a little more fairer tax, where we can pay for having an important cultural institution in Norway, as it is a public broadcaster. With that, I would like to address the Left's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e278	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e282	The representatives Knudsen and Woldseth have proposed to split up and sell the NRK, gradually abolish the broadcasting fee and negotiate new contingency agreements with the broadcasters. In my view, the proposal is marked by a belief that the market will automatically produce the best result for society. Competition can be healthy and useful in many areas, but in the field of culture it is sometimes necessary to complement other instruments. There is nothing to suggest that a broadcasting market that was run only for commercial reasons would have produced a good offer of narrow and ‘unprofitable’ programmes. The NRC and the broadcasting charge are public measures aimed at correcting the ‘market failure’ that would occur in an unregulated market. With the digitisation of television, the television offer will be even more marked by pay-TV and increased competition. Broadcasters will be even more active than they are today in a mass market. As a result, it is even more important in the future to ensure that diversity and the extent of the NRC currently represents. In my response to the proposal, I have pointed out that there is a stable and broad upsurge in Stortingen to maintain the NRK as a licensed public broadcaster. This is also established in the Soria Moria Declaration by the following wording: ‘The Government will maintain NRK as licence-funded, advertising-free public broadcasting and continue the role of the NRK as media of culture, language and national identity.’ [[...]] The media market is very complex. In my view, we currently have a good balance between public action and private-funded activities that ensure diversity, opportunities for expression, the consideration of Norwegian languages and cultural expressions. The proposal to split and privatise the NRK and abolish the broadcasting fee would destroy this balance and create greater competition for revenue from advertising and subscriptions. A lapse of the licensing system will probably weaken the economic base of all broadcasters in Norway. As a result, parts of today’s radio and television services are likely to fall away, so that the public is given a reduced offer and a lower quality. In the long term, much of the breadth and quality of the offer that viewers and listeners today enjoy will disappear. I am convinced that the offer to, among other things, children, older people, different minorities and cohabitants would be weakened and eliminated without public intervention. In no case is it likely that the market for television advertising will increase to such an extent as to offset the loss of licence revenue. Loss of the licence will mean that NRK activities will need to find alternative sources of funding. There is little evidence that the advertising market will be able to carry a number of new advertising-funded radio and television channels. Therefore, NRK’s competitors in the radio and television markets do not want a fragmented and privatised NRK either because it will significantly weaken their income opportunities. Nevertheless, it is important that NRK’s general broadcasting activities are continuously adapted to market conditions in a way that ensures good framework conditions for commercial broadcasters. However, this cannot prevent the NRK from offering content which commercial broadcasters also cover. The legitimacy of the NRK depends on the appearance of the offer as attractive and relevant to the public. We have a good opportunity to discuss this issue and others in the context of the announcement of public broadcasting that the Government is promoting in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e302	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e305	Governments are of those who are known as an avid follower of ever-increasing license fees to the NRK. In the last five to six years, we have received several demands from the NRC for requested increases in the licence. The revenues of the NRK are now well over NOK 3 billion, and you have 3,000 employees. It is, of course, impossible for local radio stations or TV stations with two to three employees to compete with NRK’s 50 to 60 licence-funded persons. The main point is that the license has passed a couple of thousand dollars. My questions to the Council of State are: What, in his view, is an appropriate level of stopping licence increases? What are they going to stop at - $4,000, $5000? When did the NRK get enough dollars over the licensing system?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e312	The licence is something that the Stortinget is given the opportunity to discuss and adopt in relation to each year’s budget, but in recent years the licence has substantially increased with price increases. This means that today's level is about the level that both the current and the previous government believe is appropriate. The fact that the NRC licence has to increase in line with the overall price increase in society will only be to maintain the licence, which is not an increase. The numbers that the representative Knudsen talked about, I don't think any of the parties that are behind the license look at themselves. As far as concerns about local radio stations are concerned, it's particularly interesting, because you could imagine what would happen to a privatized NRC. If the NRK Buskerud or the broadcasts around the regions were privatised and were to enter the same advertising market as local radio stations, which are already struggling to finance their business through advertising, it would be a mere disaster and most of them would have to be closed down.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e319	One topic we've been talking about is what we want in the future and the need to have a licence funding to get to what we call a little narrower offer, or at least an offer that cannot be on its own in relation to advertising funding. The offer to children is an example of this. So it's like producing for children in Norway is pretty expensive. Child TV can be purchased for a few hundred dollars a minute from the Czech Republic or from other countries. Some of us — I will also adopt the Council of State — think it is important to have such production in Norway. Then it's important that we have more production environments. We now see many production environments growing around the country. And then we also see that the NRK is not quite willing to buy in so much of this. Today there is a requirement for 10 pst. purchases, resulting from an EU rule. Could the Council expect to increase the purchase requirement for NRK in addition to this, e.g.: to 20 p.m., which one has in Denmark?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e326	Firstly, I fully agree with the representative, Olemic Thommess, that the offer to children is one of the things of the NRK's central mission. As we have quite strict rules for advertising aimed at children, fortunately, and on which there is a great deal of agreement, it will be an area that the commercial channels won't care about, because you don't have advertising revenue on it. For a commercial actor, a viewer is not like a viewer. The commercial viewers, who are the target advertising group, are important, and children are not such a group. That the NRK must have self-produced but also purchased series and programmes in Norwegian, based on Norwegian culture and identity, I think is important. But I also think there are many quality programmes produced in other countries — probably also in the Czech Republic or other countries. We who see «Three Nuts for Cinderella» every Christmas evening know that they make good TV shows in the Czech Republic. Finding the balance between the Norwegian and the purchased items I think is one of the NRK's tasks. But it's also stimulating, for example. Norwegian drama production I believe the NRK can contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e333	There is a broad consensus on the general broadcasting role. There is a broad consensus here in the Chamber that there is also a need for a publicly funded public broadcaster. But the left's view is that our way of collecting a license is pretty old-fashioned, connected to one type of technology in a household tax. So my question is whether the Council of State is considering other ways of applying for a licence in the future, which is linked to technology, and which could still give the NRC a free position, but also a modern, up-to-date acquisition of what will be the public broadcasting role in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e338	I think it's an important discussion to take. I understand the representative's question. There's going to be a discussion of it in the public broadcaster's message that's coming in a short time. Now the problem with other technologies isn't so acute, because it turns out, for example. that most people who have a mobile phone, who can take TV, also have a standard TV set in their homes. There are very few people who only have a TV on the computer or the mobile phone, and so you pay a license, and you never have to pay more than one license per. household, no matter how many mobile phones or computers you have. The idea behind the licence is to ensure that the budgets of the NRK do not become a negotiating ball in a budget arrangement, to find out that we are now cutting a little bit in the NRK budget, to finance it, or to make it a political battle. It is the idea of ensuring the independence of the NRK that is behind having a licence-based funding. It has some aspects of distribution – I realise that too, but I believe that the criterion of independence is so strong that until an alternative is found that ensures it in a good way, we should keep the licensing system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e345	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e350	Procedural Party Document No Eight proposals bring some drastic conclusions on the future and funding of the NRC. Actually, it's okay. In this way, we are clearly shown the great difference between the Progress Party and the government parties on important cultural and media policy issues. In this case, it is probably right to say that the substantial distinction goes between the Progress Party and all the other parties on the Stortinget, and that is reassuring. It is, in other words, a great deal of support for the policy of the Government of Soria Moria, which many people have referred to here today. There are, in my view, two important reasons why we have to hold back the policy that the Government is pursuing in this field. Firstly, it is very important that the NRK has a public broadcasting mission. This implies that the NRK is required to assume greater and different responsibilities from the commercial channels financed by advertising through licence funding. The NRK's mission is to hit both wide and narrow. The NRK shall, inter alia: provide for the best so-called unprofitable programmes, offer children and take responsibilities in relation to different minorities, inter alia. the Sami population. And not least, the NRK has a decentralised structure that today provides us with high-quality programming services at local and regional level. In a small and relatively sparsely populated country such as Norway, this is a value that, in my opinion, is inalienable. And precisely the way the NRK solves its public broadcasting mission, gives the institution credibility and, through it, contributes greatly to the legitimacy of licensing funding in the population. The second relationship I want to mention, and as many people have been involved here, is the concern about what would happen if we were to go ahead of a policy that is addressed by the proposers. The diversity we have today in radio and television is, of course, conditional on both the financing of licences and the funding of advertising. It helps to give us channels with complementary content. In Document No: The 8 proposal does not pose a problem for the Progress Party in which the NRK, in addition to those who are already there, was to enter the advertising market. As the Council of State also said, there is no evidence that there will be room for this in the future. On the contrary, we would probably see a narrowing in the number of channels and a commercialization and alignment of the program offer. I must admit that I am wondering about the Advancement Party. It is a paradox that the party that looks at and often points out that Norwegian culture and tradition are to be respected can promote a proposal that involves the liquidation of the institution that has been, both in the past and in the present, the best guarantor of Norwegian language and culture and carries good traditions for debate and information. I therefore allow myself to be satisfied that a large majority of the Committee recommends that Stortinget reject the proposal of the Progress Party on the reorganisation and fragmentation of the NRC and the winding-up of the licence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e361	Initially, I said that in the comments in this case, it is only new ideas, new ideas and new visions and also understanding of the many people who do not actually use NRK's offer, but who are forced to pay for it anyway. On the part of the majority, it has been exposed to these views, and the debate has also shown that. Otherwise, many times in the debate, advertising in the NRK has been referred to as an outrage. I think it's a little strange that you run so hard on, when we know that many of the big sporting events that NRK delivers to us are actually advertising funded through sponsorship posters. An interesting question that I have not received a good answer to today is this about all parties stating that it is important to facilitate a free and independent press, and that this is a prerequisite for democracy, freedom of expression and our legal community. But we don't have a free and independent press where the largest content provider is a state owned and coercive funded mastodon with over NOK 3 billion in operating grants and thousands of employees. I think we'd see this problem clearer if, for example. The evening post was the state newspaper and financed by coercion and delivered in all mailboxes. Something like this would probably be called undemocratic and state governance of the exchange of views in our society. Whoever made me jump the highest in the chair today, I think I was the representative of the Christian People's Party, who politically in this case placed himself further to the left than SV. As far as I understood, the NRK was the guarantor of equality in Norway, and also that children should not act on TV makeup and in bikini. It was also the case that the representative from the Christian People's Party claimed that all the elements in the advertising funded the TV broadcasts – as TVNorway and TV 2 – were directed and tailored to what the advertising buyers and companies wanted to be there. I think the programme manager on TV 2 and also those who enjoy watching TV 2 and TVNorway in between would react very strongly to that. I also noticed that the Right Representative claimed that this proposal was only motivated by the fact that the license would be removed. It is possible that in the Right you do not have any ideological or moral spine. But for the Progress Party, this is, in fact, far more important than the crowns with the coercive perspective in this matter. And here I also think that the Right should have met us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e375	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2251]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e391	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes and Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party, Center Party and Left 5 minutes each. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e404	In St.meld. No 11 for 2006-2007, the Government proposes to establish a framework support scheme for the increased production of electricity from renewable energy sources. The proposed aid scheme shall be granted as a production aid to be granted as a fixed premium per year. kWh renewable electricity produced. The aid scheme itself shall be managed by Enova and financed through the returns of a so-called renewable energy base and energy efficiency improvement fund and Enova’s 1 øre/kWh commitment in the network lease. In total, Enova is expected to manage approx. SEK 1.6 billion to be spent on renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement. Around one third of the aid shall be granted to renewable electricity. Furthermore, it has been suggested that the aid scheme be differentiated for different technologies for electricity generation. The proposed support system is brief as follows: Hydropower is applied for the first 3 MW installed capacity of 4 øre/kWh.Wind power is applied for 8 øre/kWh.Biopower and immature technologies are applied for 10 øre/kWh. This aid shall be granted over a period of 15 years and shall be curtailed when electricity prices exceed, where appropriate, the system price of Nord Pool by 45 ø/kWh. For more detail on the proposed renewable energy support scheme, I would also like to refer, as rapporteur for the matter, to the content of the big message and in the vote – and to what appears in today's debate. The government, rightly so, has had to endure considerable criticism of the weak means of increasing the production of renewable electricity provided in this big news. There have been criticisms from many sides – and have been a massive dissatisfaction with – the government in this matter. Both an overall political opposition here on the Stortinget, industry actors and environmental organisations is of the opinion that increased investment in renewable energy requires stronger instruments than the Government proposes in this Communication. In the context of the opposition's dissatisfaction with the grossing-up message, a number of proposals are promoted from the opposition parties on which the batches are either held together or in different configurations. There is a significant common feature of the criticism of the government’s weak commitment to renewable energy, that a mandatory electricity certification system would have been a better support system to promote renewable electricity production in Norway than the government support system is now proposing. It was with great surprise and despair that both an overall opposition to the Stortinget and the operators in the force market in February 2006 had to find out that the Government stated that a common certification scheme with Sweden could not be implemented, perhaps with some dubious reason that the scheme would be too expensive for Norwegian electricity customers. This was a strange argument. In the case of the certification scheme, there is on the contrary reason to believe that such a scheme would have triggered so much new power generation that it would have in itself mitigated market prices on electricity. Thus, lower market electricity prices would have compensated for the additional price customers would have had to pay for the certificate flow. However, following the collapse of the negotiations on a single Norwegian-Swedish electricity certification system or market, the Minister of Oil and Energy was quick to promise that the Government would come back with a renewable electricity support system that would be at least as good as expected an electricity certification system. With respect to reporting, one must probably be a member of the Government in order to believe that the support system currently being proposed is at least as good as a mandatory electrical certification system would have been. At present, very few actors in the power industry believe that the proposed government aid scheme will trigger sufficient investments in increased power generation in Norway in the future. Of, inter alia these important reasons ask all opposition parties to notify St.meld. No 11 is sent back to the Government, and the same parties propose that the Government resume negotiations with Sweden as soon as possible on a common Swedish-Norwegian market for electricity certificates. So a little bit about the overall background for increased focus on new power generation. In the last 10–15 years, Norway has experienced an increasingly strenuous power situation due to a steady increase in power consumption over the same time period without the expansion of sufficient new generation capacity. This has resulted in Norway being the net importer of electricity in the last seven years to cover our domestic electricity consumption. Only thanks to the opportunities for exchange of power with the Nordic market and Europe has Norway avoided high power prices and power shortages for some years. Despite Norway's very abundant supply of energy resources, where we export around 90 pst annually. of the country's total energy production, we are now facing a number of key energy policy challenges that we can no longer take lightly. The main energy policy challenge facing Norway today is to ensure a better balance between power generation and power consumption in the Norwegian market. Since near 99 pst. of Norway’s power supply is hydropower-based, it can – as we all know – cause major annual fluctuations in production and thus also major fluctuations in power prices. Norway's electricity supply is, in many cases, too one-sided based on hydropower. Greater flexibility in the Norwegian power market is desirable. Here comes not only gas power, but also wind power, small power and biopower into solutions that it is worth looking at. The gradual conversion of the Norwegian energy system from a slightly smaller share of fossil energy and hydropower to the phase-in of other renewable energy sources is both correct and important, but it is a long-term process that needs to be started now. If we are to succeed, the right instruments must be used as soon as possible. The government's objective of 3 TWh wind power by 2010 could now be at risk. However, all new wind power projects have now been put on ice. For example, the Land Association of Energy Enterprises, EBL, believes that almost no wind farms will be realised with today's aid scheme, which is thus 8 ø/kWh. Renewable energy sources will become increasingly important in the coming years. The EU recently entered for 20 pst. energy consumption shall be renewable energy by 2020. However, it remains to be seen whether countries are able to achieve this objective, so this is a different matter, but greater flexibility is important in order to better manage the fluctuations in power generation and demand in Norway. Norway had a surplus of power when the free power market was established from 1991. So we don't have that anymore. Profits of power have become a loss of power even in a normal year, and the supply situation has become increasingly vulnerable to annual variations in rainfall and temperature. In this way, in my view, it is a serious cross-section of thought that the Government is unable to promote a more ambitious proposal to increase power generation in Norway than that in St.meld. No 11, which we are dealing with here today. Finally, I would like to address the proposals with which the Progress Party is co-sponsored, and the proposals by the Progress Party alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e466	The representative Torbjørn Andersen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e471	The party of progress is, as I see it, a market liberalist party, which wants to reduce State intervention against private people and businesses, and to put an end to the government's collection of taxes and excesses. My first question is: Is the Progress Party now considering that, through their primary proposal, as the representative Torbjørn Andersen now presented about green certificates, they actually collect amounts in the billions class from Norwegian power customers? The second question is: is the Progress Party considering that several hundred million dollars of this might have gone to projects in Sweden? And thirdly, how can the Progress Party allow itself – in the case of a market-oriented product that has now become electricity and to which the Advance Party is giving its cheer – to charge an additional electricity charge of 4, 5, 6 or 7 øre/kWh?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e482	When it comes to the last question, I'm actually in disagreement. I think that's the wrong way to ask a question. A system of a common Swedish-Norwegian electricity certification system would provide more expensive electricity prices at the start – it is certain – but as it would phase in more power generation in Norway, it would lower electricity prices in the Nordic market. That would be an extra cost of maybe 10 to 15 pst. on the flow that had to be purchased as a certificate stream, which is somewhat more expensive, but it would thus dampen the power price in the market. It would compensate for this extra charge on the certificate stream, as I see it. There are total calculations that there would be no more expensive electricity for customers with a certification scheme. On the other hand, after a few years the flow would be cheaper for the usual end-user in Norway. The Progress Party has based its support for a certification system on the fact that there would be a more reasonable flow over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e491	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e494	St.meld. No 11 on the aid scheme for electricity generation is an important matter. We have also pointed out on several occasions that the country is in a vulnerable power situation. We therefore believe that it is important to facilitate increased power generation as quickly as possible. In addition to the hydropower production we have today, we need a more robust, flexible and not least versatile production system in the future. Such a system must be capable of coping with both annual precipitation fluctuations and seasonal temperature variations. Now that we are dealing with the Government's proposal for a support scheme, I think it is worth stressing that the proposal is predictable for investors through a long-term financing scheme for the aid scheme. This, in our opinion, underpins a robust system that ensures the technological and cost differences between the production technologies that the aid scheme is intended to embrace. But let me start with some considerations about the so-called green certificates. Since the month-end of February/March 2006, the opposition in this Chamber has had almost one response to any question of electricity production, green certificates, which in no circumstances has been nuanced. Let me make it clear first: we were also for green certificates. That's why we wrote it in as part of the Soria Moria statement. We were also for green certificates, but not at all costs, as some others seem to be. Negotiations with Sweden stranded how much extra electricity would be paid by consumers in the two countries to finance the development of new renewable energy. We would therefore not agree to an agreement that could mean that Norwegian consumers would pay twice as much for the certificates as Swedish consumers, even though it might have been considered ambitious on the basis of the Progress Party's scale. A certificate price is difficult to calculate, but some principles are important to obtain. It is consumers, the power customers, who have to pay for the licensing system, and the higher the licence price, the more consumers have to pay. If the intention was to eliminate any risk arising from wind, bio and hydropower plants, as the opposition suggests, then there is reason to believe that the bill for Norwegian consumers would not be completely insignificant. Then it's about amounts that are easier to express in billions than in millions. Secondly, there was reason to fear that much of the Norwegian consumption to be paid through a certificate market would go to finance projects in Sweden. In the Workers' Party we have a good relationship with our Nordic neighbours, also with the Swedes. But despite this, we think it is somewhat unreasonable that perhaps several hundred million kroner demanded by Norwegian electricity customers should go to subsidising electricity production in Sweden, a production we sorely need in Norway. We therefore want to support projects in Norway, and not in Sweden. As a result, the current aid scheme provides targeted support for renewable energy projects in Norway. And that must be a good starting point. In addition, we have made the support so that we do not spend the electricity customers' money on supporting projects that are profitable without support. In a certificate market, it would most likely have been the case that already profitable projects had received support, aid demanded by electricity customers in Norway. So to the matter itself. The proposal itself is based on an aid scheme per year. produced kWh – 10 ores for biopower, 8 ores for wind power and 4 ores for hydropower up to 3 MW. We believe this is a balanced proposal, which will help trigger robust projects. The proposal is therefore not intended to trigger any planned electricity project, but sensible, robust projects that have a long-term impact. We also believe that there are major differences in the cost level of hydropower, wind power and biopower, so that a technology neutral system such as the certification market would seem unfavorable and actually not stimulate the production systems we actually want to give priority to. Therefore, in order to obtain the most precise support mechanism possible while wanting the most output from the grant funds, we have chosen to differentiate the support between the different technologies. In this sense, we think it is right to give the most to bioenergy and at least to hydropower, which is probably the most robust and most profitable method of production. The ELT would grant the same grant to all technologies and would not underline the differences in costs actually encountered between the different technologies. Unfortunately, in the debate that has now been going on for a long time, some in the opposition say that the framework conditions have now also been changed for development. That doesn't lead to correctness. I think it is worth stressing that the framework conditions for the development of new electricity production were not clarified by the previous government, the Bondevik II government. The Government of Stoltenberg has already notified through the Soria Moria Declaration that if a green certificate market could not be implemented as intended, other instruments would be implemented. And that is exactly what we are doing now in terms of framework conditions for new renewable electricity production, framework conditions that have not been set in the past, although sometimes one would think that the framework conditions here have been clear for many years. So it's not like that. The Bondevik II Government was unable to establish a long-term framework for this industry in the form of an aid scheme. In the case of the transitional arrangements, they have been maintained and, in addition, extended. This means that the transitional regime will also apply to biofuels. One example that is worth mentioning in this context is Södra Cell, which through its industrial production has a bio-power plant built before 1 January 2004, a bio-power plant that would not be supported by a scheme of green certificates. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to obtain support for this type of power generation built before 2004, and thanks to the Government's arrangements now, Södra Cell will receive support for its electricity production from 1 January 2009. Overall, we believe that the aid scheme now on the table will actually contribute to the realisation of several development projects, including projects that to date have not been realised due to excessive economic risk. The main device of the aid scheme is therefore to contribute to reducing the risks arising from such projects, and we now believe that support for the different technologies is balanced and will help trigger robust projects. We have noticed that there are concerns about the extent to which the aid scheme will lead to investment. I would then like to point out that the main message focuses on the ongoing assessment of the aid scheme in relation to the development of the renewable electricity market. But at the same time, I would like to stress that the purpose of the aid scheme is not to eliminate the risks inherent in an investor's business, nor to support already profitable projects. The aid scheme shall help to reduce the risk and trigger new investments. Finally, I would like to mention that the aid scheme is to be financed in such a way as to avoid queues and that the need for funding beyond the framework is to be financed by additional appropriations. I am pleased that today we do not introduce a certification scheme for which the electricity customers in Norway have to pay, or a scheme in which we transfer millions of kroner to Swedish manufacturing plants, or use the collected funds from Norwegian power customers to subsidise already profitable power plants. On the other hand, I am pleased that we are currently receiving a support scheme that is robust and long-term and adapted to the cost variations between the different forms of production, so that we reduce the risk to investors, and that the scheme is fully aligned with production in Norway. I can therefore strongly recommend voting in favour of the system and for the majority voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e533	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e536	The representative of Aasland is right in one thing in his post. It's that this is an important thing. On the other hand, it is to claim that there is a robust setting we are now handling, and a robust system, relatively optimistic. It is really naive to say that a quadruple message can deal with such an important matter in a thorough and serious way. But demagogic Aasland comes out when he says that the reason they don't want green certificates is that all the investments would have come in Sweden. For some time, Econ put back an analysis showing that, on the contrary, investments would have arrived in Norway, because it is in Norway that we have the greatest untapped wind potential, the small power plant potential and the bioenergy potential. Sweden has come much further than us in terms of bioenergy, and therefore the major projects there are already realized. In the case of costs, 5 to 6 to 7 ears have been mentioned. Where does that number come from? Econ shows that the cost would be 1.5 cents. When we know that the government is already withdrawing 1 cent for energy purposes and 10 cents in addition to the electricity charge, wouldn't it be better to get a green certificate scheme and be compensated for the cost of a lower electricity charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e546	Through the current proposal for a support scheme, we have chosen to focus on robust and good projects in Norway. The certificate scheme in common with Sweden, to which Solvik-Olsen refers, had no guarantee of where production would have to end. However, a certification system will also, of course, attract the most robust power plants, most likely hydropower plants, at least in the first phase. We have a device that somehow prioritises all the technologies that we want to highlight and support in Norway. That's the assumption of this plan. We believe that it will trigger investment, and that we now have a support system that, despite being assessed, will trigger new power projects in Norway, unlike what we would have received with green certificates.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e551	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e554	Sometimes it can be easy to reconcile the map with the terrain. It was a flaming post the representative held from the pulpit. But in the committee we have had a hearing relating to the proposal put forward by the Government. At that time, there was no consensus among those who were being consulted that the proposal put forward by the Government would not trigger a sufficient degree of the new renewable energy that is ready for pottery. Of course, we can discuss this with green certificates. It has almost become paradoxical that the Workers' Party was a strong supporter of it in the past. What is now the problem is that we do not get enough renewable energy that is potable. Then you have a problem. Since at least as good support schemes were promised with the new system as with green certificates, is my question to the representative: does the representative believe that renewable energy support schemes will be at least as good now as they would have been with a green certificate market?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e563	With regard to the scheme we are now proposing, and the consultation that has taken place, there is little doubt that those who are planning to invest in this type of manufacturing plant hope that, as far as possible – to say – risk relief in the form of support measures and, in this way, express some restraint when the promoted scheme might not fully comply with the level of aid they had expected. I understand that, but it doesn't provide a basis for saying that this scheme that is now proposed will not trigger new projects. There is also talk of the basis of return to be established before new investment decisions are taken. The scheme is not intended entirely as a risk relief. It is intended to relieve only some of the risks incurred by the investor. To the support scheme: Yes, I think it is good enough as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e570	It is with a heavy heart that the Stortinget will today adopt a support system that will not trigger enough renewable energy compared to the amount of power we need. The representative of Aasland himself argued that we are vulnerable to power generation. Unfortunately, what we see today will not trigger enough energy. We agree that we are vulnerable. I also believe that this is a clear advice from the industry that this will not trigger enough. I disagree with the representative's analysis, that the industry is detained. I meet with a lot of enthusiasm, and I face a lot of progress towards being part of producing new renewable energy. My question is: Will the Workers' Party, as the largest government party, at some point take over the signals and be involved in reviewing the system, so that we get the energy we need?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e579	We have said through the big message and underlined in this debate that we want to follow the development of the market related to new renewable energy. Of course, we stand by that, but that we should change the arrangement and the arrangement in the light of the assumptions made by the Christian People's Party here, I think it's something early. In fact, I choose to see it so that the overall scheme that the Government is now introducing will trigger good projects, robust projects, without us fully entering into and taking the risk of the builders, but we take large parts of it. There are many projects in the field of new renewable energy that have been presented to us and that may show a return of 7 pst. without investing. What one would then have to do to trigger new investments is actually to create an aid scheme that contributes to the return beyond 7 pst. We think that's unreasonable, given that the arrangement that the Christian People's Party primarily wants is a collection of money from Norwegian power customers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e586	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e589	Deng Xiaoping once said that the main thing is not whether the cat is black or white, but that it catches mice. What's important today is to get a system that triggers renewable energy in Norway, and we have many more potable projects. Why is renewable energy important in Norway? It is important for Norway to achieve its objective related to the Kyoto Protocol. New renewable energy does not emit CO2, and we need more of such energy. Norway is also in a vulnerable situation with regard to electricity. Of course, it is amazing that a country that exports 12 times as much energy as it itself consumes is at risk of being in a power crisis. That's because of 99 pst. of our electricity comes from hydropower. If it rains a lot a year, we're in the situation that we export, and if it rains a little bit, we need 30 TWh. So we're going to produce 90 TWh, but then we're going to use 120 TWh. The challenge is therefore to get 30 TWh, which makes us robust even in a year that rains little. This has been widely agreed on at Stortinget for many years. It was also widely agreed that green certificates should be the scheme to trigger the potable renewable energy projects. In the negotiations with Sweden, the Norwegian and Swedish governments did not agree. The negotiations broke down. The government would then, as the Council of State also said on several occasions, come up with a system that was at least as good as the green certificates. In the hearing in the committee we received evidence that the system that had now come was not at least as good. A great many renewable energy projects are being dropped. It's the first litmus test. The level of support schemes for the various energy carriers is objectively – I don't think there can be any disagreement about – lower than what would have been in a green certificate market, at least if you compare it with Sweden. In Sweden, there are support schemes for bioenergy, small-scale power plants, etc., of 15 to 20 cents. The support we're talking about here is 4-10 cents, related to the different energy carriers. How, then, it can be argued that the aid scheme for a small power plant that is to be developed and that receives 6 cents in Norway is as good a support scheme as would be obtained from a green certificate market with 15-20 cents, I just don't understand. It is interesting when the Labour Party now spends so much time and effort on slaughtering the scheme with green certificates, that consumers have to pay for it themselves. In fact, the aim of a total accumulation was to establish these green certification schemes. It's kind of amazing that you use so much power to argue against that system. It would have been a small hit for the consumers, but I think that the impact would have been evened out quickly by the fact that there had also been an increase in energy production. In this way, we would get more stable prices. But now I'm leaving it lying down and going back to what I said initially about Deng Xiaoping. It doesn't matter what color it is on the cat, just it catches mice. The whole point is that this system here doesn't capture the mouse either. It simply does not capture what we now need, more renewable energy, because the support schemes are too poor to trigger it. It is poor energy policy in relation to future power crises that can work in a positive direction to increase energy production, and that is bad climate policy. If you were to have the system that the Government has now set up, it also had to be more structured so that it would have triggered the potable projects. Another drawback and weakness of the system now developed by Enova in Trondheim – it is of course a mitigating factor that Enova is located in Trondheim – is that it must now be notified to and approved by ESA. We might not be able to get an approval for this summer of 2008. Much water will flow into the sea before this system is up and going, and Norway will not be able to generate as much renewable energy as we need. That is why I do not think we have said the last words in this matter. During the spring we will also have negotiations in Stortinget, hopefully, on a climate settlement. A prerequisite for achieving Norway’s objectives is that we get a better support regime than what is on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e609	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e612	The representative Børge Burnde went high on the track in his post now too, as he tends to do when he talks about green certificates. But it'll be a little concrete. I think the Chinese president who looked at both the color of the mouse and other things was much more concrete. Let me give you an example: the last time we talked about green certificates was actually when the Energy and Environment Committee was in Hammerfest last week. Then it was from Hammerfest Stroem – I think that’s what they called it – presented a tidal power plant that they evaluated. It was an open meeting, so I'm referring to it here in Stortinget, and then Børge Brande launched that if we had green certificates, it would have gone right into the green certificates. There had been no problem at all. But then Børge Burnde should think about what the green certificates are in Sweden, and what we had to do with them. This tidal project would not enter the green certificate market. I'm actually a little surprised that he's pulling in one of the greatest heads of state and catching mice. Børge Brende has not been specific on one point in relation to specific projects, nor on the basis of how much they would have cost consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e621	The President must ask the representatives to stick to the stated speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e625	You should listen when the representative Tore Nordtun talks about being high on the track here in this case, at least when it comes to raising the voice. There's something Tore Nordtun knows a lot about. I guess that wasn't the color of the mouse I was busy with, or Deng Xiaoping. Neither did the colour of the cat play such a large role, provided that the trapped mouse. By and large, I guess that was the point. That's what's the point here as well. It is important to have a system that triggers the renewable energy needed by Norway. It is true, as the representative of Nordtun also says, that there was no closed meeting we had in Hammerfest – on the contrary. The press was also present. Finnmark Dagblad, who has obviously followed very well, wrote that I had said that green certificates, with their higher support rates than what you now have for these projects, would have triggered more renewable energy. As far as the concrete project in Hammerfest is concerned, one would not have been entirely in target, because it is also an investment cost. It's in the paper, and that's what I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e636	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e639	Conversion to more environmentally friendly energy production is central to the red-green energy policy. For SV, more efficient energy use, transition from heating with electricity to bioenergy and new renewable energy have long been the main priority. I am pleased that in just over a year the red-green government has been able to put in place several decisions of great importance for an environmentally friendly energy conversion in Norway. The main decisions have been the increase in the transfer to Enova, the CO2 tax on gas for heating, the requirements for lower energy consumption in new buildings and the subsidies for energy saving in households. Through the creation of a basic renewable energy fund, the red-green government is increasing the transfers to Enova by nearly DKK 1 billion per year. years. Never before has so much money been spent on environmentally friendly energy conversion as under the red-green government. The government has also set a new and more ambitious target for energy saving and new renewable energy production. We're now working to reach 30 TWh by 2016. I therefore wonder a little about the criticism from the opposition in this matter. Why – can you ask – did they not establish the framework conditions they are now calling for when they themselves were in government? The threat of dangerous climate change, in combination with a sometimes strenuous energy situation, presents us with major challenges in energy policy. My assessment is that the most important thing is to streamline energy use. In Norway, we are at the top of the world when it comes to waste energy. Therefore, the focus of the energy debate must not just be on reinvigorating power. Reduced energy consumption is even more important. In Norway, over 30 TWh of electricity is only used for heating. This is wasted with a valuable energy resource. The government has therefore chosen to confirm that two thirds of the energy fund will be used for energy saving and heat. This means a strong escalation in this area. I have registered that questions have been asked whether the proposed renewable energy support scheme is good enough. At the same time, I have registered that decisions have been made to invest in both new small power plants and wind power, after the scheme was launched. There is also a notified interest from bioenergy producers. At the same time, I would like to remind you that, in its majority comments, the government parties refer to the big message, which states that the scheme will be assessed in relation to the market development of renewable energy, and that additional appropriations will be provided if funding is needed in addition to the return of the energy fund. I will end by reminding you that Norway has large energy resources in new renewable energy. SV has been fighting for decades for us to invest more in the exploitation of these resources. I am therefore very pleased that it now seems to be a great uprising in Stortinget if the SV has fought for a long time to focus more on Norwegian energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e657	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e660	The representative’s description of the policy that the Government is now putting forward bears witness to propaganda and not to reality. Rarely has such a comprehensive case with such a long effect had as little majority and as much resistance in Stortinget as we experience today. The representative boasts that a huge amount of money is being spent. Yeah, that's right. But he boasts a little bit of the results. On the other hand, he notes that investments have been made in small-scale power plants and wind power. It is always nice when someone notices things, but I hope that the representative has also noticed that much more projects are being scrapped as a result of the government's policy. The question is whether the representative at the hearing in the Energy and Environment Committee noticed that 14 out of 14 hearing bodies said that they did not believe that the government with this policy would be able to achieve the results they had set themselves as targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e667	We note that it is critical, but at the same time we note that there are many actors out there who believe that the most important thing in this country is that we have a well-developed infrastructure, and that we have stability in the concessions and the rest of the bureaucracy. These relationships, in combination with the one billion that we are now putting on the table, are we sure to trigger a lot of new renewable energy. Then we have said – I hope the representative has noticed – that we will consider what is now happening in the market, and then come back with more money if there is a need for it. The point is to get a lot of renewable energy, which we need in this country, and we have hope that it will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e674	In opposition, SV went the longest of all parties to demand a scheme with a Norwegian-Swedish green certificate market. What comes from the fact that SV is first in the position to ensure that such a scheme is rejected? Now, when you have evidence that the Swedes today receive about 20 Swedish ears in support from the state and electricity customers, who are running one project after another with new renewable energy, a scheme that, for example, with 5 cents for the Norwegian power customer could have given a lever to invest 3, 4 or 5 billion kr in new renewable energy. SV prefers 880 million. kr in place in 2009 for comparison. What comes from the fact that SV has lost all its ambitions in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e679	I record that the Right has now taken up the opposition with the rhetoric that is now being carried out here. I want to remind the representative Ivar Kristiansen that in the previous period, they actually put the Right in government, and they even had the Minister of Environmental Protection. I don't remember what concrete action the Right took on renewable energy, for example. were to be triggered, or for our commitments to be fulfilled in relation to the Kyoto Protocol. SV is ambitious. We have great ambitions, and have done a job in a human age to take the climate challenges seriously. That's why we've put on the table a billion kroner to trigger renewable energy. We are sure that this scheme will deliver results. And then we've once again said that beyond that, we're opening up to consider adding more money to the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e684	This must be a sad day for SV, who has been a driver for triggering renewable energy production, when they have to provide a system that parks projects and does not trigger them. The representative said it was a historic initiative. The mistake made by the government parties' representatives is that they compare a system that will work in the future with a system that has worked in the years behind us. What we have to compare is the system that is now being presented with a set of green certificates. Then the government will now add up, only make up a smaller part of the amount of support that the certification system would have involved. But then to the question. The left has tried to gain transparency in the decision-making basis behind the proposed levels of aid. There appears to be no evidence that this is the right level to trigger the necessary production. Is the SV aware of the reason for the level of support selected? And do you have any evidence that it's sufficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e693	I think I'll repeat a little bit of the answer I gave to another representative here earlier, who was from a party that was part of the government in the last period. I'm recording that the Left is now very busy and wants to present itself as a very environmentally friendly party. I also remind the Left's representative that the Left had four years to present what they are now looking for. That's the one. The second is that all the documentation and information needed to advance this case and make a decision that we believe is positive, correct and forward-looking is in the big message. We're happy with that. That is the basis on which we make our decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e700	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e704	Today, the Storting provides support for a renewable electricity support scheme that will not work. The reason for this is that the proposed level of aid is too low to trigger investments of importance in renewable energy. In many ways it is bad to experience this today. There is a great deal of political consensus that we need more renewable energy, but the government and government parties are unable to trigger investments for the projects that many developers have done. The majority do not have the ability to trust that investments in renewable energy will provide a satisfactory economy. The Committee’s hearing on 8 February showed this clearly and subsequently confirmed the fact. In the Address Paper before the weekend, State Secretary Usseth says that it is not appropriate to raise the level of support. The goal of 30 TWh renewable energy and energy saving by 2016 is on track, and most of it will come from an additional measure and bioenergy/heating, says the State Secretary. I think the statements to the Secretary of State show well what is the Government's project. It's energy saving, biopower and heat. This is where the money will come. However, it will not trigger significant new power generation, but it will make current energy use more efficient. This supports the Christian People's Party, but the Christian People's Party also believes that we need a support system that will trigger new power generation from renewable energy sources. The Christian People's Party believes that we need to develop more energy carriers and new power generation. A green certificate market had managed to get this done. We know that the government promised a support system that would be at least as good. We also know that today's message does not meet this. Saving also does not trigger new power generation, it releases power. But then the government must also tell us where it will release power. One may not have to be the greatest fortune-teller to see that industry needs to use less, and that industrial workplaces can then be threatened by government policy. The parties to the Government have a majority in this Chamber and must therefore take political responsibility when adopting a support scheme that will not have a significant effect. The majority must assume responsibility for not investing in power companies and the majority must take responsibility for the cessation of new renewable energy activities. One of the most constructive Christian People's Party can do in this situation is propose evaluation of the support scheme in 2010. An evaluation will, where appropriate, enable negotiations to be started with Sweden on a single certificate market from 2012. Unfortunately, the government parties have not shown interest in this, but we believe that such an evaluation would be wise. The government is committed to promoting district heating as an energy source. This is the Christian People's Party's agreement, but then we also need a review of the framework conditions for district heating systems, in order to increase their distribution in densely built districts. Enova currently has support schemes, but we need to look at whether the grants should also cover the infrastructure of pipes and conversion equipment in construction. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes such a review in the 2008 state budget. We know that the use of heat is necessary in order to get more biomass. Therefore, it would make sense to start with the framework conditions for district heating production before a new investment in biofuels is expected. The Christian People's Party also proposes, together with the Left, an investigation of an energy fund for agriculture. This is what we do to stimulate the application of fertiliser heat by investing in biogas plants to use the methane gas for power generation. Farming can be self-sufficient in electricity and heat, which can release electricity for other purposes. In the Christian People's Party, we see a fund arrangement based on the model of the forest fund, and we ask the government to investigate this. It is my hope that, through this debate, the government parties will see the sense of this and support the proposal. The Committee's attitude today tells of a monolithic majority that has been stagnating in its renewable energy policy. The Christian People's Party wants to be constructive, and therefore we have put more money into the pot. We want to increase support for renewable energy sources, but unfortunately we do not seem to have a majority for this today. With this, I address the proposals made by the Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e725	The representative Line Henriette Holten Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e730	The Christian People's Party has recently pointed to the importance of national security of supply, including: through Document No 8:21. Is the Christian People's Party comfortable with the fact that a scheme of green certificates, for which Norwegian electricity customers would have had to pay, would have ended up subsidising Swedish power projects with tens of millions of dollars when we ourselves need a robust power generation?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e737	Today's debate and today's vote once again show that there is a gap between the government parties and the state councils. From the Council of State, Enoxen, we have enough quotes that say we have to expect a higher price, while today it says that we should not burden the consumer. This shows a majority government where it cracks. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we increase production from renewable energy sources. It is important that we do this to ensure our security of supply. Yes, to some extent we know that prices will rise, but for the Christian People's Party, which is concerned with energy saving and saving, it will be an important tool too.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e744	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e747	In this Communication, the Government proposes a target of 30 TWh with new renewable energy until 2016. This is a very ambitious goal, which will provide us with the energy that we are all so busy with to get a more robust energy supply system, to ensure the security of supply in those parts of the country where it is hard work, and to ensure that prices in the power market become more robust and calm. In the beginning, there's been a long discussion about the measure and the mean. From my side, I would say that I consider the goal of being the definite most important thing in what the Storing is debating today. So you set a target of 30 TWh with new renewable energy until 2016. As I said, it is very ambitious, and the way in which we come up with this is, of course, the most debateable. Børge Burnde talked about the cat in his post, and the point was that it was going to catch the mouse. He believes, like the rest of the opposition, that this will not work. We have now over a year heard the story that the green certificates would have been so much better for all practical purposes than the regime that the government is now proposing, and it's been talking about pot-ready projects ever since that time. This is a medium discussion. I notice that, despite the opposition doing its best to blackmail the situation, the situation is that projects are actually being notified all the time. In fact, there is such an interest in the development of mini, micro and small power plants that we now had to expand the processing capacity of NVE. Two major wind power projects are now being built in Trøndelag, Vikna and Roan or Beszacht, and we know that the aid scheme launched for bioenergy significantly improves the economy in the construction of the gas power plant in Skogn. I therefore think that the opposition is going very far – perhaps too far – when they say that this is not going to trigger the potential we depend on to trigger. Although these discussions are never particularly fruitful, there was very little in the last period, although the need for renewable electricity and renewable energy was obviously the same. There is nothing that has appeared since September 2005. We've known this for a long time, and so it happened very little under the previous government. I think this is something that especially Børge Burnde should take care of. He has been both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Industry, and when he reads the comments, it is strongly argued both on the environment and on the industrial front. It really didn't go much longer than 14 days after the government change was a fact, before Børge Burnde thought that everything that was heavy and looking in this country was the fault of the new government. So it's like el is one piece of this. Heat is another piece, and it's a significant piece. That is what the Christian People's Party and the Left point to in their comments. It's basically a paradox all the time green certificates would not have involved any support for heat and bioheating. In Sweden, this production is well over 100 TWh per year. In Norway it is 16 TWh. There's a huge potential here, and it wouldn't have been so green certificates would have helped us something particularly on the way here. However, the support system, the total package to which the Government is putting forward, takes these challenges seriously, and support schemes for the development of water-borne heating systems will be put in place to a very different extent than has been the case up to now. I'm going to stop repeating that it's the goal that's important here. It is not certain that this aid scheme is the only answer to the challenges we face. Nor is it certain that these aid schemes will never be re-evaluated if it appears that we do not reach them. But I'm going to end by saying that I'm optimistic. I'm proud to be able to belong to the majority who are actually doing something about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e767	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e770	I will briefly refer to what Rein Husebø, who is the CEO of Small Power AS, and also Isaac Liland, who is the director of the Small Forces Association, says in terms of the government's wrecking of the certification system: This is a disaster for local value creation! They refer to the fact that an e-certificate market will have a cost page and an income page. First, the power price rises because the electricity certificates are to be covered by the power price. Then the power price goes down because the certificates add new energy to the market. The long-term net impact will be lower the power price. The cost and income at the same place, i.e. the price of power, cancels out to a large extent. Then is my question, since the representative spoke a lot about certificates, and there has also been a review tone here today: Which of these two support systems is the most excellent? Does the Center Party think that these two experts on this are completely wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e777	All the time we succeed in reinvigorating the market will have the same effect on stabilising power prices and possibly also a fall in power prices – what I know. It depends on how much you get in. And then the question is, how are you going to get this in? I note that there is now so much interest in expanding hydropower in Norway that we had to expand the process capacity of the NVE, in order to be able to stay away from the application process.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e782	I cannot see a single area through the representative Borten Moes posts where he advises other than to promote a target of 30 TWh new renewable energy by 2016. He points out that there are some projects that are clear, but through the hearing we have been shown that this is far from the case. It is precisely in a situation where Norwegian investors have to look around the other side of the border to find projects that can provide profitability. When you have the evidence that since 2005, the Swedes have had a progress, a development, which is four times better than we have in Norway, I don't understand how it's possible to make such claims as Borten Moe makes. Where did Borten Moe's analysis come from? What kind of documentation does he refer to when he says in his post that we should achieve results that are at least as good as those that we have in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e788	We are now joining a target of 30 TWh new renewable energy in 2016. It's our clear goal that we should achieve this, and as I said in my post, it's ambitious. When you look at the projects that are currently in the process of being realized, as requested, and as we know are on the stairs, I'm optimistic that this will succeed. Then I believe that the instruments are good enough. Then we reach our goal. Then we have to be able to distinguish between what is goal and what is action. The goal here is 30 TWh with new renewable energy. The goal is not the instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e800	That's the goal that's important,' says the representative Ola Borten Moe. I also believe that we need politicians who are trying to pursue a policy to achieve these objectives. I just want to make a quote from Friday's Address Paper: ‘No, unfortunately. This was too bad. In fact, the offer is worse than what has been suggested as transitional arrangements. That is why we have decided not to apply for funds to expand the second and third construction steps of the Outer Vicna Wind Farm." This informs energy director Kenneth Brandsås in NTE. I would also like to refer to yesterday's decision in the Centre Party: ensure the development and establishment of biogas plants. I expect the representative of the Central Party later today to vote for what was decided yesterday by the National Assembly, the Central Party's policy promoted by the Christian People's Party and the Left, where we set up biogas plants from fertilisers.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e814	It is true, to be specific in the case of biogas plants, that if you use this biogas to produce electricity, it becomes bioel, and you will receive support through this aid scheme. So I also said in my post that these support schemes are not necessarily fully developed. Of course, we have to come back to this if it turns out that we are not able to achieve our goals, but for the time being I am optimistic. For the time being, I say that we can, with good reason, believe that we are going to achieve the goals we have set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e821	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e824	It is an increased recognition that we are facing major climate challenges. There is also a growing recognition that these climate challenges require vigorous action. The Low Emissions Commission, set up by the Bondevik II Government, makes a number of proposals for action they consider necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. One of the areas in which they ask politicians to lead the way and make a real effort is renewable energy production. It is regrettable to note that, while there is growing consensus that we have a major challenge in this area and must do what is needed, the Government does not provide what is necessary to increase renewable energy production. The left is concerned with finding that there is a high potential for saving and more efficient use of energy. However, while this potential is being used, we believe it is important to increase renewable energy production. In a normal year, Norway should have the ambition to be a net exporter. This means that we want to increase renewable energy production, which can help to ensure that clean power from Norway can become part of the northern European power market. I believe from this point of view – given the challenges we are facing – that it is completely incomprehensible that the Green Certificate Scheme was scrapped. It seems quite obvious that the government does not dare to take the burden it would have been to increase, in the short term, the cost of electricity supply to consumers by a few hundred kroner per. years, even if consumers would benefit from this in the long term, because new forces are coming in that could dampen the large fluctuations in the prices of power. The result of the scrapping of the green certificate scheme, despite the fact that almost all the parties said they wanted it, is that confidence in the industries associated with it has been weakened, that politicians can be trusted. The second main result is that we are left with a scheme that is significantly worse than the green certificate would represent. It is such that in 2008 one third of the framework for Enova will go to renewable energy production. It's worth 400 million. kr. It has been estimated that the effects of a green certificate market would be between NOK 1.5 billion and NOK 2.5 billion. So it wasn't like representatives from the government said that you should come back with an equal arrangement. One comes back with something that is significantly worse. This new arrangement was then presented and described in a very thin staging message on four pages. We were today confirmed by the representative from SV that he is not familiar with any evidence of the proposed level of support other than that contained in the notification. This Communication does not provide any evidence that this level of support will trigger large amounts of renewable energy production. The left and others have tried to gain insight into this material on the basis of their calculations by the Ministry. We are strengthened in the faith, through these rounds, that there is no such evidence. In the light of the circumstances I have explained, the Left believes, like the other opposition parties, that the message should have been sent back. In our opinion, new negotiations should have been reopened to create a certification system, and while waiting for it to become a reality, one should have had a level of support that is higher than what is now being envisaged. The consultations held in the Energy and Environment Committee of the EEA are clear that the level of aid currently available is insufficient. It has been demonstrated that in terms of wind power, we are almost at the bottom of the support level in Europe. Only Estonia has a lower level of aid for wind power than Norway has. This is in stark contrast to the willingness to invest in gas power, where you talk about a production price of 35 øre per. kWh in Mongstad and cleaning costs of 40 øre. So there's a lot of will to bet in that area, while it's almost absent in the other area we're discussing today. I hope that in a short time the government will let the performance go and come back with a revised scheme for support schemes, so that we can use this opportunity to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. I'll take up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e852	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e857	I have noticed on several occasions a commendable commitment from the Left in terms of wind and biopower. A very central principle of the Green Certificate Scheme is technology neutrality. There is little doubt that such a kind of neutrality would favor the expansion of hydropower. Is the Left satisfied with this, taking into account the high potential of Norway for both wind power and bioenergy deployment?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e862	I note that all the hearing bodies that have been within the committee, which represent wind power, biopower, etc., are clear that they prefer the system of which the Left is a hot defender, namely the green certificate market, rather than the one that now exists. It is clear that the different actors would be able to make different use of a green certificate market, but there is a unique preference for such a system rather than what exists today. It clearly appears that it would trigger more small-scale power generation, more wind power generation and more bioenergy production. Overall, there would be a significant contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, while the approach put forward by the Government means that Norway, with the great and unique opportunities we have, will be a slowdown in this area instead of becoming a leading country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e869	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e872	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government promised to invest in renewable energy and to increase Enova’s overall energy saving and renewable energy targets. The Government has set a target of 30 TWh new renewable energy production and energy efficiency improvement from 2001 to 2016. The new basic fund for energy efficiency and renewable energy will double the envelope for Enova investment. This was followed up in the 2007 budget. So we're doing well to realize the energy policy visions we presented in the Soria Moria Declaration. We will now have a rights-based support system for electricity production from renewable energy sources. Increased production of renewable electricity is an important contribution to strengthening the balance of power and improving security of supply. In the new aid scheme, we take into account the good characteristics of the electricity certificate market. The aid scheme will be rights-based. We include the transitional system that was established in connection with the work on the electricity certificates. This means that the projects that were realised with hopes of certification support are entitled to receive support. In addition, the transitional regime applies to all biofuels plants, so that we facilitate the continued use of biofuels by these plants. Unlike the electricity certificates, this aid scheme will not be financed by electricity billing. We stimulate new production in Norway without the need for electricity customers to pay for power generation in Sweden. This aid scheme will also provide a safer income for power producers in Norway, as opposed to an uncertain electricity certificate market where the price will fluctuate and where the builders do not have a guarantee of what the price will be, for example. five or ten years. I therefore have great faith in the arrangements we have made. This scheme provides renewable electricity producers with foreseeable support over 15 years of age. This long-term sustainability provides a good basis for new investments. It is not surprising that there has been a great deal of attention about the level of support. We have based our decisions on different input and on both professional and political assessments. There are many considerations to be taken into account – not least there is a balance between the investment in renewable electricity and the investment in other areas such as renewable heat and energy saving. I am concerned that we secure resources for the efforts to heat and save. Two thirds of the funds shall be set aside for these areas. I agree with the representative Børge Burnde that it is uninteresting whether the cat is black or white, only we achieve the results we are looking for. It's also a question of how much we're willing to pay to generate new wind power, hydropower and biopower. If that's what someone claims, wind power needs 20 cents per. kWh in support of becoming profitable, there are other alternatives that provide more renewable energy for money. For example, three industrial enterprises have received 125 million. kr in support from Enova. It triggers 600 GWh energy saving. If you had produced the same amount of wind power, you had to have given $466 million with 8 cents of aid. kr to the same plants. In fact, it is possible to achieve good results in these areas, and I recommend reading page 25 and page 31 of Enova’s 2006 Results Report, which shows that there is a great deal of interest in making investments in these areas. I look forward to the scheme being put into effect. There is a high interest in investments in renewable power generation. Many builders already have a valid concession, and many concession requests are for treatment. That's why I'm now challenging the industry to get on the road and take its share of responsibility, so that we get more renewable power production in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e894	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e897	When this certification system, which has been much discussed here today, was wrecked in February 2006, the Council of State was quite quickly on the track and promised that he would come back with a system that was even better, if I am not mistaken. Then it was modified – it was to be a scheme that was at least as good as the common Swedish-Norwegian electricity certification scheme was expected to be. Big words have been used. There have been words used as ‘historical bet’, and when we look at the massive criticism the Government has received, despite these great words – not least from the point of view of coming back with a system that should be at least as good – is my question: Does the Council of State regret today that he said it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e904	Not at all. I believe that this system is better than a certificate market with the results that we negotiated with the Swedish authorities. Let me say that our starting point was that we also wanted an electricity certificate market in common with Sweden, but we could not accept it on the premises that were presented to us. That is why we have come to a better arrangement. It is wider, it does not charge electricity customers with the costs that an electricity certificate market would have done, and it provides a secure payment to builders over 15 years in the future – as opposed to an electricity certificate market. We have also established a fund that gives a historical investment of SEK 1.6 billion per year. years, two-thirds of which will go to the area where there is now the greatest interest in investing, namely heat and energy efficiency. Especially when it comes to energy efficiency improvement, we now see that the industry achieves very good results at a low price. In fact, we achieve very good results with support of public funds of 2 øre per. kWh. It should have pleased the Progress Party that it is possible to spend so little of the taxpayers' money and get such good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e911	The reason for wanting more renewable energy in Norway is linked to climate challenges, and it is linked to the fact that local energy production will also significantly prevent local electricity crises. The starting point was to have a green certificate market, which would have provided support for renewable energy of around EUR 10 million. 15 cents – a conservative estimate – for the various energy carriers. And then you would make a system that's at least as good as an alternative, with one per. kWh 4 ore for small power plants, 8 ore for wind power plants and 10 ore for bioenergy plants. Everyone in the committee said that this would not trigger the renewable energy it was supposed to have triggered. That was the conclusion of the hearing bodies. Around our country, in different counties, we see that many projects that were initially to be carried out are now being scrapped. Can't the Council of State at least go so far that he admits that the ear support is lower than what it would have been with green certificates? If the investments do not trigger this renewable energy, will the Council of State come back to the Storting and propose higher rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e920	It is true that the support in ear today would be lower than it would have been with green certificates. The disadvantage of green certificates is that we don't know what the support will be in five years. We don't know what it'll be in ten years. It can then be significantly lower than it is today, and projects that are triggered today on the basis of a green certificate market have no guarantee for a fifteen-year period, as that scheme will have. If I was a builder of small power or wind power, I would of course prefer to get 20 cents over 4 or 8 cents. It would have been a miracle if the industry came to the committee and at a hearing said that one preferred a system rather than another that one would think would give a support that was several times as large. I certainly believe that this scheme is better than the result it was possible to achieve with Sweden, which would shift significant costs to Norwegian electricity consumers, and which we did not have the guarantee of would trigger production in Norway. At the top of it all, we now see two areas in which there is a great interest to invest, namely heat and energy efficiency improvement. There are two areas where we have a great potential.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e929	Only one power company has bitten the bait from Enova, namely to expand new wind power with investment aid of up to 25 pst. I think it tells a lot. What we're really left with is an oak, biopower and heat. These will be the main elements of the Government’s commitment to new renewable energy. The Christian People's Party welcomes the efforts in all these areas. We'd like to be in on an increase bet. We'd like to be part of the thermal power and bioenergy layer. But we also want it to be possible to invest in wind power and other energy carriers. Einach and Biocogeneration do not give much new power to the network. Is that a concern of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e938	Let me repeat: I actually agree with the representative Børge Burnde that it is uninteresting whether the cat is black or white, only it captures mice. If we use less power, and thus release electricity on the grid, or if we produce more, it goes into the same thing. If we can do energy efficiency improvement in industry, as is done in Norwegian Forest, with 2 cents per. kWh, which triggers almost half a Alta power plant in production, should be significantly better than using e.g. 15 cents to produce equal force based on wind. We have a great potential to reduce energy consumption in industry. For example, Enova’s 2006 performance report shows: that in 2006 – in just one year with energy efficiency improvement in industry – contracts were concluded for 891 GWh, i.e. close to 1 TWh. So you do that at a cost of approx. Two cents per ear. kWh. If you had produced wind power with a certificate market of 15 cents, you would have used a much higher amount. It shouldn't be hard to understand. So I don't care if it comes from one team or another, only we get enough energy in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e943	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e946	Norway has great opportunities to develop significant energy production from renewable energy sources. The Government has set an overall target of 30 TWh in relation to increased renewable energy production and, in particular, energy efficiency improvement by 2016, based on the 2001 level. I think energy efficiency is an essential part of it all. Here we can all be involved and contribute. If we go into the matter, there's a lot we can do each of us in our own home. It's an important thing, because now it's time for all adults to act as good models for the next generation. It will learn from us what we need to do to reduce energy consumption, and it will learn from us what we need to do to reduce the man-made climate challenges the world faces. Some in this house refuse to believe in man-made CO2 emissions. Then we get others to take responsibility, as we've always done, and the doubters are once again enjoying what we're responsible for. I mean, observing that people out there are starting to understand this. I'm really quite surprised that the opposition will send this proposition back. You have to understand that this process is over. That's good, so at least we don't have to tell the consumers that they have to pay a lot more in electricity bills. I must say as party leader Siv Jensen said in relation to the state budget for this year: the bill is sent to ordinary people – a petty policy! Norway is in a vulnerable power situation. We need to facilitate robust power generation as quickly as possible – and we are in the process. The 2007 national budget proposed the creation of a renewable energy base and energy efficiency improvement of DKK 10 billion in 2007 and a further DKK 10 billion in 2009. This adds up to 880 million. kr from 2010, in addition to the SEK 710 million. kr that Enova has today, by way of an application for the network tariff. It is gratifying that 2/3 of this should go to energy efficiency improvement, renewable heat and not least to district heating infrastructure. I am pleased that this money will be used in a targeted manner. The fact that the largest aid scheme goes to biofuels and immature technologies is quite correct in relation to the red-green priorities. We have large forest areas to take off in Norway, and this will also help balance CO2 emissions. Then to the bet on wind power. In this context, funds must be used for research so that the future will provide windmills in the sea. I don't want the whole coast full of windmills. It is therefore important that the counties make management plans for wind power. Hydropower is also part of the aid schemes and it is particularly important that the aid schemes are targeted. I'm afraid that green certificates with a system that would give the same grant to all technologies would give hydropower expansion the greatest benefits, as that technology is well incorporated. The progress party has insisted that the Workers' Party was in a minority during the hearings in this case. I was one of those who was at the hearings and heard what, among other things. Bellona said. The representative from Bellona said directly: I am asking the opposition to place the certificate system dead. I also refer to the statements of the Nordic energy research project NEP, where a research group believes that the Swedish electricity certification system may collapse when it comes to a deficit situation. Therefore, some believe that a feed-in arrangement will be more stable for investors.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e978	The size has rarely dealt with a staging message where the setting is thicker than the message itself. With a quadruple message, it's not much to do, but when you look at how little the government has contributed in the settings themselves, it's simply embarrassing. The only good thing that comes out of this debate is that at least there is a record, so that when the hour of the financial statements comes at the 2009 elections, we can see what those parties have said, and one can then assess the consequences of the policies they run. Unfortunately, today's debate reflects a very thin report. The government has no professional arguments to defend its policy. They spend a lot of time criticizing the opposition, but don't come up with any figures or facts that defend their own system. The case illustrates a majority government on its most arrogant, and it is quite tragic, when we are now laying the foundations of renewable policy in Norway for the next 10–15 years. Here, through a policy with the lowest possible majority, an overall opposition wants the case sent back. And when you try to get information about what is the basis of the decisions, you're met with a wall of silence. The wind power industry has, among other things: asked to obtain figures as to why the aid scheme would be 8 øre for the wind power industry. One would like to assume that there is an investigation in the back that says that there will be the level needed to meet the promise of 3 TWh in the case of new renewable wind power. The answer one gets there is that they have nothing to do with that number. The same is true of many others. There's no one who knows why a does the numbers that a does. There is no doubt that the promise from the government parties was that this scheme should be far better than green certificates. It's obviously not, and I'm worried that the council doesn't see it on its own. At no point does this system exceed what is in our neighbouring country. This has also been said by the bioenergy industry when comparing the Norwegian and Swedish systems. So the fact that a promoter of the bioenergy bill in Norway is also a relatively incomprehensible point. So it's talking from the red-greens that this is going to be a robust arrangement. When all 14 consultation bodies that were in the Energy and Environment Committee said that one with this scheme would not be able to achieve the objectives of the Government, there is little evidence that the scheme will be robust or long-term. Investments are put on ice and one does not trigger the potential. Then there are some red-green representatives clinging to the realization of a wind power project here and a small power project there, and later on, as if that means that the system is good enough. I am not surprised that a power project is being built. I'm almost surprised that the government is letting it through in its proceedings, but I'm not surprised that there are people who want to invest in the industry. The criticism from the opposition does not refer to the wind power projects and small-scale projects that are being realised, but to the fact that overall the potential is not being realised, and that much is being scrapped. Then I see that SV's solution if the potential is not met is that more money should be allocated here. The problem is that the system is wrong, there is not necessarily a lack of money. Then I also record that the Labour Party spokesman says that there is too little risk in a scheme of green certificates, while the Minister of Energy is concerned on behalf of the industry and says that there is too much risk in a scheme of green certificates. For example, main arguments used against green certificates include: the risk that investments will end up in Sweden. No evidence has yet been found, and everyone knows that the facts – as was also evident in ECON’s analysis a few years ago – are that Norway has much greater potential in terms of small energy, bioenergy and wind power. Everything suggests that there would be Swedish money coming to Norway – not the other way around. We have the best resource access. So Aasland says in his post that the problem will also be that much of the investment comes in hydropower – and that's where the problem lies. From the day one after the election, Hallgeir Langeland from SV and Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa from the Center Party began to argue about whether small power was good or bad. When they can't agree, they have to get away from a system that would subsidize small power to a particular extent. Instead, you get a worse alternative arrangement. So to the claim about costs, that this will be very expensive for consumers. Terje Aasland mentioned 5, 6 or 7 øre/kWh in additional electricity charge. I would like to see it documented. The claim has come many times, no one has documented this. We know that the green certificate price in Sweden is about 15 to 20 cents. If you want to satisfy 10 pst. of the energy market with renewable green certificates, it means 1.5 to 2 ears to the consumer – not 5, 6 or 7 ears. So the government talks as if their own system doesn't have a cost. But Enova already gets one penny at the current price today. Let's take 10 cents on the electricity charge. You could say that of them, 30 pst. set aside in this fund, because that scheme will provide approximately. 2 to 3 extra cents. So the consumer is currently financing 4 cents of the power price, not 1.5-2 cents, that green certificates would mean. Then the Central Party is optimistic and thinks that they should achieve their goals. But if there's only optimism to control energy policy, I'm pretty worried, when the whole industry says that here you won't be able to achieve your goals. The Green Certificate Market will be the best mechanism to ensure that once the goal has been set. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] It doesn't make it clear to the government in its policy. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1012	The President must ask the representative to stick to the speaking time indicated.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1016	The debate today has actually shown that the government parties have set themselves a goal, and then you live so far in the hope – you expect and hope and believe – that you will achieve this goal. But it has not been clear either through today’s debate or this – even if it is relatively tight – the ‘whole’ four-page big message to illustrate how to achieve its goals, and at a time when the challenges are greater for us in a climate policy setting, in a power policy setting – and where we are also discussing our power deficit, which means that prices far beyond 2-3 cents will rise and sink faster – than we may have imagined in the past. I also record that representatives from the government parties in a debate where you really have so little to do with, choose to turn up the volume and rather go back and make claims about what the previous government really did. Let me just briefly, since this has been up in the debate, answer that. We got a national quota system in place. We prepared and got the Kyoto agreement implemented. We recorded that in the 1990s, climate change emissions rose quite sharply in Norway, while they fell during the Bondevik II period. We put in place an agreement with the industry that has led to 20 pst. the reduction of climate emissions, and we were given funding for the instrument that the Government is now paying 100 pst. on, i.e. Enova. We also put in place more renewable energy in the four years of government than in the whole of the 1990s. It must be clear as a background step when you choose to use the rhetoric that you actually do in today's debate. I also believe that in a situation where we in Norway annually actually consume, consume, 190 TWh fossil fuels for transport, for industry, for heating, etc., one should worry much more about establishing competitive, technology-neutral schemes than what you put up to. In fact, the government parties are concerned that arrangements should be made to allow the best and most profitable projects to escape in a situation where we sometimes have a catastrophic under-balance, under-cover. One performs to put in place a scheme that does not stimulate investors but also affects investors to find projects outside their borders. We have also seen that while the Swedes over a comparable period have developed 4.5 TWh of renewable energy at a support price of around 17 cents, in Norway we have been able to achieve a result of 0.6 TWh, and where the cost is between 2 and 3 kr. Therefore, in this case – not in all cases – we should have listened, followed, and we would have insisted on reaching an agreement with the Swedes. At the same time, a big message is presented that is complete without documentation of what is evidenced that the certificate scheme was not put in place with the Swedes. At the same time, the debate performs to push the power customer in front of it, just as if the power customer is also a taxpayer, just as if the power customer is also the owner of a renewable fund, or is involved in financing the state budget. I do not understand the rhetoric at all, even though this is presented as a glan number from the government parties. Had you cared about the power customer, you would have compensated for this by reducing it on the 10 island and so what you have in the electricity charge, and the 1 ear in the charge on the network tariff. The current customer already loads between 11 and 12 cents. If you had been concerned about the power customer and wanted to achieve results in this sector, you would have reduced the level of charges on electricity and on the grid to compensate for a technology-neutral project and the best and most profitable projects to be close to achieving the goals you have set. I record the choice of the best and most profitable solutions and arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1031	The President assumes that the representative will deal with the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1034	Thank you, President! I'm addressing the proposal that the Right is behind alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1039	The representative Ivar Kristiansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1042	First, I have to say that it is good to see such an affordable commitment to putting renewable power production in place in Norway. There seems to be a great deal of agreement about the need. In other words, it is the instruments we are discussing here today, not the goal, and it is in many ways a major step forward. Then it must be said that it is nothing new that a political debate on a matter is used to question each other's motives. Listening to the opposition in this debate gives the impression that the Government and the parties in the position are not concerned with ensuring a good framework for new renewable energy and heat in Norway. It's with respect to report quite incredible, all the time this is the greatest bet ever made in this field. Obviously, you could always have done things even better, spent even more money, but I think it's worth noting what Terje Aasland said. He clarified that the point of the scheme is not to eliminate any risk by investing in renewable production but that the point is to contribute to stable framework conditions and trigger good, robust projects. Of course, it is an honest matter to believe that it cannot be ensured in any other way than by the introduction of green certificates. But there's actually reason to point out that the government made a thorough assessment of the green certificates. There were long negotiations with the Swedes, so it was found that the system now being presented would be more appropriate to start production of new renewable energy and heat in Norway. And ‘in Norway’ is a significant point here. It is important to remember that the cost of introducing green certificates was something that the power customer would pay. It doesn't have to be wrong in itself, but if we in the Workers' Party were to contribute to putting such an extra burden on the consumer, we had to know that the system worked. And by ‘functioning’ I believe that it would have led to more renewable power generation in Norway. It is often argued, at the latest by the rapporteur today, that the additional bill for the consumer would be balanced by the fact that new power generation is pushing prices downwards. That's in and out of control. But it requires, despite having a certain degree of power exchange, that a significant part of the new production took place in Norway. With a common Norwegian-Swedish market, it is likely that we would be left with half of the bill, while a large part of the power development took place in Sweden. So for the Workers' Party and the Government, it wasn't a scenario that you wanted. So it was not a lack of will from the government parties that made green certificates nothing of. The fact is that the outcome of the negotiations we had left behind was not good enough. It wouldn't give us the effect we wanted. If the electrical certificates had been such a sovereign and unproblematic instrument as the opposition claims, it is clear that it would have been introduced. For us – and I expect that it’s a perception most people can share – it’s not that green certificates are a goal in themselves. The aim is more renewable energy and heat production and that it takes place in a way that does not burden the consumer more than is necessary. Then there is a lot of emphasis on consultation opinions from the industry in this debate, naturally enough. We see the concern that has been expressed as to whether the level of aid is high enough to trigger as much electricity as we want. But it is also worth noting that the consultation process has largely endorsed the principle of production aid, i.e. the model we are about to introduce. So there's Ketil Solvik-Olsen wrong. Then I realize that it's funny for the opposition to stand together and split up a little, and even propose to send a case like this, where you put up to the time's bet on renewable energy and heat, back to the Government. And to all intents and purposes, now keep going! But to draw the Government's ambitions, commitment and motives in relation to renewable power generation in doubt, is actually moving out on very, very thin ice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1063	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1066	Today's debate has contained many different elements, and that is important because it is an important debate in relation to the climate challenges we face. I experience a positive feedback from the government parties in relation to the energy fund for agriculture, and therefore ask that proposal No. 12 to be converted into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1073	This will be taken into account during voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1076	The representative Marthinsen says that I am wrong when I claim that the hearing bodies are slaughtering the government's renewable policy. I was present at the hearing. There were none of the 14 hearing bodies that said the government would be able to achieve its objectives with the tools it has, and the most, most of them, who even mentioned which system they would prefer, said green certificates. If the representative Marthinsen heard anything else at the hearing, I would like it documented. But it was clear what came out at the hearing that I was at. Then I would like the representative Marthinsen to at the same time prove his claim that investments in a green certificate market would come in Sweden. Econ’s analysis was that they would probably come to Norway, and that was why many in Sweden were concerned about this. Norway has the high wind power conditions, Norway has greater potential for small power, and Norway has significant resources in bioenergy that have not been exploited. Then there is no reason to believe that the remaining projects in Sweden will be cheaper to realise than the Norwegians. I would like the representative Marthinsen to document his claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1085	At least nothing new has emerged in this debate, or something that was unknown in advance. But there have been some claims that maybe it's okay to stay a little bit. It is said here that if one had introduced a green certificate market and had customers pay the costs, it would be smoothed over time. That documentation would also have been fun to see, because I don't think that actually leads to correctness. I think it's a fact that the price we see on average now, regardless of the effort made in terms of bringing in new renewable energy, will be fairly stable or maybe slightly above what is annual average per. date. So when you talk about statements here, I think it comes as much from the opposition as from the position. Then it was claimed that I had said that there was too little risk in relation to energy production. No, I didn't say that. I said that it is not an objective for us through the support scheme to eliminate any risk in relation to new renewable energy, and I stand by that. For the purpose of that scheme, it is intended to be a risk-relief, but not a risk-removal. That, I think, is an essential point to take with me. It is said from the Right that electricity customers pay taxes and taxes today and this way they also finance the aid scheme. Yeah, I totally agree with that. But there is a strong contrast between the Right's proposal and the Government's proposal by finding room within the already collected taxes and taxes. So it's not clear to the right to do through its things, but it's blind to the green certificates. I think technology neutrality is a little bit focused in the debate. I think it's actually a little strange that both the Christian People's Party and the Left end up in a green certificate system that contains technology neutrality, and that will essentially in the first phase bring out the most robust projects, which will again be hydroelectric projects. Then there's kind of a mismatch between what they're saying, and what they're actually doing in this case, when you're talking about protecting watercourses and what a wants to facilitate there. It is also a little strange that they and the Progress Party are in agreement with the main principles here, because it is actually the case that five of the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter are aimed at bringing out new hydropower also in vulnerable areas. So I think the cooperation – and the coalition – in this case is a little strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1098	At first I would like to congratulate the representative Marianne Marthinsen for her contributions, even though I did not agree with all that was said. So she was having trouble questioning each other's motives. One thing that happens too often in this room is that one actually doubts the motives of political opponents. Although I disagree with the devices of the government system, I do not doubt that the government parties and the government want to release more renewable energy. I think it's a very important distinction. It's not always that we from the Right have experienced that the red-greens are so competent not to put question marks on the motifs, but I think it's neat to make a statement at that particular point. So, as far as the green certificates are concerned, I do not doubt the motives of the Government, namely to get more renewable energy. I think there is a consensus that we need that, both in terms of electricity and energy, and not least in relation to our Kyoto commitments. But I think, like the ones we've been consulting, that a support level of 4-10 centimetres/kWh is too low to trigger the renewable energy that we need. I am unfortunately afraid that in the years to come it will also become quite clear – when we meet next time we will discuss this. I was also a little surprised to hear Aasland's posts, where he argues very strongly against the principle of green certificates. Here it could be a little bit of a turn-on for the power consumers, and it's technology neutral. We must not forget that the Workers' Party was a strong driver in Stortinget to get a green certificate market. And that's right, there's never been any doubt that there would be a small impact on the power customers. Now it is presented as if no, it would have been the end of the world. But then I am also a little in the mood for what was the lead when these negotiations were conducted with Sweden. Was it so that what you said when you were in opposition would not be something you mean when you're in position? I think that the small mark-up that a real green certificate market would have involved, you could have lived with, and I think it too would have triggered so much more renewable energy that it had over time evened out. Another weakness with the system now on the table is that it can take a long time before it is approved in the EU systems. It is now due to be transferred to ESA and an approval can be expected in the summer of 2008. Then there is a lot of water in the sea – it could be power from mini-power plants, a lot of wind has blown along our coast, and a lot of forest has decayed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1112	It was the representative of Terje Aasland who made it necessary for me to take the floor. He made a claim against me and the Progress Party that we could not prove that the price for green certificates will be compensated by the fact that there will be more electricity coming into the market. Well, there's documentation; we have evidence to say what we're saying there. Agder Energie sits on a report that shows that you get a certification system, it will generate an increase in production, so that a household over time will actually earn 200–300–400 kroner on the electricity bill in a year through a decrease in total electricity prices in the market, which – as has been said earlier – is a consequence of the electricity certification system stimulating increased production. So that statement from the Workers' Party here that we don't have any evidence for this, and we can't document it, is not correct. I do not have the documentation here, but if Terje Aasland and the Workers' Party are interested in having access to the report, they will be happy to receive it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1119	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2252]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1127	The size then goes to voting in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1135	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mrs Knudsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1177	There will be so much talk about proposal No. Two, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1201	In the course of the debate, 14 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Amendment No. 4, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 5, by Torbjørn Andersen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 6-9, by Torbjørn Andersen, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. 10, by Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 11 and 12, from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 13, from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on behalf of Christian People's Party proposal No. 14, from Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of Left Proposal No. 12, from the Christian People's Party and the Left, has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government establish an agricultural energy fund scheme.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government requests that the production of heat from bioenergy be subject to the same conditions as the production of electricity from bioenergy.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1250	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the framework conditions for district heating installations and to present its assessments to the State budget for 2008.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1265	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Publisher sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to reconsider the level of support for renewable electricity production in order to trigger more output.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1280	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6-9 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1316	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the delegation of concession authority from the NVE to each municipality for the development of micro and mini-power plants up to 1 MW of installed capacity, and to simplify the procedure for small-scale power plants.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party will support the proposal subsidiaryly. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1333	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out an impact assessment on the protection of tissues before any safeguard decision is taken.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1348	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests an evaluation of the aid scheme for electricity production from renewable energy sources in 2010.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1363	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1387	The vote will then be taken as an alternative between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2007-03-19.ana.ud2285e1416	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
