ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e61	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e70	Odelstinget is currently examining proposals from the Government on changes to the Occupational Pensions Act and the Pensions Act. Pension schemes under these two laws are benefits supplementing social security benefits. The Financial Committee, acting by a varying majority, has adopted the following legislative amendments: 1st@item: inlistbox The Act on Occupational Pensions is amended in such a way that unearned pensions cannot be paid at the same time as rehabilitation benefits are paid out of the social security system.2. The Enterprise Pensions Act is amended in such a way as to ensure that an old-age pension for disabled persons is regulated in a similar way as pensions during payment.3. The Act on Occupational Pensions is amended in such a way that, when converted into a pension scheme, an occupational pension scheme can be continued for members who are disabled or sick at the time of conversion.4. The Enterprise Pensions Act is clarified how the contribution fund is to be used for the conversion of an occupational pension scheme into a contribution pension scheme.5. The Enterprise Pensions Act and the Pensions Act are amended in such a way that workers who have statutory leave and who at the same time have other vestings during the period of leave may be declared out of the pension scheme or are subject to special rules on vesting during the period of leave.6. The Enterprise Pensions Act and the Pensions Act are amended in such a way that only the active persons in the pension scheme are involved in the redistribution of the contribution fund by reorganisations. As case rapporteur on this matter, I have taken a number of considerations that I believe the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance should take note of. Today's legislation on pension rights is becoming increasingly complex and difficult to access, since today there is hardly a single employee who has any sense of which pension he or she can expect in the life of a pensioner. In the same way, employers are struggling to know what commitments the company has incurred. Over the years, a number of laws have been amended and patched up, without creating a more transparent pension system. This fact is a failure statement to our pension system, and it should be a cross-political agreement to have it cleaned up. So it's not just helping to bring down new samples. The pension settlement concluded between today's government and the Christian People's Party, Left and Right parties will make today's legislation even more complicated, not least because a new popular interest will consist of rights earned before 1992, rights earned between 1992 and 2010 and rights earned after 2010. This will be completely impossible to understand both for those who are to receive and for those who are to calculate it. The only guarantee of the new notified pension scheme is that new compensation schemes will be put in place for those who fall out worse than today. What is certain is that there will be very good times for pension experts, not least in the employee and employer organisations. But it is a cross-thinking that as a legislative assembly we have to deal with propositions that we hardly understand ourselves, and that in many ways we are subject to the few in the Ministry of Finance's offices that have the full understanding and overview of the pension law. The Progress Party wishes to point out, at the outset, that the Entrepreneurship Act should be in line with the People's Security Act. This includes, inter alia: not in the case of pensioners living with spouses or consensual residents receiving a provisional pension, invalidity pension, old-age pension, contractual pension, or who have an annual income greater than twice the basic amount, because it is currently stipulated that the basic pension is to be 85 pst. of the basic amount, not 75 pst. The Progress Party therefore promotes proposals to correct this error. Furthermore, the Progress Party wishes to draw attention to Chapter 3, which concerns the regulation of old-age pensions for disabled people. At this point, the Government proposes that the regulation of old-age and survivors' pensions be voluntary. The Progress Party does not share the Government’s view on this and considers that the regulation should be compulsory and must be designed in such a way as to ensure that the old-age pension for disabled persons does not fall below the disability pension. In the view of the Progress Party, the legislative proposal from the Government will create uncertainty about the level of regulation and be particularly problematic in smaller enterprises. The Progress Party therefore believes that the right thing to do is to regulate old-age pensions through one-off premiums and that they are clearly and intelligibly presented in the accounts of insurance companies. Furthermore, the Progress Party wishes to draw attention to the Government’s legislative amendments in Chapter 7, which concern the cases in which contribution funds are to be allocated through reorganisation. The government's proposal means that businesses are getting more costs by tightening up the legislation on the allocation of contribution funds. However, the ownership of the contribution funds is disputed and, in the view of the Progress Party, it is wrong for the Government to propose legislative changes affecting those who have contributed to the collection of funds. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e110	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e113	As the rapporteur said, today we are dealing with various proposals for amendments to the Occupational Pensions Act and the Pensions Act that have a background on the need for clarifications and regulatory changes. The proposals contained in the proposal also reflect various issues raised with the Ministry. The problems in the proposition are therefore rather uneven, and there is no need to hide that some of these are of a rather technical nature. To put it another way – I’m not going to go as far as the case rapporteur, but – we need to ‘early dawn’ to get the full overview of the content of the proposition. What are the main proposals, and what will the legislative proposal mean? The proposal clarifies that unearned pensions from the occupational pension scheme cannot be paid when reimbursement or rehabilitation is paid out of social security. Then I want to stress that the proposal is a clarification of the current right. Such clarification is needed, cf. that the provision as it now reads may lead to different interpretations. It has also happened during the committee's proceedings, and we will see that from some proposals later today. It is proposed to amend the Act on Occupational Pensions so that an open-ended old-age pension – and I stress it – can be regulated in a similar way as pensions during payment are to be regulated. Today, as you know, it's not a reason. The Ministry has registered an interest in having the possibility of such regulation. These changes will make it possible for enterprises wishing to regulate the entitlement to an old-age pension for disabled members to actually do so. Such a change will strengthen the rights of members and, in the view of the majority, represents a reasonable balance between the pension to be paid to them as old-age pensioners, the consideration of those who receive an old-age pension, and also the consideration of the economy of the enterprise. Another proposal in the proposal is to clarify that the contribution fund is to be used to cover the unearned reserve also by the conversion of an occupational pension scheme into a contribution pension scheme. The proposal is a follow-up to a precise legislative change previously announced by the Ministry. It is intended to clarify in the legislative text that the contribution fund is to be used to cover any unreserved premium reserves when converting an occupational pension scheme into a defined contribution scheme. Another amendment is the proposal that workers on statutory leave who have other earned earnings may be declared out of the pension scheme or be subject to specific rules on vesting during the period of leave. The existing provision can easily lead to double-earnings during the period of leave, which, in the view of the majority, is unreasonable. These may be cases that will also apply to political elected representatives. I think it's important to get cleaned up in it. The proposal allows the entity to treat persons with leave and membership of another pension scheme on a non-discriminatory basis during the period of leave – regardless of whether the right to leave is provided for by law or by agreement. As I said, using the provision, you can avoid double-earning during the leave period. I think it's very good to get cleaned up, as this government does. It could be difficult or impossible for the entity to subscribe to the risk benefits of a new defined contribution pension scheme for disabled persons and sick persons, and it may be difficult to calculate the amount of the required premium reserve on the issue of paid-up policies to the sick and disabled in the event of the winding-up of a pension scheme. Because it makes sense to give the entity access to leave sick and unaccompanied in an «closed» pension scheme. In the event of a fresh notification, those who were sick or disabled at the time of conversion shall be transferred to a new pension scheme, in line with other employees. It is proposed to clarify and amend the provision on the use of the contribution fund in the event of reorganisation in the enterprise and to convert a pension scheme into a pension contribution scheme. The proposal implies that the proportion of workers concerned is to be used as a criterion for the allocation of the Fund. The applicable law means that the number of pensioners in the scheme, which is not affected by the reorganisation of the undertaking, could be decisive for the distribution of the contribution fund. The proposal implies that the criterion for allocating the premium fund through reorganisations and transformations becomes more relevant. It appears from the record that various minorities have comments or changes that differ from the majority position, which support the Government’s approach. A minority, consisting of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, will have a change in the law on occupational retirement provision asking the Stortinget to submit proposals for the necessary amendments to the Act on Occupational Pensions, so that it is clear that the basic pension for pensioners, as mentioned in Sections 3 to 2, is 85 pst. by G, as the Advocate General has explained. On the part of the majority, we believe it is right that the relationship between the benefits of popular protection and the employment pension law is further assessed in the announced review of the Employment Pensions Act after all legislative changes in relation to reformed social security have been adopted. A minority, consisting of the members of the Committee from the Party of Advances, Right and Left, disagree with the proposal that it be possible to allow the old-age pension to be regulated in the same way as pensions to be regulated during payment. It appears from the minority note that they do not find any reason to change current practice. I find this a little strange, as the Government's proposal is actually an improvement in relation to today's employment pension law. As mentioned above, the Government’s proposal is a balance between the consideration of the pension they will receive as old-age pensioners, the consideration of those who receive an old-age pension, and the consideration of the enterprise’s finances. If one is to use the surplus fund of pensioners also for the regulation of the old-age pension to disability, it would weaken the fund's ability to regulate current pensions. This means in clear terms that old-age pensioners are not profited from the obligation to regulate a disability pension. If an entity is required to fully cover the additional costs to finance the regulation of an unearned retirement pension, this would increase the entity's costs. For small enterprises, this would result in the cost of such regulation being significant even with a limited number of wrongs. The last point I find to comment on is a comment from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left that they perceive the Government's proposal to clarify that the disability pension from the corporation's pension scheme cannot be paid when reimbursement or rehabilitation is paid out of popular security, as an intimidation. I consider it appropriate to clarify that this is considered to be the law in force where the situation is already that the disability pension provided by the scheme is to supplement the disability pension from the social security fund and is therefore not to be paid in parallel with the receipt of the member's repatriation or rehabilitation allowance. Furthermore, this means that the default benefit from the scheme is payable regardless of whether the member is paid a permanent disability pension or a fixed-term unpaid salary from the social security fund. I think there has been a misunderstanding in those parties as they have shaped their remark in this area. With this, I recommend the majority voting, where there is a discrepancy between the minority and the majority, and the Odelsting joins it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e171	Now both the case rapporteur and, not least, the position spokesperson have gone through this matter quite carefully. There seems to be a great deal of agreement about what the rapporteur was about, and as the representative Jakobsen also said, this with pensions is a complicated matter. Now we haven't been invited to believe so much about the complexity of pension systems, it's taken on other occasions. This applies to minor legislative changes. I think the case rapporteur has done an excellent job. I don't quite agree with him that the simple thing is always the best with regard to pensions. I think to the seventh and last that there are a lot of people who understand what they're really getting in the account, but that this has to be a little bit complicated. Earlier today, there has been a debate here in the United Kingdom on the position of senior citizens in working life, and pensions and pension schemes are important in this context. I also agree with the rapporteur that there may be a relationship here that you may hardly understand or understand, as he says. That's also one of the reasons why we haven't gone into any relationship that hasn't been mentioned in the proposition. The pension settlement in the Storting will bring about changes in the law on occupational pensions. We will await it, and now take a position only on the changes proposed by the Government in this proposition. Our proposals have been advanced so far in the past, and I just want to mention what the representative Jacobsen had to say in his statement on our remark and our proposal for tightening the provision on occupational retirement provision, i.e. that disability pension cannot be paid at the same time as rehabilitation and retirement. I still allow myself to believe that this could mean a reduction in a supposed and agreed safety net in the case of disability for employees with wages between 6 and 12 G. That's of course why we've suggested something else here. I don't go into our other proposals, I just bring up the ones we have promoted either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e184	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e187	As the fleet representative now stated, when the consequences of the major pension agreement in this area, the occupational pensions, are addressed, we may have a slightly wider debate on the different aspects of this. It could have been done on this occasion, but I will also limit myself to some comments about what the Government has invited us to decide on in this bill. Let me first say that one of the greatest differences in the current pension system is perhaps also of the unexplained factors in the future pension system, namely the difference between those who have public service pensions and those who have private schemes. There is no doubt that public pension schemes have been very favourable. In this bill, the Government further clarifies this difference through regulatory tightening, which means that disability pension and occupational pension cannot be paid at the same time as rehabilitation and back-up payments. This change in itself is not entirely illogical, but perhaps not fully thought out. The consequence of the change is that employees with occupational pensions and wages above 6 G will receive a significantly reduced income during rehabilitation and rehabilitation, while employees with a public occupational pension known to have a gross guarantee, which in any case covers 66 pst. of the salary — at least up to 12 G. Therefore, the Left, together with the Right and Christian People's Party, has proposed what I believe is a logical decoration of the legislation in Section 6-1, so that it is partly possible to compensate for loss of income by paying a disability pension given that the period of rehabilitation and resettlement is over 12 months. We are also sceptical about the Government's proposal to amend the Act on Occupational Pensions, Section 5-10, first and third paragraphs, which deals with the regulation of the old-age pension for disabled persons. There has been a general perception that an old-age pension is to be identical to the old-age pension that an employee has when reaching the age limit. This has been a well-established principle that is practically organised so that enterprises have paid one-off premiums to adjust the old-age pension to the right level. This scheme has so far been perceived as fair and has been established as a fixed norm by most in the insurance industry. The left does not see that there should be good arguments to change this, and the Government creates at best confusion with its proposal for a change in the law, where companies still have access to do so, but no obligation. It can create confusion and uncertainty in many workplaces.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e196	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 462]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e212	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e219	What we are going to deal with in this matter are proposals for a new law on securities trading, securities trading laws, and new law on regulated markets, the stock exchange law. The two legislative proposals will implement EEA rules corresponding to Directive 2004/39/EC on markets in financial instruments, abbreviated MiFID, Directive 2004/109/EC on information obligations for printers, the Reporting Directive, and Directive 2004/25/EC on takeover bids. The legislative proposals are based on the Swedish Securities Markets Act Committee’s two partial editions in NOU 2005:17 on takeover bids and NOU 2006:3 on markets in financial instruments Implementation of the MiFID and the Transparency Directive. [[obligatory and voluntary offers for the purchase of companies]] The implementation of the three EU/EEA Directives will continue and in part strengthen the concerns behind current securities trading and stock exchange laws. These Directives provide for a greater degree of harmonisation of key framework conditions for securities markets within the EU/EEA area. The implementation of MiFID in Norwegian law includes, inter alia: investment firms and market places, stock exchanges, etc. to a greater extent than at present would be able to operate within the whole EU/EEA area on the basis of its home country concession. This will increase the supply of investors by choosing brokerage caps, and Norwegian brokerage caps will be more easily able to provide services to customers across the EU/EEA territory. The implementation of the reporting directive in Norwegian law will include, inter alia: imply that companies and other providers of financial instruments are subject to harmonised reporting rules throughout the EU/EEA area, which may make it easier and cheaper for enterprises to raise capital in the European securities market. The implementation of the Takeover Offer Directive facilitates greater integration of European markets by creating a common framework for takeover bids for companies engaged in trading on a regulated market within the EEA territory. The Directive lays down basic rules for the purchase of companies with axles listed on a regulated market of an EEA State. The main thrust of the Directive is the protection of minority shareholders. In line with the proposal of the Securities Markets Committee, a new Securities Trading Act and a new law on regulated markets are proposed. There was more to it than flaking the previous laws. In the vast majority of areas, the Financial Committee is gathering on this matter. But not in all areas. The ministry and the majority go beyond the requirements of the directives in some areas. It's a part of the opposition that's strongly disagreed with. There is also a point that there are some things that can create interpretation problems, and that should therefore be a little clearer. These laws regulate an area where there are large sums involved, and if there are interpretation problems and uncertainties, it can cost a lot of money. I want to take the three parts for myself, and start with the implementation of MiFID, the proposition's part I. Here's the deal for most points. This section ensures that in most areas Norway has the same framework for financial markets as our neighbouring countries. That's obviously very positive. However, an overall opposition notes that in some areas, one suggests that the Norwegian financial industry should have different and stricter rules than the financial industries in other EEA countries. It's not that positive. Stricter framework conditions may result in an unfortunate distortion of competition that makes it difficult to see the consequences, especially in the longer term. This applies, inter alia, to: the limits on added and associated agents in securities take-overs to save in axes and unit trusts. Here, the rules are much stricter than the rules for securities undertakings which have their principal seats in other EEA countries. As a result, the EEA securities companies which have branches in Norway will have different and less stringent rules in this field than Norwegian securities holders in Norway. The rules to be adopted today will also apply initially to credit institutions providing only limited investment services. On this basis, I refer to the Securities Trading Act § 1-3, where it is permissible for the Government to draw up a regulation to exempt some of those who provide restricted investment services from, among other things. obligation (a) to carry out audio tape recordings. I assume that the Ministry of Finance and the Government will go into this thoroughly and consider such an exemption. The case-speaker also notes that there is broad agreement that flexibility should be demonstrated so that smaller banks and the banks of their branch networks are not subject to unnecessary organisational requirements. It appears in comments both from the multiples and from the opposition. I hope, and of course assume, that the department will follow it up. It is of particular importance both in terms of competition and in terms of the need for the most nationally-based distribution of different banking services and supply. In the case of Part II of the Proposition, Implementation of the Reporting Directive, this includes, inter alia: the so-called ‘flagged’. The directive means that the obligation to flag can now be triggered without any trade, i.e. in the event of passivity. It can be discussed how sensible it is, but at least that is the way the rules are, and one has also followed the directive. When it comes to language, the Securities Markets Selection divided into a multiple and a minority on the question of the language to be used when publishing information. The minority in the selection proposed that one could provide the information in Norwegian, Swedish, Danish or English, and several hearing bodies, among which the Credit Authority has supported this. The ministry here supports the majority of people and suggests that only Norwegian can be used. The credit supervision may, however, derogate from this and delegate to Oslo Børs the right to waive. Nevertheless, it is a general rule that only Norwegian can be used for information purposes. For prospectuses, there are no corresponding requirements, cf. § 7-17 of the bill, which states that prospectuses should be drawn up initially in Norwegian, Swedish, Danish or English. As a result, there is a legal difference in the case of general information and in the case of prospectuses. I would also like to add that some companies, including Statoil, hold his meeting in English, but when information is to be given, he must be in Norwegian. Anyway, this is not a big problem, because most companies are initially presenting the information in Norwegian, so one should not dramatize the significance of this. I also assume that the Credit Authority, possibly Oslo Børs, will dispensate from this if it is deliberate. In the case of Part III, the implementation of the Takeover bids Directive, the majority proposes to set the supply obligation limit at 33,3 p.m., against today's 40 p.m. Many other countries operate with a limit of 30 pst. This means that Norway may differ from what appears to be a European standard. A number of bodies have raised questions to the Financial Committee on several aspects of the rules on supply obligations. Several takeover situations in recent years have shown that the rules are unclear, giving rise to a number of disputes. Acquiring situations are strongly focused in the financial market and involve large values. Therefore, the potential for reliance on the Norwegian market is significant if the framework is not sufficiently clear. Therefore, the Government should keep under review the need for a holistic review of the rules on takeover situations, below this mandatory level of 33,3 pst. versus 30 pst. I also suppose that the department will do as soon as you get some experience with these laws, as well as with the regulations that are allowed in these laws. Finally, I would like to make the minority proposals that the Progress Party is behind either alone or together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e261	The representative of Gjermund Hageseter has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e264	When Odelstinget now deals with new securities trading laws and new stock exchange laws, I would like to stress that there has been thorough preparatory work both through partial investigations and the process carried out by the department. The proposal follows up the two sub-investigations of the Securities Markets Committee in NOU 2005:17 on takeover bids and NOU 2006:3 on markets in financial instruments, respectively. The case has, of course, also been given considerable attention by various organisations even after it came to Stortinget. It is enough to look at the written enquiries that have come. The proposal is in three parts, where implementation of the MiFID or EU Securities Markets Directive is addressed in Part I, implementation of the Reporting Directive is addressed in Part II and new regulatory provisions on offer are addressed in Part III. In the case of the EU Securities Markets Directive, it is such that it has rules for investment firms and for regulated markets. MiFID also contains very comprehensive and detailed legislation requiring the development of Norwegian law in this field. A large part of these rules are of a technical nature. I will try to focus on some of the main points in relation to the implementation of MiFID, namely the following: Investment advice becomes a new concessional service.Waste derivatives are fully subject to the provisions of the Securities Trading Act. This means, among other things: that entities trading in the power derivative market will be subject to a concession obligation and to the provisions of the Securities Trading Act. The rules applicable to the self-trade of employees are mainly proposed, but these rules may not be applied to branches of EEA undertakings operating in Norway, as the rapporteur was concerned. – I want to add that MiFID states that branches of such EEA companies must have their own rules or guidelines. So it is certainly not certain that we are operating a more stringent line in Norway than that of branches of EEA companies in Norway. The current restrictions on the ownership of stock exchanges are proposed to be continued, but it is announced in the proposal that an evaluation is to be carried out as to whether these rules will continue to be the most appropriate instrument in the future in order to ensure fundamental consideration behind the provisions. Here the Government/Ministry has announced that they will set up a separate working group. It is largely in agreement with the Committee of the Government's legislative proposals on the implementation of the MiFID. However, there are different minorities from the opposition who have comments on some areas. I see that the Progress Party and the Right do not agree with the majority's proposal for amendments to the applicable Securities Fund Act § 2-1. I am a little surprised that they do not agree with this whole proposal, as the proposed amendment specifies that detailed rules should be laid down on investment advice by the investment fund. It follows from MiFID that, like investment firms’ advice, these activities are to be subject to the MiFID rules. With regard to the legislative proposal, I see that an overall opposition ‘states that in some areas it is proposed that the Norwegian financial industry should be regulated differently and more stringently than the financial industry in other EEA countries’. To me, it seems a little bit unclear what the minority means by that. MiFID is essentially a full harmonisation directive, i.e. that there is no possibility of setting stricter national requirements than those resulting from the Directive. In the majority's view, it was followed up in the proposition. Then, in some areas, more stringent national rules are available. As far as I can see, only the rules on self-trafficking of employees are stricter than those resulting from the directive. The proposal also announces an assessment of stricter rules in a future regulation on information requirements for the sale of composite products. Furthermore, it is a part of the existing rules or legislation that is being passed on – and I stress being continued – and that is not covered by the MiFID. For example, the grant of credit, etc. In Part II of the Proposition, on the implementation of the Reporting Directive, the Government intends to ‘aim to harmonise the requirements on the information that issuers and holders of transferable securities admitted to trading on a regulated market must provide to the market’. In addition, it provides for the publication of such information. I see that the minority in its comments focuses on the obligation to flag, the obligation to notify – in which the rapporteur was involved – the languages in which information is to be provided, and the voting authorisation. With regard to point 4 of the suspension, on the implementation of the Takeover Offer Directive, etc., the central consideration behind the offer obligation rules is the protection of minority shareholders in the target company. In the following, I would like to focus on two issues in the committee's treatment and attitude that have attracted considerable attention or discussion – both before and after this matter came to Stortinget. One relates to the obligation to provide services. The Government has proposed to lower the offer obligation limit from the acquisition of shares representing more than 40 pst. by the votes of the company, to one third of the votes of the company. The majority have agreed to that. A minority, consisting of the Christian People's Party and the Left, has, as you know, been in favour of setting the obligation limit to 30 pst, and not 1/3, as proposed by the Government. To that I would say that a majority of the law committee suggested lowering the limit to 1/3. The consultation opinions have also been shared on this issue. For example, Lo and NHO proposed 1/3, while Lo and NHO proposed a further one-third. Oslo Børs and Norges Bank proposed 30 p.m. A reduction from 40 pst. to 1/3 is a significant reduction. For my part, I want to add that 1/3 is a limit that can also give minority shareholders a negative majority. So I think this limit makes sense. The same minority proposes the introduction of rules on subsequent compensation, i.e.: a provision that the offeror ‘purchases or contracts to purchase at a higher price than the offer price within six months of the end of the offer period shall pay the difference between the maximum paid or agreed price and the offer price to shareholders who have accepted the offer’. To the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left, I would like to point out that it is not that a rule of subsequent compensation is common in all other countries. There are rules for this in Sweden and in England, yes, but these are countries that have organised their supply rules in a completely different way from Norway. They have regulated this through extensive sector regulation, and not – I do not stress – through regulatory regulation. This means that Sweden and England largely allow private organisations to design and enforce the rules on the obligation to provide services. This means, in clear terms, that the rules are not given in the form of legislation but are an industry standard. In my view, the comparison between Norway and these two countries is less relevant. With this, I recommend that Odelstinget vote in favour of the majority vote, where the committee is not unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e318	It is with this case as with the previous one: it is a complex piece of legislation, but a code that ultimately gives some results to individuals. In this case, business, stock exchange operators and investments are involved. What you have to try to have in mind here is maybe not the big operations, but what's happening in the individual workplace. So what are the results going to be? That is why competition is important. It has been important for us in terms of the proposals we have agreed to. We do not want there to be any stricter conditions for Norwegian enterprises, either in Norway or internationally, than is necessary. And on the savings side, we've been talking a lot about saving lately, and also about the lack of savings incentives, but a narrowing that I think will be a disadvantage for competition – perhaps also for users to the seventh and last. That is why this area is important. Another area that is important, as we write in a note with the Progress Party, is the translation of MiFID in terms of ownership transfer services in small and medium-sized enterprises. When securities laws, fund laws and these kinds of things are discussed, little is thought of small and medium-sized enterprises. They have a problem with a change of ownership. It is a fact – statistical – that in the years to come, very many of the businesses that were established in the postwar period will change owners. It also has something to do with time going, generations coming and going. That's why this is very important. Finally, with the flag rules: we're part of the majority here. But I might not think this 30 pst. 40 pst. or 33 1/3 is significant. The most important thing in the context of business takeovers on the stock exchange and very crucial for employees, perhaps for corner stone companies, is a comprehensive overview of what is needed for this to work well. Flag duty is one part. I think there are a lot of other relationships that play in. Our recommendation to the Government to look at the total I think is quite important for Norwegian business. In addition, the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job, has already addressed the proposals on which we agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e333	The case rapporteur has gone through the entire proposition and setting thoroughly. I will therefore limit myself to addressing the areas where the Christian People's Party, together with others, has views that are somewhat different from the majority position. The first question is when to make the offer. As Alf E. Jakobsen was inside, Christian People's Party and Left propose that the limit be set at 30 p.m. I can agree that 3.3 pst., which is different from the position of the majority, is not necessarily so much, but as part of strengthening the interests of minority shareholders, we have, like rather heavy hearing bodies, chosen to propose 30 pst. The second point is to ensure that different share representatives are treated equally when there is an offer for the purchase of shares. The representative Alf E. Jakobsen pointed out that the rules in Sweden and in the United Kingdom are not so relevant to comparison, because they are not statutory but certainly within the industry. Well, our comparison with Sweden and the United Kingdom is an additional element. The most important thing for us is to strengthen protection, so that there is no discrimination when offering to different shareholder groups. That is the main background for us, together with the Left, to promote a proposal which is, as far as I know, in line with the majority in the legislative committee. These are our aberrant proposals. Otherwise, we're supporting the proposition. So I'm just going to say in the end that one of the government parties has sometimes had a slightly more strenuous relationship with the stock exchange than other parties in this room. I have noticed that there is a completely different situation now, since the majority – and this includes SV – notes initially that the majority ‘will in particular bring forward the increased investor protection and competition to which the proposal refers’. So here there's definitely a development in the vision of some parties. With this I address the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which have been promoted together with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e348	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e351	I would like to comment on five points – first the EU Securities Markets Directive, MiFID. The minority, at the Progress Party and the Right, suggests that the investment service definition, § 2-1, first paragraph, No. 6, which is a number. 6 and 7 of the MiFID Annex 1 Part A, are translated more directly and in two points, following input from the Investment and Private Banking Association in Norway, etc. The Government Parties refer to letters from the Minister of Finance dated 4 May dated to questions from Mr Gjermund Hagesetter concerning this merger, where it appears that none of these changes are intended to bring about any change in reality in relation to MiFID. MiFID is a directive and not a regulation. This implies that the rules do not need to be implemented word law and that national authorities can choose how the obligations should be implemented in national law. The MiFID Directive can be implemented in the manner proposed in the wording of the bill because the Ministry of Finance believes that the wording of the bill is better than that of the MiFID text than that of the Norwegian legal tradition and law. So this means that Section 2-1, first paragraph, of the bill. 6 and No 7 in the Securities Trading Act shall be interpreted in such a way that both (a) the subscription of collateral for financial instruments and/or the placement of financial instruments with firm commitments and (b) the placement of financial instruments without a firm commitment is to be regarded as two different investment services and to which the credit supervision may consequently issue a concession when approving an application with or without binding commitments. The next item is organisational requirements for smaller banks and branch networks. I would like to refer to the majority comment of the government parties under Chapter 2, where it says: ‘The majority have noted that the Ministry considers that flexibility can be demonstrated so that smaller banks and the branch network of the banks are not subject to unnecessary organisational requirements. This applies in particular to the services of investment advice and order brokerage that banks have been able to provide without concession to date. The majority believe that this flexibility should be taken into account in the design and practice of the regulatory framework. At the same time, the majority would point out that it is important that small and medium-sized banks should also be able to provide such services, both in terms of competition and the need for the widest possible distribution across the country. At the same time, it is important to provide for a level playing field between investment advisory banks and other investment advisory undertakings.» The next point is ownership control rules for stock exchanges. The proposal announces that an evaluation will be carried out as to whether the rules on ownership of stock exchanges will continue to be the most appropriate instrument in the future in order to ensure the fundamental reasons behind the provisions, and a working group will be set up to address these issues. Today, the limit is 10 p.m., while DnB NOR has received a derogation from merger to own up to 20 p.m. An exchange is a regulated trading venue. As a centre party, I think it is unfortunate that dominant players on the stock exchange are also big owners of the stock exchange. With regard to the Reporting Directive, which has been passed by several parties, point 20.5 of the Legislative Proposition states that the proposal to provide information as a general rule in Norwegian depends on a weighing-up of several considerations. In the proposal, the Ministry has given decisive attention to Norwegian investors, and it is noted that consideration for foreign investors can be continued through the continuation of a provision allowing for exemption from the requirement of Norwegian language. This position is supported by the Centre Party. Finally, the Takeover Offer Directive. It is proposed to lower the offer obligation limit from the acquisition of shares from 40 p.m. of the shares in the company of one third of the shares in the company. It is proposed to introduce repeated offer obligations by acquisitions of more than 40 and/or 50 pst. of the shares in the company and these limits will apply in addition to the one-third limit. A contentious issue has been whether there should be legal rules on subsequent compensation, i.e.: an obligation for the offeror to compensate previous shareholders if more shares are purchased at a higher price than the offer price within six months of the end of the offer period. The legislative committee and the hearing bodies have been divided on this issue. The bill does not propose rules on this, but the bill will, overall, significantly strengthen the rights of minority shareholders in relation to today. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that if the offeror of shares tries to circumvent the non-discrimination requirement of the offer rules for shareholders by negotiating with larger and more demanding shareholders after the offer has been made, in order to avoid paying the negotiated price to all shareholders, this shall be affected by the general prohibition of unfair commercial practices in paragraphs 3 to 9 of the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e375	I will not follow up on the representative Syversen by assessing whether this case is an expression of SV's new love for the stock exchange. I'm going to think there's not so much warm emotion, anyway, here. I also refer to the initial remarks made by the rapporteur on what this matter is all about, and what we are broadly in agreement about. However, I would like to mention some aspects that are very important to the Left, namely those relating to information and transparency, but also some aspects relating to privacy, to which I shall come back a little bit. In my view, strict rules governing saving in different financial instruments are important and correct in order to strengthen citizens' rights. However, it is important for the Left to stress that we do not see the need for stricter rules for the financial industry in Norway than for the financial industry in other EEA countries. Stricter framework conditions may result in both capital and enterprises moving to other countries or choosing to move outside Norway. It could offer lower offers and less competition in the Norwegian financial environment. Another consequence of different levels of discrimination through a stricter Norwegian legislation is that there will be a competitive advantage for foreign enterprises that have branches in Norway. This applies not only in relation to recruiting skilled labour, but also in relation to, for example: what banks can offer of ancillary services, such as: investment advice and order brokering. A small, but important part of the legislative changes proposed by the Government is to extend the rules on sound recording of conversations between customer advisors and customers in credit institutions. This is a legislative amendment that the Left does not support for many reasons. On the one hand, it is justified by privacy considerations and, on the other hand, by the fact that this works unnecessarily and poorly thought out. I show you, among other things: to the objections raised by the Main Financial Industry Organisation that the proposal is not sufficiently coherent and that there should at least be an exemption from the obligation to make sound recordings for undertakings providing only limited investment services. With regard to the so-called Reporting Directive, there has been a fairly large debate on the language to be used for the publication of information. Many hearing bodies, including the Credit Authority, supported the minority in the Value Market Law Committee, which proposed that different information could be provided in Norwegian, Swedish, Danish or English. The left supports the proposals made in the setting to provide information in Norwegian in a number of cases – this to ensure that the most relevant information is available. Finally, the last Directive, the Takeover Offer Directive, where a fairly large debate has taken place on the proposal to lower the offer obligation limit from 40 p.m. to one third of the shares in the company – or 33 pst. – and the proposal to impose repeated obligations to provide services. I refer you to the post of the representative Syversen, who made proposals on behalf of the Left and Christian People's Party. Our strong commitment and argument for this is linked to what the Left has a long tradition of strengthening the interests of minority shareholders. The fact that this too is feasible is shown, among other things. by the fact that these are rules that exist in Sweden and the United Kingdom. The proposal also has the support of Oslo Børs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e390	There are some speakers who have tried to get this debate to focus on feelings and love life. I don't intend to follow up on that. This is that we are now implementing three EEA-relevant EU directives in Norwegian law and that the proposals include: will contribute to increased investor protection, a more efficient securities market and a strengthening of minority shareholders’ rights. I note that there is a fairly broad consensus in the Storting on what is behind, and I believe that both the rapporteur and the other speakers in the debate have carefully gone through all the partly complex aspects of these changes. I just need to comment on two things that have been central to the discussion. One relates to the implementation of MiFID and to what has been and has been stressed by several speakers, namely that the Government proposes stricter rules on the self-trafficking of employees than is initially required. The point is that MiFID is essentially a full harmonisation directive, i.e. that there is no possibility of setting stricter national requirements than those resulting from the Directive. That's the starting point. It's followed up in the proposition. However, in some respects there is the possibility of providing stricter national rules. Only the rules relating to the self-trade of employees are more stringent than those resulting from the Directive. It is also announced in the proposal that we consider stricter rules in a future regulation on information requirements for the sale of composite products. The main reason why the Government proposes this is not to create barriers to competition vis-à-vis Norwegian businesses against other EEA enterprises, but to ensure that we have a system that ensures that there is confidence in the Norwegian securities market as such. It is true that the proposed rules we are promoting here would not be applicable to branches of EEA companies operating in Norway because MiFID does not. It implies that there will be different rules applicable to Norwegian investment firms and EEA firms operating here in Norway. However, according to MiFID, such EEA undertakings must lay down their own rules and guidelines for self-trafficking by employees. It has therefore not been granted that such EEA branches would confer a competitive advantage over Norwegian undertakings. Furthermore, we have stressed that stricter self-trading rules in Norwegian companies increase confidence in these companies and thus constitute a competitive advantage. It's just a balance for different reasons on this issue. We believe that by setting a high standard for Norwegian companies, their trust will also be at a high level. So to what's about the obligation to offer. Here the Christian People's Party and the Left have proposed that we not only go from 40 p.m. to 40 p.m. One-third, but from 40 to 30 pst. We haven't gone into this. There is a significant change that the Government proposes by going from 40 pst. To a third. That the Christian People's Party and the Left want to go further along that road, we just get to find ourselves in. We believe that we have found a balance in this matter that ensures that we have a good protection for minority shareholders.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e402	The speakers who have the floor hereafter have a speaking time of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e405	I would like to comment on a small but important area in the comprehensive law – perhaps what is most relevant to people most, namely investment advice. More and more are in the situation that they have enough wealth, i.e. that they're rich enough to invest. Of course, most people know of the possibility of creating a right-wing account, but the return is not all the world, and the financial market can offer a number of products, with the possibility of much greater returns. But with this, there is also an increased risk. It is complicated to get into the securities market. Therefore, a separate market has emerged for investment advisors. There are not a few stories you have been able to read about for years, over and over, about people who have lost a lot of money because of poor financial advice. Many banks and investment companies are scapegoats. They have acted in a reprehensible way in relation to advising customers about investments, but they are, after all, under the supervision of the credit supervision that has intensified their control, especially after the changes in the law that we have made here in the hall. They've also been involved, most recently in relation to Acta, where the Credit Authority could reveal that they had key personnel who lacked competence. The main organisation of the financial industry also has a separate industry code. They have increased the focus on these problems and followed this closely. But investment advisors have lived their own lives and as such have not been subject to concession. That's why it's been free for this group. Therefore, it is good for Norwegian hobby investors that we now implement the EU MiFID Directive, including. investment advice becomes a concessional service. It will strengthen consumers' rights in an area where there is a great deal of money involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e416	I thought I would make some comments about what the Minister of Finance is talking about when it comes to the rules on own-trade, which are considerably stricter than the directive originally proposed. I then thought it important that a line be drawn below and that the directive also had significant regulations in this area, so that it is not free to be added at the outset, even if one had fully complied with the directive, to save in axles and unit trusts. But here in Norway, a choice has been made to go beyond these strict rules that the directive lays down initially. It seems to me that I would create a problem – it means the industry at least – in relation to recruitment, if it turns out now that the branches of EEA enterprises that establish themselves in Norway have significantly better and less stringent rules, from which they add their stand. It has been argued by the Minister of Finance that this would be a competitive advantage because it would show that Norwegian companies have a higher standard than competing companies registered in the EEA country but have branches in Norway. I don't think the higher standard will be a competitive advantage, and I don't think customers will choose securities transactions on the basis of whether or not they are allowed to trade. The high standard, I think, would have introduced the industry a long time ago if this had really been a competitive advantage. Such rules are laid down in this law, it would be difficult for adding agents and agents to drive to save in liquid shafts, while there would be something easier in illiquid shafts. There's a difference that's a little strange, because there might be illiquid companies -- companies in which there's a very low turnover -- that should have been the biggest point of avoiding dealing in, while in large Norwegian companies, like Hydro, Statoil, Telenor, etc. should have been less problematic to add to save. So here it's the other way around, and I think it's a weakness with this law. I hope the finance minister will reconsider it when you get some experience with the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e427	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 465]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e443	It is a unanimous committee that promotes the legislative changes that emerge in the proposition of the Government. The proposals we are considering today are first proposals for legal rules that facilitate the reorganisation of a credit institution organised as a association so that a credit institution which continues to operate becomes a subsidiary of the association itself. The proposal opens the possibility for the Landkredit Group to be reorganised so that Landkredit Bank and a credit company both become subsidiaries of the Landkredit association. Furthermore, it is proposed that the Executive Director, the Executive Director, should no longer be a member of the Management Board of a financing undertaking. The proposal will contribute to clearer competences and responsibilities between the management and administration of the undertaking. Furthermore, it is also proposed that persons who have received a secret address by decision of the public register need not provide their address for the creation and continuation of customer relations in banks and a derogation from the obligation of banks to record their permanent address in such cases. The requirement under the applicable legislation that address must be provided, inter alia: when opening a bank account, create practical problems for persons with a secret address. The aim of this part of the bill is to limit the practical problems facing people with secret addresses in everyday life. As I said, this is a unanimous position of the Financial Committee. I would nevertheless point out that the minority, consisting of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, have some comments relating to the proposition's first proposal, concerning Landcredit. I just want to refer to the comments, so that it is done, and hope, of course, that the Minister of Finance records the comments, even though there is not a majority behind them. ‘The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left shall be required by the Ministry of Credit and Finance, when approving the new group model, to make no demands on the statutes of the association which alter the substance of the association’s objectives or membership criteria. Where the ownership association is established through the conversion of a credit association, the basis for membership of the credit association shall be capable of being continued through the criteria for membership of the ownership association. These members refer to the fact that Landkredit has been concerned that in the process of change, which is to be carried out on commercial terms, there is no possibility of triggering tax or tax liabilities other than those already in the group. These members assume that the Department assumes that such a transition must be handled in a smooth manner and based on the fact that it does not take place in a discriminatory manner. These members refer to the fact that the Financial Activities Act contains provisions of a corporate law nature relating to associations. These members assume that from the date of the existence and entry into force of the cooperative law, the company law provisions of the cooperative law will take precedence over the financing activity law, cf. the Financial Activities Act, § 2a-10.’ As I said, I hope that the Minister of Finance will record those comments as well. It is a unanimous committee that promotes the legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e467	The rapporteur, Ulf Leirstein, has made a clear statement on the position of the Committee on Finance, which we are now considering, on the law on amendments to the Financial Activities Act and some other laws. The proposition opens up changes to allow a credit union to become the parent of a financial group. It is a sensible solution and allows the Landcredit Group to be reorganised so that Landcredit Bank and a credit company both become subsidiaries of the Landcredit Association. The proposal is a follow-up to the Banking Law Commission’s investigation into group credit union. It endorses the Government's proposal for amendments, but within the meaning of paragraph 2 there is a difference between the minority and the majority's comment on the extent to which the Committee is to be chaired in the form of an observation. This is the case under Chapter 2, which deals with credit union as a top of the group. In this respect, the minority partly gives strong leadership to the Credit Authority and the Ministry for the treatment of future statutory issues, tax and tax obligations, and which legislation should prevail. Adjustments are made to make a stronger distinction between the Board of Directors and the Board of Directors, where the obligation to be a member of the Board of Directors is suspended in the same way as for savings banks and commercial banks. This is a change and harmonisation between different laws that make sense. A stronger distinction is needed between the Management Board and the Administrative Board, and it is also an important principle that the Executive Director or the Executive Director should be appointed by the Management Board. Last but not least, I think it is very good that people who for various reasons have been given a decision in the People's Register on a secret address should not have to provide their address when creating and continuing customer relations in banks. This is a good mechanism to limit the challenges facing people with secret addresses. These people face problems that we rarely think about in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e480	When you read the setting in this case, you can easily get a little confused. That's why I thought I'd say a little about what's the main point. Our government is very pleased with the collaboration. Our government has taken the promise for the cooperative that the previous government did not take. We have promoted the cooperative law, we have put in place a new law on cooperative organisation, because we believe it is an important way to organise society, which strengthens democracy, and which strengthens the community that owns in terms of ways to operate. We are now submitting this law, in order to enable Landkreditt to operate in the way that they need. This never did the previous government, but we're doing it now. That's good, and now we're in place with these things. We have not joined the comments from the opposition, among other things. Because we don't want to join that kind of detail regulation. But it is clear that the spirit of the proposal, and the fact that we are promoting the proposal, shows that we are prepared to find a good solution in this matter. So just a side note about this that goes to the secret address when setting up a customer relationship. This is an important cleanup in a relationship that many women who live on code 6 have struggled with, which we now get in place. It's also an important step in our work to ensure that people who are subjected to family violence and close relationships get better protection than they have so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e491	I feel the need to address issues of credit union as a group point. Changes in legislation proposed in this setting are the result of the fact that Landkredit is a credit association that wanted to be able to own and operate a bank and perhaps also engage in insurance. Historically, banks, insurance and mortgages have been kept separate, and as late as 1988, when we were given the applicable Finance Act, this was the general rule. If we look at the financial sector, from the first banking institutions in Norway to today, developments are marked by legal and regulatory barriers for savings banks versus commercial banks. Insurance activities were largely cooperative, with mutual companies. In the mortgage area with bond issuing entities, we had a number of credit associations for a period. Compared to other European countries, the most striking difference is the absence of cooperative banks, or cooperative banks. The principle that was followed for banks seems to be that ownership would take place through the share company model, or that the institutions would be sealords. I cannot see, however, that the share model was rejected until the first version of the Finance Act in 1976 did not include shares as the permitted form of company. As a result, the only unit-sized financial corporation we had at that time was ordered by the Bank Inspection in 1979 to transform into a limited liability company or financial institution. This mix of financial activities for financial groups, which has characterised the developments in the financial sector since 1989-1990 and up to the present day, had a concrete starting point in UNI/Storebrand, where the Stortinget, by adding Chapter III of the Financial Activities Act in 1990, opened up to the transformation of cooperative financial institutions into limited liability companies and public limited liability companies. In 1991, the financial group was opened up further, either as a mixed group or after what is called the holding model. In the context of these changes, the logical consequence was that the permitted group structure and scope of activity of an insurance company also had to apply mutatis mutandis to a bank. The credit institutions were not materialised in this context. The documents from that time only show a confirmation of an attitude which was not subject to investigation or discussion. We have also had a change in the law with the aim that savings banks and mutual insurance companies could be included in the same group. Today’s case is a consequence and an illustration of the development of a lot of financial legislation based on concrete issues faced by financial sector enterprises. In 1998, the Banking Commission presented a proposal for a new Financial Undertaking Act, the Fourth Banking Commission Report, NOW 1998:14. It has not been further dealt with, and through subsequent NOUs many new assessments have been made, and a number of legislative changes have occurred. The fourth report of the Banking Law Commission indicated that at that time only one credit association, Landkreditt, was being proposed that it should no longer be permitted to start new associations. The Banking Law Commission, in its 8th Report, NOU 2002:14, reiterated this proposal and finally, in its 15th Report, NOU 2006:17, provided the basis for today’s legislative change. We must note that no analysis has been made of why we in Norway have not facilitated cooperative banking activities in Norway through policy measures, laws and rules. We must also be able to see that the technical basis for imposing very restrictive concession conditions on Landcredit at its establishment in 2002 and treatment in 2004 was not present. For the historically interested person, it is possible to see traces of thought goods from the Sagbakken Committee issued in 1971 and the Meinich Committee issued in 1974, which preceded the first Finance Act of 1976. Previous arguments have been largely rejected by the Banking Law Commission’s assessment of Landkreditt in its 15th report. In the meantime, a group of savings banks have also found it reasonable to establish a new credit union for just savings banks. Work on new cooperative law, NOU 2002:6, has made more fundamental assessments of the applicability of cooperatives as corporate and corporate forms. In the investigation, it was considered that the user benefit is the central one, and concerns about the clarification of ownership through the form of participation in relation to the form of association have been given less attention. This is expressed by making this a corporate law. The SPC also states that the form of cooperation should not be rejected as it stands in some areas of society. I am referring to the fact that the Landcredit in the process that has led to this amendment of the law has considered that the discretionary exercise that is behind the restrictive conditions might as well have ended with the conclusion that it was not necessary to impose such conditions within the framework of the applicable law. The lack of fundamental clarity in the law that this case illustrates, I would ask the Ministry of Finance to include in the mandate of the Banking Law Commission in the process of completing a new Financial Enterprise Act. In this context, I also refer to the input made in the consultation opinion on this matter that has not been included in the legislative amendment proposal, and mention in particular that the provision on cooperative-based group head is not general, and that this has not taken the form of a general impact. I assume that the cooperative law provides for full freedom in the financial sector to choose cooperative-based solutions without discrimination against the corporate form or the associated conditions. Finally, it's nice to see that in the setting, both the opposition and the position, you're positive to what's happening here. And as SV's fiscal spokesman said, it was just to be lacking that the government, which is cooperative as a natural form of company in line with the form of a limited liability company, does not treat the various ways of organizing its business in a non-discriminatory way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e514	The President would like to remind you that the regulatory time of the morning's meeting is over. The President assumes that the debate on this matter and the next case will be reasonably limited, and will therefore propose that the meeting continue beyond the regulatory period until the current map is completed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e519	I need to link a few comments to the post from SVs Heikki Holmås. I understand from the debate today that SV's enthusiasm for the stock exchange may have led to the need to link the former government parties not so strongly to the cooperative. I just want to remind you – and get in the record – that the cooperative company Landkreditt applied for and was allowed to establish Landkreditt Bank under the previous government. It was some of us who had a big fight for it, and we who did it are very much too cooperative. I would also like to say, for the sake of the record and history, that in the case of my own law of cooperation, it was brought into the current political agenda as part of the political foundation of the Bondevik I government on the waxenåsen. Then the work started with a separate cooperative law. I can be so indiscriminate to tell you that there was a strong struggle from the then centre party leader, Enoxsen and the undersigned, who made it come in as a separate formulation. A separate sample was set up to investigate this. Work started on what seems to culminate in a separate cooperative law in a short time. The cooperative has broad support, and far beyond the government parties in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e530	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 507]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e546	We go overtime, and I'll try to be short. The case we are dealing with, on the law on amendments to the insurance law, joint pension funds, has its background in a decision of the Stortinget on 26 May 2005, where the Government was asked to promote joint pension fund legislation for several private enterprises, without a single contribution scheme. The size of the pension scheme is a proposal for a legal framework that allows several independent undertakings to join together and set up a single pension fund for the pension scheme of the institutions. I just want to say that there is a unanimous vote by the Financial Committee on all points, except for the proposal to the Insurance Act § 7-2, third paragraph, point (f), where the Committee has split into a majority, consisting of all parties other than the Advance Party, Right and Left, and a minority. In the view of the majority, the changes now proposed by the Government are sensible for reasons of increased competition in the market for pension insurance. Furthermore, the majority point out that such cooperation as is envisaged here can provide economies of scale and cost savings. I do not find any reason for a longer debate, but recommend the Committee's position on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e568	It is always inspiring to hear representatives from the Workers' Party use words as ‘strengthened competition in the market’. Then there is calmness also upon us Right-wing people. It is true, as the rapporteur says, that there is a great deal of agreement on this matter. The only thing is a proposal on which the Progress Party, the Right and the Left stand together. It is justified by the rules of the move in the bill, which do not give – but may under certain circumstances give – restrictions on the ability of undertakings to move pension schemes. I will then not extend the time beyond to address that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e577	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e580	I just want to say that now it's the turn of the trade union movement, because what we're doing now is the first step on the way to creating better and wider pension schemes for more people here in the country. This arrangement, such as: having its background in the Soria Moria Declaration and also in a previous Decision, is extremely important, and it improves the ability of the trade union movement to promote requirements that can ensure that we achieve both gender neutrality and age neutrality in all possible ways in pension conditions. This is something that municipal employees have managed to get through KLP. If we are able to get this wider, we have now, on the part of our government, arranged to strengthen the ability of the trade union movement to get an impact on it. I think it's a pleasure that there's so much excitement about this in Stortinget. That's all it is to say.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e587	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 508]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e595	Odelstinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e603	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left Amendment No. 2, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 3, from Christian Tybring-Gjedde on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e690	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 24 March 2000 16 on occupational retirement provision is amended as follows:Sections 5 to 10 new last paragraph are replaced by the following:The pension agreement may provide for the regulation of old-age pensions for members who are unearned at the same time and at the same percentage as any adjustment of the disability pension. [[Entrepreneurship Pensions Act]] The adjustment is made upon the single payment of the annual regulatory premium. This premium shall be shown separately in the accounts of the insurer.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e713	There is an alternative proposal, proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 24 March 2000 16 if occupational retirement provision is amended as follows:Section 6-1, third paragraph, is replaced by the following:If, more than 12 months after the acquisition capacity has been reduced, the part of the disability pension exceeding the level of the rehabilitation and rehabilitation allowance may be paid out of the social security.’ [[Entrepreneurship Pensions Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e902	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e916	The remaining paragraphs under I and II will then be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e988	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e998	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e1006	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Gærmund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the Right and Left motion No. 2 by Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal,
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e4826	The President will first vote alternately between the appointment of the Committee to A Chapter 6, Section 6-1, first paragraph, and proposal No 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The first paragraph of Section 6-1 of the Securities Trading Act is replaced by the following: the person who by acquisition becomes the owner of shares representing more than 30 pst. [[1]] by the votes of a Norwegian company whose shares are listed on the Norwegian regulated market Provider who purchases or contracts a purchase at a higher price than the offer price within six months of the end of the offer period, shall pay the difference between the maximum paid or agreed price and the offer price to shareholders who have accepted the offer. [[4]] This does not apply, however, if, in accordance with the rules laid down in this Chapter, a voluntary offer is made to the company other than the offeror.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e4848	As an alternative, between the Committee's setting up of A Chapter 2, Section 2-1, first paragraph, paragraphs 6 and 7, and proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Sec. 2-1, first paragraph, No. 6 to 8 shall be replaced by:6. subscription of guarantee for financial instruments and/or placing of financial instruments with binding commitments.7. placing of financial instruments without a firm commitment.8. the operation of the multilateral trading facility as defined in the fourth paragraph of Section 2-3.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e4869	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to Section A, Chapter 5, Section 5-8, first paragraph, paragraphs 5 to 9, third, fifth, sixth and seventh paragraphs, and paragraphs 5 to 13 and proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The first paragraph of Section 5-8 of the Securities Trading Act shall be replaced by the following: The issuer of shares shall immediately publish the change in the rights of the issuer's shares, including changes in related financial instruments issued by the company, and information on the allocation and payment of dividends and on the issue of new shares, including any arrangements for the allocation, subscription, cancellation and conversion.§ 5-9, third paragraph shall be replaced by the following: If a vote authorisation form is not attached to the notice to the general meeting, the notice shall state that such form may be obtained from the issuer of the shares.§ 5-9, fifth and sixth subparagraphs shall be replaced by the following: Share issuers may use electronic communications when notices, alerts, information, documents, communications and similar shall be given to a shareholder, if the shareholder has expressly accepted this. [[1]] [[3]] [[5]] When a share issuer is required to give notices, etc. to the shareholder, he or she may do so by means of electronic communications to that e-mail address or in the manner specified by the shareholder for that purpose. [[6]] The Ministry may lay down detailed rules for informing shareholders.§ 5-13 shall be replaced by the following: Issuers with Norway as their home Member State and having transferable securities admitted to trading only on the Norwegian regulated market shall provide information in Norwegian, Swedish, Danish or English. [[1]] [[2]] The issuer of Norway as its home Member State and which has transferable securities admitted to trading on a regulated market both in Norway and in a host Member State shall provide information in Norwegian, Swedish or Danish, and at the choice of the issuer, either in a language determined by the competent authority of the host Member State, or in English. [[3]] The issuer of Norway as host Member State and which does not have transferable securities admitted to trading on a regulated market in the home Member State shall provide information in Norwegian, Swedish, Danish or English. [[4]] Where transferable securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market without the issuer's consent, the obligations laid down in the first to fourth subparagraphs shall be the responsibility of the person who, without the issuer's consent, has requested such admission. [[5]] Where securities with a denomination of at least EUR 50000 or, in the case of debt securities other than euro with a denomination of at least EUR 50000 on the date of their issue are admitted to trading on a regulated market in Norway, the issuer shall publish the information in either Norwegian, Swedish, Danish or English.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e4909	It is then added to Chapter 19 paragraph A. 7, § 2-1, second to fourth paragraphs. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e4923	So it goes over the rest of A and B.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e4933	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e4943	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e5094	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e5104	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e5112	During the debate, Svein Flätten has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, the Progress Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e5199	There is an alternative proposal from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The insurance law shall be amended as follows: point (f) of the third paragraph of Section 7-2 shall be replaced by the following: the period of notice of undertakings which will withdraw from the contract and the rules on the admission of an undertaking to exclude it from the joint pension fund, and the settlement in accordance with the fourth subparagraph of Section 7-13 when an undertaking leaves the joint pension fund. In any event, the termination shall comply with the provisions of Chapter 11.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e5322	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-05-29-lower.ana.ud2599e5332	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
