ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e24	The President will be allowed to take advantage of the occasion on the first day of this session to wish all representatives and everyone else who has their daily work in Stortinget, a really good new year and express the hope that everyone will have a pleasant, interesting and challenging session in the 2007 local election year. The representatives of Torstein Rudihagen, Laila Davøy, Anna Ljunggren, Marianne Marthinsen, Saera Khan, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Per Sandberg and Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. From the meeting of the alternate of the State of Oppland, Johannes Rindal, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Inger S. Enger, on 10 and 11 January, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The application shall be examined immediately and granted2. Other alternates of the State of Oppland, Svein Erik Hilmen, are invited to meet during the period of leave.3. Svein Erik Hilmen is elected to Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Inger S. Enger.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e74	Svein Erik Hilmen is present and will take the seat. Four permit applications are available: from the representative of Heidi Sørensen on maternity leave from 10 January to 13 April from the representative of Olav Gunnar Bello on maternity leave from 10 to 11 January from the representative of Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum on maternity leave from 10 January to 6 February from the representative of Trond Helleland on maternity leave from 15 January to 16 February On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Busherud County: Beate Heieren Dog HammerFor Finnmark County: Kirsti SaxiFor Hedmark County: Arnfinn NergårdFor Oslo: Akhtar Chaudhry
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e124	Kirsti Saxi, Arnfinn Nergård and Akhtar Chaudhry are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e130	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solvency Horne. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne is considered unanimously elected president of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings. The representative, Mr Borghild Tenden, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e137	On behalf of Odd Einar Dørum, Trond Helleland, Øyvind Halleraker and myself, I want to promote a proposal for a representative to set up a stand-alone roadside supervision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e142	The representative, Olemic Thommess, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e145	On behalf of the representative Trine Skei Grande and myself, I would like to make a proposal for the conversion of the licence payment to the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e151	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e175	On Monday the Stortingen received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following members of the Government would meet for oral Question Time: State Council Anne-Grete Ström-ErichsenState Council Odd Roger EnoksenState Council Erik Solheim The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e194	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy. A broken energy policy over several years has led to higher electricity prices for both households and industry. The Progress Party has annually promoted dozens of proposals for a better energy policy, but has always been downgraded. It seems to me that the bulk of the population has wanted higher electricity prices, and this government has obviously resigned in its efforts at these high electricity prices. At Nature and Youth's Annual Meeting this week, the Minister of Energy was guest. Among other things, he said: that we have to live at high electricity prices in the future, and in the evening post today he is quoted as saying that the energy price today is high, fortunately. It is possible that the Minister of Energy likes to be applauded by Nature and Youth, but for the many households, and not least for industry, who have to pay the bill for this policy, this is a challenge. A policy to ensure that energy prices ‘unfortunately’ are high puts Norwegian industry at risk. In recent years, we have seen many examples of Norwegian industry moving out, despite the government asking it to stay in Norway. It shows that there are, not prayers, but good framework conditions. In the election campaign, the red-green parties promised to clean up. They promised to bring a package that would give the industry power at a competitive price, a so-called industrial power regime. When the Bondevik II government investigated this, there was no way how easy it would be to implement such an industrial power regime if one just got a red-green government. But despite a number of promises during the year that have passed, by November at the latest, that the industrial power regime would come into place before Christmas, we still haven't seen the turn of this. For companies like Hydro Karmøy, which estimates to invest SEK 6 billion in a new aluminium melting plant on Karmøy, it is essential to know if the industrial power regime will come into place. What kind of advice will the Council of State give to companies like Hydro Karmøy? Should they wait for the Government in the hope that a regime will come into place, or should they go into the market and make power agreements there?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e207	The representative of Solvik-Olsen addresses several questions. What the government says in the Soria Moria statement is that we have to have a good balance of power, and that we have to have acceptable energy prices. But it's unmistakably the fact that in a year of normal rainfall we are net importers of energy. That means that if we're going to have a national power recovery, we're going to have to produce more power. And new power will cost more than the paid-down power plants that we already have. If we want to regain power, it can happen in two ways. This can be achieved through the support provided by the Government for renewable energy, and this can be achieved by increasing energy prices. Unfortunately, it is also that if we are to rely on imports in the future, it will help to drive prices up, because energy prices on the European market are generally higher than in Norway. So, as I've said, there's every reason to believe that energy prices will be higher in the future than what we've been used to. Right now, the situation is that we have some of the lowest energy prices across Europe because the magazine situation looks different than it did in the fall. But there is no desire from the Minister of Energy that we should have the highest possible energy prices. We're going to have acceptable power prices. Then to the industrial power regime. I have not at all hidden the fact that this is and has been a demanding work. A large amount of work has been done in the direction of several departments in the year that has passed. When we, as I also announced before Christmas, decided to spend some more time on this issue, it is not least related to the work going on in the European Union, and which in any case will have consequences for the way in which we can set up a future industrial power regime on the Norwegian side. The work in the EU is expected to be completed in the first six months, and we aim to work in parallel with a national system towards the end of the work of the European Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e216	When the council mentions the power situation, it's a little bit surprising that this government says no to the power project on the Wefsna, which would give 1.5 TWh new power at a price lower than Hydro Karmøy requires to make its investment. We also know that the government's commitment to renewable energy has largely only ended with the cancellation of renewable energy projects. You haven't done anything new. My main question went on the industrial power regime, as the government in the election campaign said was easy to get in place if you just voted on the red-green parties. Many industrial workers did so, precisely because they believed and prided themselves on the promises of the parties. Now we see that despite many promises, even during the year that passed, the government has not delivered the goods. On the contrary. No to the EU Party, the Central Party, now trusts that the EU will be the solution. Hydro Karmøy, which is one of many companies in this situation, expects a solution to exist during March. So now we hear it's going to happen in the first six months. Then I want to know if there will be anything for the Storting so that it will be adopted, or will the Government then investigate it further?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e223	There's been a thorough investigation by the Government. And it's not like we're waiting for the EU to necessarily see what they're doing. However, as the EEA Agreement is crucial for the scope of action we have, it would also make sense to look at possible changes to the EU regime in this area. That's why we're waiting. But that doesn't mean we're sitting quietly waiting for what's going on in the EU. We have a close dialogue with several EU countries and with the Commission on these things – we have had it all the way – and we are also working with a national regime internally. I think that's all reason to stress that I've never said this is going to be easy. There is no doubt that it is a demanding job. But that doesn't mean the government doesn't want to solve the challenges for Norwegian industry. And that's what's really important here. We've spent a lot of time on this question, and we're going to spend a lot of time on it in the future to facilitate that, for example. also Hydro Karmøy shall be able to make investments in a forward-looking industrial plant in Karmøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e230	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e233	It's a little funny now to hear that today's oil and energy minister owes it to the EU. In the election campaign prior to the last major elections, it was categorically stated that the EU was not a problem on this issue. The red-green parties carpet-bombed Norwegian industrial communities with guarantees – let's go, then the industrial power price will automatically fall – about an industrial power package that the previous Stoltenberg government made sure to wind up. What do you actually say to Norwegian industrial communities, which you promised the opposite? You say, hey, the price is going to increase. So you won the election to issue the greatest guarantee of the campaign. Then my question is: does the Minister of Oil and Energy, on behalf of the Government, now take self-criticism that Norwegian industrial workers were going out and promised lower power prices, when developments have shown the exact opposite?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e240	No, we're not doing that at all. We're talking about two different things. The government's efforts to establish an industrial power regime are well under way. We've been working on that for over many months, in fact for one year. The work to establish such a regime is continued. And the way it's done, we're going to get back to it. The prerequisite for this work is that we establish long-term and stable energy prices, so that industry has predictability of investment. There is something quite different than what we see from the market price of electricity development – it was very high in winter, but we now have a electricity price that is among the lowest in Europe. It also shows the vulnerability of a hydropower system. There was definitely no one who said that this was going to be easy. But unlike the previous government, this government has a clear ambition to establish such an industrial power regime. That's also the starting point we're working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e250	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e253	The government parties have promised for a long time a rapid clarification of a new industrial power regime. The Council of State told the representative of Solvik-Olsen that they had been in close dialogue. Before Christmas, the Council of State answered a written question that concrete proposals for arrangements so far have not been discussed with ESA. My impression is that here the government is rather defensive, when you haven't started discussing concrete proposals. It's been a long time since the sausage party in October where you celebrate the 1st anniversary of the government. But my question and my challenge to the Council of State will be: What argument will the Council of State use towards the EU to put in place an industrial power regime, and which alliance partners does he see to get this in place within the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e264	First, we have to differentiate between different things. As I said in my previous reply: on the one hand, we have had a close dialogue with the European Commission and with several EU Member States which have a quite comprehensive industry, to try to influence the direction such a regime takes in the EU, and on the other hand, we have an informal dialogue with ESA. When my answer says that we have not made any concrete proposals for ESA, it is simply justified that at the moment when we do, we are in a formal process where ESA is going to decide on one proposal. We have chosen to have informal discussions where we have discussed different options to see what room we have for action on the most current options available. In the light of these informal discussions, we will go to ESA when we have decided on what concrete proposal we are going to accept for it. That's the process we've set up in relation to ESA. Then to the arguments against the individual Member States of the European Union. The challenge facing the industry is not strange. European industry is struggling to the same extent as Norwegian industry with high electricity prices. So this is also a topical issue in EU countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e271	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e274	There is no doubt that a breach of promises characterises the government's energy policy – it does so in the area that has been addressed today. The government parties promised a quick clarification, it was just a matter of will. There should be stable, long-term and low prices. Now we hear the Council of State talk about long-term and stable prices – and ‘low’ are cut out. Let me take another example of a breach of promises in energy policy – yes, one that is going to go into the textbook on a breach of promises. The Prime Minister said in the Stortingen meeting on 1 March last year: ‘I am pleased to be the Prime Minister of Norway who cuts the cord to the first large Norwegian gas power plant, and I intend to do so around 2007. Not only do we have a gas power plant standing there, but we also have a very large sewage plant next to it that cleans the greenhouse gas CO2.” In the new year this was replaced by a vision to put in place a sewage treatment plant in seven years' time. Does the Council of State understand that there is increasing frustration that the breaches of the promises characterise the Government's energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e293	It's a description that I totally disagree with. The previous government spent four years not doing any of the world's things in relation to industrial power and also announced that there was no such industrial power regime. This government has announced that we have a clear ambition to achieve this. We have spent one year doing a thorough work that has been carried out both across several departments and up against ESA and the European Commission. We have warned that it would make sense to spend half a year more on the work to be done now, and industry has also said that it makes sense to do so. That doesn't mean that we've put it away, and that definitely doesn't mean a breach of promise. A year and a half is considerably shorter than four years spent by the previous government. Then the prime minister never said that the sewage treatment plant would be in place in 2007. The Soria Moria Declaration states that it is a goal of the Government that the Kårstø sewage treatment plant should be completed by 2009. According to the report submitted by the NVE, it appears to be very difficult to obtain. We aim for, among other things: to hold a consultation meeting at the end of January. Then the government will decide on the further management of the situation on Kårstø. But that doesn't mean we've put it away, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e300	Torbjørn Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e303	I will once again show that, on several occasions last year, the Minister of Oil and Energy promised a new industrial power regime before the New Year, but nothing has happened. At the same time, the Prime Minister has stated that the introduction of a new system of industrial power at very favourable prices will be difficult due, inter alia, to: The EEA Agreement. Why has the Council of State been so optimistic — when the Prime Minister has been much more in doubt about setting up a new industrial power regime, at least according to the news agency of the newspapers. Do you look at this differently within the Government? Does the Council agree with the Prime Minister’s assessment that there is a general lack of force that may be the main problem in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e310	What I've been saying all along is that I took note of the fact that before Christmas I was going to have a sketch for a new regime. Having also had a close dialogue with the industry about this, I have come to the conclusion that I want to spend a little more time looking at the work that is now taking place in the EU. Industry has also agreed that this will make sense. There are several people who have to do a job here, not only the European Commission, but also several EU Member States. I have never hidden the fact that this is a demanding work, because the EEA Agreement provides a framework for what can be done within a national space of action. In any case, we have to deal with the EEA Agreement, because it provides a framework for the policy we can pursue in this area. But that doesn't mean the same thing as there's no room for action, and that space of action we intend to take full advantage of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e319	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e322	Let me begin by reprimanding the New Year's requests from the President, as it has not been said before by any of the representatives. Just before Christmas we were announced the largest merger and the biggest change in Norwegian oil policy that has occurred in Norway in many decades. In Norway, we have had a tradition of wanting to have more large companies that have been able to compete, run each other and have been able to develop technology. There has been a successful policy that has contributed to our being at the forefront as a country of competence and knowledge in oil extraction in deep sea areas. It shows that we've got a history of a great development of an industry not only related to the oil itself, but also to the supplier industry and the technology associated with it. In retrospect, the main discussion relating to the merger has been about the name of the baby. Thus, when the major change takes place in instruments and affects around the main and largest source of income in this country, the main discussion of the political environment is what a new company might be called and whether it should change its name. I will therefore be allowed to use this spontaneous question hour to challenge the Minister of Oil and Energy to come up with views on what to do now. What changes in Norwegian oil policy are now to be made to ensure that what has been diversity and competing competence does not now become uniform and less competitive, and thus also less development of new technologies and new ways of working, and that the costs of a merger that is important to companies do not result in damage to Norway's extraction and technology development in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e332	I would like to thank the representative for having the opportunity to talk about one of the issues that are essential in connection with this merger – among other things. development on Norwegian pedestal in the future. There is no doubt that the competition between Statoil and Hydro has been among the important driving forces for the development of new technologies on Norwegian base. Now it can be said that in a maturing phase that we are in now, where we harvest more than we are developing, where we have the great needs for the development of new technology that we had back in time, and the competition between those companies, the relationship between Norwegian pedestal and Norwegian pedestal is slightly different. There are many new companies that have come in – in fact more than 40 companies that are qualified to participate on Norwegian pedestal. It's a historically high number. The interest to participate on Norwegian pedestal is great, greater than it has ever been. This means that competitive conditions are somewhat different. Nevertheless, this new actor is clearly becoming dominant on the Norwegian pedestal. This is why this is one of the issues that the Ministry now spends a lot of time going into in connection with, among other things. the matter to be referred to the Storting concerning the importance of this for the State's management of resources on a Norwegian base, the relationship of the Directorate of Oil with Gassco and Petoro companies, and not least the situation of the Ministry. We'll get back to that. It's too early to give a concrete answer to that, but it's absolutely among the things that occupy us and that are very important in relation to this merger.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e339	In fact, it is possible to have the opposite assessment, that precisely in a maturation phase on Norwegian soil – otherwise, the Barents Sea and some other areas are still not ripe for new work – this is extremely important with technological developments, because it is a question of how much we get out of each field. And that's exactly what's been the strategy in the last few years, to provide new technology for it. So I want to warn you against thinking that a maturation phase does not make actual demands for just technology development, competence and opportunities. My question to the Council of State is: Do you now want to consider setting up a strategy where, for example: more foreign companies are invited into an operator's company when you also think of Statoil as being able to change exchange conditions, just for having more with the heavy, great competence into Norwegian base to have more dynamic environments? One problem is that we will even have one big business of competence that will also be a major supplier of premises for the ministry and the views we are going to have on what can be done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e346	Both Petoro and the Oil Directorate have considerable competence and will be very important precursors for the department’s assessments, and will become even more important precursors in the future. Yes, the international companies are more than welcome on a Norwegian base, and I use every opportunity to say that. To a very large extent, they are also active and participate on Norwegian pedestals, and not least the development of some other central oil provinces is crucial to ensure that the interest in Norwegian pedestal is as high as it is. We have stable framework conditions. We have a predictable policy in this area that makes these companies view Norwegian pedestal as a good place to be. Despite the fact that we are in a situation where oil production is decreasing, there are still considerable resources and opportunities on Norwegian soil, and it is to be exploited in cooperation between Norwegian companies and international companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e353	The President will accept four follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e356	The Progress Party is mainly positive in this merger process that is now taking place between Statoil and Hydro. However, one of the main challenges in this respect is to ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian capital. It is important to ensure the best possible value creation on the base, but more players in real competition are also important to ensure that the supplier industry has good conditions and that there is a good technology development so that we do not have one big company that can dictate all processes that are taking place. Open and healthy competition is also important for Norwegian companies’ ability to operate abroad. If we shut down foreign operations in Norway, the same is likely to happen to Norwegian companies abroad, and then it would be interesting to hear what positions the Council of State has in relation to getting more foreign operators on a Norwegian base.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e361	The answer to that is pretty short. The companies that qualify to participate on a Norwegian base and meet the requirements we impose to participate on a Norwegian base are welcome to participate on a Norwegian base. It has been Norwegian official oil policy from the very beginning. It has also been reinforced by the expansion that has taken place in recent years in the number of new smaller companies. This has also been done in an attempt to improve the diversity of Norwegian soil in a situation where we have tail production and small fields. Yesterday it became e.g. known that one of the fields that was shut down several years ago is now being reopened by one of the smaller oil companies that actually sees opportunities to get even more out of a field that has been shut down. This is also some of the developments on Norwegian soil that the Government wants to welcome, and which we want to stimulate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e366	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e369	The knowledge environments of Statoil and Hydro have assessed different petroleum fields differently. They've applied for concession in different blocks. They have run the project very differently. And they have developed different competences. Now the question is whether these two cultures will do each other better – whether the new company is able to become the sum of the two companies' strengths, or whether the opposite will happen. A current change in this way is ‘tail production’, which is to get the last remainder out of the field where most of it is already housed. This is an interesting and important function. Traditionally, this has been particularly interesting for smaller companies. My question to the Minister of Oil and Energy is therefore: How will the merger affect the development of Norwegian top competence in such tail production?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e376	I have probably partly answered that question already. Just as the development we see in smaller companies, which are primarily interested in mature areas and for precisely tail production and small satellite fields, shows that we have gained a greater diversity on the pedestal. Competence in this type of production is built up in smaller companies. This, of course, does not mean that a new large Norwegian oil company should have less attention to the need to get the most out of the fields already in production. This applies primarily to the large fields. The Oil Directorate and the Government's ambition are that we will be able to grow new 5 billion barrels of oil equivalents in the period up to 2015. It is a rather ambitious goal, which it will require considerable efforts to achieve. The extraction rate in each field must be increased. Here, the new company will have to take responsibility – just as Hydro and Statoil have done so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e385	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e388	State Council of Enoxen and I sat in a different government less than 10 years ago when the third Norwegian oil company was taken over by Statoil and Hydro. I remember when we asked a lot of important questions about the spread of power, the concentration of environments of competence, etc. Now we are facing a situation where the same questions can be asked – with ten lines below. These issues are very fundamental, because what is industrially correct can prove to be political and democratic challenging – whether we can say so. Not least the question of combining a large state ownership with the exercise of State powers. My first question concerns what it is close to looking at, how ownership tasks should be distributed differently between departments. It is close to seeing that the State Council's own department will now have so important authority tasks that it will be right to add ownership to the new company in another department. The second question is: how will the Storting get involved in the political and democratic challenges of this new company?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e400	It's true that we asked a lot of key questions about Hydros and Statoil's acquisition of Saga. History has shown, after the years that have passed since then, that both Statoil and Hydro, as well as Norwegian pedestal, have had a very positive development in retrospect. The knowledge and competence that Saga had and that was brought into the other two companies have undoubtedly been positive for – and have contributed to – the development we have had. So Sponheim asks entirely relevant questions about the ministry's position on this type of question and the significance of the merger for Norwegian oil policy. As I said, these are among the questions that we are now investigating, and that we will present to the Storting in a proposition that is likely to be presented in March. It must in any case be dealt with by the Storting before the general meeting of these two companies, so that the Government is given the power to vote in line with the decision of the Storting. In this context, it will be possible to discuss all these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e407	Børge Brende – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e410	First two words about the industrial power regime. Last year, the Minister of Oil and Energy said to Elkem, when they wanted to move Bjälvfossen to Iceland: couldn't they wait six months since the industrial power regime would be in place before Christmas? They're probably thinking in Elkem today, when this is pushed further out in time. What worries me a little bit when the Minister of Oil and Energy now talks about the diversity of the Norwegian base, is that only the small companies are referred to. The reason for this merger between Hydro and Statoil is that they want to establish themselves internationally. However, on a Norwegian base, all the small companies will be able to replace the competition between Hydro and Statoil. Why does the Council of State have to be constantly pressured to address this issue? When will he go out in an offensive way and say: How will we ensure that the Norwegian supplier industry will continue to experience competition between different oil companies in the future? How will the Council of State offensively come to Stortinget with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e417	First, with regard to Bjälvfossen and Elkem's situation, it was in months from Elkem that Elkem raised this question and until Elkem's board made a decision to make good contact between Elkem and my department. Enough about that. I think I've already answered several times in what way I want to present this to the Stortinget. It will be presented in March in the form of a proposition, where these conditions are reviewed. And it is definitely not that there are only small companies on a Norwegian base – in addition to the new merged company. There are large international companies that are represented on Norwegian pedestal, which will be represented on Norwegian pedestal in the future and show great interest in participating on Norwegian pedestal. It is a necessary mix of large and small companies. There is no doubt that the new situation will require more by the country as resource manager. It will require more of the Oil Directorate, by Petoro, by the Ministry of Oil and Energy – that is, by the authorities. And that question will be presented to the Stortinget in March.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e428	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e431	The oil and energy minister can stand still, because that's the guy I want to ask a question. The merger of the oil and gas activities of Statoil and the oil and gas activities of Hydro has been a central theme of this questionnaire, and for all reason: it is a very important question for Norway as a nation, for Norwegian democracy, for Norwegian communities and, of course, for Norwegian oil and gas policy in the future. Hopefully, this grip will give us an even stronger oil and gas environment in Norway – world-class. We have, on the part of the Christian People's Party, given our support for the positive accession of the Government to the merger plans, but we also have clear counter-conceptions. So far, you've focused on the conditions on the base. But throughout the Norwegian oil history, there has been a red thread that the Stortinget has been committed to ensuring the spread of power, democracy and decentralisation in relation to oil policy. It has been reflected in the allocation policy and the location of key functions. This master line is challenged by this aggregation. We may be at risk of an economic concentration of power of uncertain dimensions — an increase in dominance on the pedestal that may weaken the competitive conditions of the supplier industry, which has been mentioned. It creates new challenges in relation to real independence and equivalence between governmental bodies and one dominant actor, and last but not least, we can have a geographical power centre that can bring about the gradual centralisation of real governance functions. The question is whether the State Council can promise the Storting a full review of these conditions when he presents the proposition, focusing on how to counteract a geographical concentration of power and centralisation in this industry, and whether the Storting is presented to the dominant owner’s strategy for the new merged company.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e444	I ask for understanding that it is difficult to give a concrete and accurate answer to what is going to be the content of the proposition to be presented to the Storting. It has been a very short time since the merger plans became known, and in the meantime we have had a Christmas holiday. We are now reviewing the questions that we believe are relevant to present to the Storting in the proposition presented in March, as I have already said. Just the issues raised by the representative, the dissemination of power, decentralisation, the relationship between the supply industry, the relationship between authorities and the company, and not least the work of the authorities on resource management, will be central in this respect. We will also go thoroughly through the merger plans and the plans presented in the future, in order to also assess these in-house in the Government and as the largest owner of the new company. The circumstances in which the representative has been involved are relevant in many ways in relation to the consequences of this merger. It is now being worked on by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e453	I am pleased that the Government, unlike representatives of the merging parties, has made it clear that it is relevant for political authorities to review all aspects of these plans. That the Government will do it itself, and that one will present this review to the Storting, I think is satisfactory and positive. It is necessary in the light of the size of this case for Norway. At the same time, the Government has signalled that the State should be a dominant owner of the new company – yes, the Government will even be a more dominant owner than it becomes as a direct result of the merger. In view of that, it would be interesting for the Storting to get an answer to the question I also asked, namely whether the Government in this proposition will present its strategies for this dominant ownership for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e460	As I said, to give a concrete answer to the exact extent of the proposition, with the short time we have at our disposal until March, I ask you to understand that is a little bit difficult. But it is clear that the strategy and background for such a large ownership of this company are among the things that will be discussed. Otherwise, the ownership that the Government intends to establish in the new company is in line with what was underlying, among other things. in connection with the partial privatisation of Statoil. It was then said from Stortinget that they wanted the state to own at least two thirds of Statoil. It is also in line with what the Government has stated in the Soria Moria statement, namely that we want to have a significant ownership of this type of company in the future as well. That's why what the government is doing is also at the root of what it's doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e467	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e470	It is important to develop the clusters of competences existing in Norway. One of the best and most important clusters of expertise we have is petroleum activity. Norway is an oil capital in Europe and in the world, and we should still be. Based on a centralisation idea, most of the parties in Stortinget have said that it is important to ensure that the head office of the Norwegian company is located in Norway. The same should apply to national geographical areas: where there is a high level of activity, the activities should also be located. It should not be moved elsewhere for other reasons. Since the Government has announced an active use of its ownership, what is now happening should, of course, be anchored in the Storting so that all parties are given a chance to speak. But I hope it happens in a slightly better way than when you launched the time's commitment to renewable energy, which ended up in a four-page big message. It would be interesting to get a comment from the Council of State on the following: What is the difference between using the word ‘business address’ and the word ‘head office’ to tell us where things should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e482	As far as I have understood, there is no concept in the Share Act other than ‘business address’. That's what you're dealing with. As regards all the matters relating to these questions, the Government has not yet taken a decision on them. We will, and as I said, it will be presented to the Stortinget. My and the government's starting point is that we should have a good geographical spread of activity. We need to maintain strong environments. That's also what the companies have been thinking about. Then we will get back to – because it is too early to conclude – how this should be done, and what should be the influence of the authorities on the final merger process in this area and the position of the owners in this regard. We will have ample opportunity to come back to that. And as I said, the Storting will be presented with all the issues surrounding this and be given ample opportunity to discuss it in the spring party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e489	Børge Brende – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e492	The Council of State is now answering questions about the merger agreement by pointing out that the Government needs time to review the agreement – I hope so. I have a simple question and hope for a clear answer. Is it correct that the Government, before the merger agreement became known on 18 December, was presented to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Oil and Energy several different drafts – or one draft – of a merger agreement, so that it was aware of the questions raised by several representatives here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e499	The answer is that there was sufficient contact between the Government and the companies to decide on the overall framework around this. So, of course, we'll need time to go into more detailed questions in the future. It is also true that there are limits to what the largest owner could be involved in in the phase in which we were in at an early stage, and in relation to knowledge that other owners did not have. It would be impossible for the Government to be involved in absolutely all questions relating to the merger process. We will only be able to do that at the moment when the draft terms of the merger are presented to all shareholders. We will then be able to take a final decision on absolutely all questions, such as: exchange relationships, which are one of the essential issues that each owner has to consider on an equal basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e506	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e509	The previous government moved a large number of directorates from Oslo to various other cities in Norway. The idea was to build environments of competence in different parts of the country. The centre party failed to achieve a similar objective in the Soria Moria declaration. Therefore, it is at least important that one avoids building up environments established in different parts of the country. My question to the Council of State is whether it is the Government's clear objective that the merger we are now discussing should maintain a strengthened environment in different parts of the country, thus contributing to the spread of power and the strengthening of competences in different parts of the country, and that one will therefore be clearly identified in the strategy presented to the Stortinget. Otherwise, the Share Act states ‘business office’ and not ‘business address’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e516	It is a clear ambition of the Government that we should build on strengthening the environments that are established. We have the absolute strongest environment in this sector in Stavanger, we have a good environment in Bergen, and we have a good environment in Oslo. These environments are to be protected, because this is a merger that is growth-driven, it is not a merger where profit is to be taken out in relation to personnel reductions and that kind of thing. There is currently a high demand for skilled labour in this area, and there will be considerable activity in the years to come. That's why it's going to be necessary to take with you all the good people you have in this business. This will mean that it must be built on the environments we have that these environments must be further developed. That's the government's ambition. It's also the ambition of the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e521	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e524	Climate issues have come on the agenda with weight. It's very positive. We know that something has to be done, we know what to do, and we know that the price is affordable. The low-carbon sample, which has worked in Norway, has shown its way and has made it realistically clear how we can reduce greenhouse gas emissions by two thirds in Norway by 2050. The left has brought about a broad agreement on climate policy. We are talking about an area where we need to have a generation perspective, and we are talking about an area where it is important that policy is broadly anchored, among other things. because we, as politicians, have to stand united behind them. The state council of the Enox acknowledged yesterday the idea of a climate settlement in a positive way, and we think that in the Left is good. But this does not have to be a minimum common multiple, it has to be an ambitious and binding scheme that allows us to achieve the objectives we have in climate policy. To do that, we have to start with some numbers. The left wants the measures to be reduced by 30 pst. by 2020 and a two-thirds reduction by 2050, as the Low Emissions Committee indicates. My question to the Council of State is whether he agrees that such targets should be set, that the level of ambition should be at the level of what the Left says, and that, on the basis of these targets, one then creates the policy needed in different areas in order to achieve objectives. I attended the Nairobi climate meeting and experienced that Germany said they would reduce by 40 pst. in 2020, England said they would reduce by 30 pst. in 2020, while Norway was much more vague – in fact, we were about to give up the leadership role we have had in many ways internationally in climate policy. It is important to do something about it, and a good start will be for the Government to come up with clear commitments related to targets in 2020 and 2050.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e535	Let me first say that I think it's a positive initiative Left has taken with regard to encouraging a broadest possible climate settlement. I also agree that it must be based on an ambitious policy, and it may well limit how wide such a settlement will be. But we might get back to that. The question now being asked is the Minister for the Environment who has the constitutional responsibility for it. The government is working on sectoral plans, where there should be binding targets also in different sectors. The Minister for the Environment has the overall responsibility for this plan, where the various departments – including mine – are involved. That's why I don't want to give a concrete answer as to what such a measure should be. But I agree with Mr Kvassheim that one of the most important issues that we are going to address in the future is how we are going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, especially in the light of the perspectives described by the IEA regarding the increase in energy consumption in the world over the next few years, and the consequences it will have in relation to, among other things. expectations for an increase of more than 50 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions. We can't live with that over time. That is why, as a rich country and an oil producing country, we too need to take a significant responsibility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It's the representative of Kvassheim and the signed heart agreement, and then we get back to the concrete things around this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e542	I record that Germany is prepared to have a target for 2020, England is ready to have a target for 2020, the EU Commission is presenting a binding target set for 2020 – while Norway, which, according to the Soria Moria declaration, is to be a leading country in the environmental field, is not prepared to do so. But it just shows that the Soria Moria declaration was not the breakthrough in environmental policy that many thought. We have also been documented earlier today. When it is important to set a target for 2020, it is because the Low Emissions Committee says that it is possible to achieve the targets. There are no major cost-related problems. But that requires one thing: that we get started early. This means that you need to set your goals, and then go ahead with obliging action plans. The problem today is that we have goals, but we have a development that goes in the wrong direction. We need to stop and change that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e550	My answer does not mean that the government intends to set a target. My answer is that this is primarily the constitutional responsibility of the Minister for the Environment. We are involved in a work on this which will be presented. When that happens, I will be careful to respond, as it is the Minister for the Environment who is responsible for this, but it will be in any case in the next few months. As a result, Norway will also have an ambitious policy in this respect. I am very welcome to Kvassheim's invitation to try to reach the widest possible settlement in this area. So it's not an answer that means that we're not going to have an ambitious policy, but that I respect the fact that it's another government council that's responsible for this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e557	The President will accept three follow-up questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e560	In the field of climate policy, the Government has made a concrete proposal – the CO2 cleaning plant at Kårstø. It's pretty much delayed compared to what they promised, but we're used to that from the government. The project is cost-assessed at NOK 5 billion, with operating costs of approximately SEK 350 million. kr per year. That'll give you a cost of 700 kroner per month. tonnes of CO2 purified, minimum. There were no cost analyses prior to the appropriations from Stortinget, and the Council of State has previously, in the Questionnaire of 18 October 2006, said that this technology will not be applicable in many other cases. So either one can't boast that there's going to be any particular technology development. An alternative use of the 5 billion kroner does not seem to have been made, despite the fact that there are a number of good CO2 projects ready. But when we see that those like EnPro have made more attempts to meet the Government to show their solutions, they are not even invited to a meeting. They will be at the Advance Party. Will the Government ensure that cost-benefit analyses are available at the bottom before one continues any more projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e580	At the end of January, the government will invite you to a wide consultation, where we invite environmental organisations, industry, all those who are relevant and who are interested in making recordings in relation to the further management of the plant at Kårstø. In the light of that consultation, we will consider further proceedings, and the Stortinge will also be properly presented at some point, possibly revised, in relation to the appropriations already adopted by the Stortinge. That means we'll go into a discussion based on what's now seen in the NVE report. The aim is to clean Kårstø in the shortest possible and most reasonable and efficient way. We will come back to this in the light of the knowledge we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e587	It is regrettable that the Government is pulling its legs in setting targets for reductions in Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions. I hope that the government will at least come in front of Australia and the United States when it comes to setting that type of measurement. The others come with ambitious targets now, every day. However, to be specific: in 2001, when the Bondevik government took over, Norway released 54.7 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. In 2005, we released 54.2. Thus, greenhouse gas emissions declined slightly over the four years of the Bondevik II government. Now the government of Stoltenberg II says that Norwegian environmental policy should be reintroduced, and that this is necessary after the Bondevik II government. Can the Council of State at any rate confirm that in 2009 greenhouse gas emissions will be lower in Norway than when the Council of State took over?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e599	I think it should be a common ambition for all of us to bring down greenhouse gas emissions and that we should have concrete targets. We have also said that we must meet our Kyoto obligations. We're going to do that in different ways, including by taking a significant part of this nationally, in terms of national reductions. We are in the process of developing sectoral, obligatory plans. Secondly, the Kyoto mechanism should also be available for use. It is the government's clear ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It is also essential in view of the strong increase in greenhouse gas emissions that we can expect in the years to come, if the growth in energy consumption is to be like, among other things. The IEA has provided for this. The representative asks what I can confirm about what will be the case in 2009. What I can confirm is what is the Government's ambition. Something more than that could not be confirmed by former Environment Minister Børge Brande. There are many factors that will be decisive. But we want to facilitate a policy to reduce CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e609	It is good that several parties are now talking about a climate settlement. The Christian People's Party called for this before Christmas. Today we write in 2007, and then I also expect that the debate on whether there are anthropogenic climate challenges we are facing is a debate that we are behind, and that we can now spend time working concretely. In the debate on settlements and on target numbers, the Government has a very important job to do: to anchor this agreement and the target figure at Gerd-Liv Valla. But when we talk about this agreement, the Christian People's Party thinks it's quite natural that it goes in an extension of the settings of the Low Emissions Committee. It was a concrete and thorough work. My question is: what does the Council of State want in its field of responsibility, oil and gas, to contribute to the conciliation debate and in the measurement debate? What's your contribution, Councillor?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e618	I believe the representative agrees that when the Government presents the sectoral action plans in this area, my area will also be included in it. The measures to be taken in relation to the petroleum sector, which is one of the major greenhouse gas emissions, will be identified. I think the petroleum sector accounts for approx. one third of greenhouse gas emissions. The fact that Norwegian socket has good statistics — emissions of greenhouse gases from Norwegian socket are one third of the world average — is no sleeping cushion for the Government. We're going to go on, and we're also going to make sure that the Norwegian base takes its share of the reductions. There is no need to hide that it is going to be challenging, because with the maturation of fields and increasingly older fields, greenhouse gas emissions per year. the unit of production is likely to increase. It's a challenge that can be met in several ways. Among the measures in question is the use of more efficient technologies and the application of different measures such as electrification and clean-up of CO2 from gas power producing the cap. We look at several measures, and we will come back to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e626	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e629	I have to change a question to the Minister of Defence. The government has still pointed out the importance of Norway contributing forces in Sudan, in which the Progress Party disagrees. Up to now, it has not been possible to send forces, as a result of a lack of mandate for operations in the area, and that forces have not actually been or are not wanted. As it has not been relevant to participate in these operations in Sudan, there have been indications from the Government that Norwegian forces can participate in other operations in Africa. Based on information I've received from defense teams, it turns out that it's hard to recruit soldiers and officers for this type of service, especially with regard to Sudan. Can the Council of States confirm or deny that this is the case? If so, what action will the Council of State take, if any?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e636	It has been clear since our government joined, that we wanted to have an increased commitment to UN operations, and that we also saw it as important that we participate in UN operations in Africa. When we have had a special focus on Sudan, it has to do with Norway participating a lot in the peace process in Sudan, and the recognition that Darfur is the area that is currently experiencing the greatest humanitarian disaster we have seen. There has also been a great deal of attention from the UN itself to get to a UN operation in Darfur. The government still sees that as very important. If this is to be done, the Government of Sudan, in Khartoum, must also wish for a United Nations operation. It has not been as far as possible, and until now it has only been possible to get an AU operation. The government, together with Sweden, has planned to participate in a possible UN operation in Darfur, with a contribution of approx. 450 staff. This contribution is under planning. We have recruited a significant share of that contribution already, which is in a four-month readiness to enter. At the same time, as long as the operation is not a real and adopted operation, it may be difficult to get it fully recruited. But the government definitely doesn't think it's a problem that we're going to be able to fill up the U.N. operation in Darfur. That's what we're planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e644	We can agree that there are major challenges in Darfur, although the Progress Party does not want this kind of contribution. We can imagine contributing in other ways. Has the Council considered what challenges our own soldiers will face when they come to Darfur? The Council of State has considered the problem of meeting, for example: Child soldiers — a question that I have asked the Council of State earlier in this Chamber, but to which I have not really received an answer? And how do the Councils of State view the warnings that have come from the sanitary side of the defence regarding this kind of participation in Sudan?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e651	In the case of child soldiers, there is a higher prevalence in parts of Africa than in Darfur. Yet, of course, it cannot be ruled out that even our soldiers can meet child soldiers. In principle, I would say that those who have weapons in their hands are considered soldiers. That you have opportunities to meet child soldiers, we don't see any argument for not going into Darfur. On the contrary, it shows that more teams must be employed, both on a political level and on a support team, in order to achieve a development in which child soldiers do not exist. With regard to the issue of sanitation, we carry out good examinations in advance, precisely to ensure and prepare our personnel as best they can, so that they can take all reservations and precautions in any operation we participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e658	There will be two follow-up questions – first the representative Jan Petersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e661	I belong to those who want a UN-led world, and it has been a safe Norwegian policy for many years to support under the UN as best we can. I also belong to those who believe that it is right for us to contribute to Darfur in a United Nations context. I agree with the Council of State that the situation is very, very dramatic. Nevertheless, the UN has been on the sideline for a long time now, and that is not the first time. We had the same situation in the Balkans a few years ago. This raises dramatic and fundamental questions: what do we do when the UN gets on the sideline, and what consequences does this have for our vision of a UN-led world?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e666	I'll say I agree with Jan Petersen. It's worrying that you haven't managed to get a U.N. operation in Darfur. We can work on two levels. We can work within the UN – we do it very actively – but we can also exert international pressure on the government in Khartoum to allow a UN operation. I would also like to stress that if Norway is to participate in an operation in Darfur, it must be a UN-led operation. That's why it's so important to us that we succeed in doing just that. In all other conflicts, the critical situation in Darfur must not be forgotten. It is only an international pressure that can help the UN succeed, so that the government will finally say yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e673	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e676	I would like to ask my follow-up question on the same topic to the Minister for Development, as it is quite close to context – if the President allows it. In Darfur, a great humanitarian disaster has developed. There is an extreme need for humanitarian aid. There must be no doubt that the Christian People's Party supports the Government that Norway will participate in a UN force in Sudan as soon as it is possible to enter. There must also be a pressure to do so. But the Christian People's Party is equally concerned with the humanitarian aid that the civilian population now needs. Then is my question to the Minister for Development: is it deliberately working to combine the military preparations with the humanitarian? And: Is there contact with the civil humanitarian apparatus to ensure good cooperation when it becomes possible in the future to get in with military forces?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e685	This is central to the approach to a problem like what we have in Darfur. The Minister of Defence and I have very good cooperation on these issues, because without security in an area like Darfur, the relief work is not possible. On the other hand, without help, it is much less likely that security can be created. The Minister of Defence and I will travel together to Lebanon in ten days' time, just to stress that there is a link between development and the military. During the spring we will travel together to Afghanistan to just underline the same thing there, and also in Sudan and in Darfur these two things have to go together. That is why our ambition is to put in place a UN-led military force in Darfur – preferably together with the African Union – but at the same time we will help to ensure that relief work can be carried out more effectively. The truth is that the aid operation in Darfur is isolated as the most effective and best managed relief operation ever undertaken by the UN. The standard of living for the people of Darfur is one thing, security is another, but the rate of death, for example. for children, is not higher than the rest of Sudan. But it's these two things together that are the challenge in Darfur.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e692	The story goes to the last main question – Finn Martin Vallersnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e695	I have a question for the State Council, Solheim. In these days, one would believe that Venezuela has learned from the SV’s active industrial policy of nationalising private businesses in the petroleum sector. It's not long since the Council of State in this Chamber was excited by the left wind that celebrates over Latin America. In this year's budget, he also increased aid to the continent considerably. Interestingly, he also called for the strengthening of democratic institutions in the region in his budget proposal. It's not hard to imagine which dictatorship this is meant to be. The question then is: does the Council of State Gerd-Liv Valles share the idea, as it appears in a press release on 5 January, that the United States is the root of all evil in Cuba? Or does he think that Fidel Castro's regime itself must bear the primary responsibility for poverty, oppression and suffering in its own country?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e704	Now Finn Martin Vallersnes swung over relatively many different issues in Latin America in one question. I don't share the belief that the United States is the root of all the evil in Cuba. But that the U.S. policy towards Cuba, as this government and also the previous government have opposed, is the root of much evil in Cuba, there can hardly be any doubt, because the kind of isolation policy that the United States has imposed or has at least tried to impose on the rest of the world in Cuba has proved to be in almost every other country in the world to lead to the opposite of what you want, namely a consolidation of those rulers who are isolated, who then often receive support from their own country. You do not get the economic progress that is very often at the heart of democratic development. In Latin America otherwise, we have entered two countries with different variants of helper programs. It's in Bolivia and in Brazil. The broad democratic left wind blowing over Latin America is evident in these two countries. As I have said here in the past, this is something we should be glad about, because the broad flow we saw in the elections in Ecuador is an expression of the fact that for the first time in the history of Latin America, the people of Latin America who have never been close to political power – workers, farmers, women, indigenous people and Indians, as in Bolivia – have come close and become involved in political power. They'll make mistakes, like everyone else, but there's a development we should enjoy. We have enjoyed the same development in Norway. I also believe that the very heart of the Right is enjoying the democratic development that has taken place in Norway, because women, workers and everyone else have taken part in the political power. We should not be negative about the same thing happening in Latin American countries. We should support it through political contact, even with money.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e716	To the end, I can confirm that the Right naturally enjoys the development in Norway, of which the Right itself has been a major part. But back to the case: In the so-called hotel case last week, Gerd-Liv Valla thought that a foreign owned hotel in Norway had to comply with Norwegian laws and regulations. This means that the Government sees that a Norwegian company engaged in a dictatorship, for example: in Latin America, must only follow local laws and regulations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e723	Without going very far into this specific question, which does not come under my political responsibility, I believe that the starting point is that a company should deal with the local laws in any country you are engaged in. This applies to Norwegian companies when they are engaged abroad. They can't break the laws of the country they're in. But they also have to deal with generally accepted international human rights standards, international environmental standards, international standards to deal with trade unions and a number of other international standards. The breaking point between dealing with the laws of a country's legal authorities, and the broad international standards of women's liberation and a number of other things, is not a simple matter. The starting point for Norwegian companies must be to relate to both. Since Norway does not significantly violate any of these international standards, the starting point for a foreign company investing in Norway must be that they relate to Norwegian laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e730	The President will accept two follow-up questions – first from Dagfinn Højbrätten.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e733	When the Council of State has been cleaned up successively [[a glass of water had overturned during the last part of the articles of the Council of State]] I listened attentively to the answer given by the State Council, Solheim, to the representative, Vallersnes, in the case of Cuba. I think there are a lot of people in Norway who react to this hotel case as something unacceptable. When the Council of State was to answer the question of his assessments of the situation in Cuba, and what is problematic, I missed a slight alarm as to the situation of the people of Cuba as regards human rights, freedom of organisation, democracy, freedom of belief, etc. Did I hear wrong, or is it so that this is a relationship that at all does not concern the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e744	More than a little worry, of course, it is a major concern. Cuba is a one-party state with very strong restrictions on this kind of freedom of expression and a number of other freedoms that we regard as central, which is absolutely fundamental in Norwegian foreign policy and in Norwegian development policy. In all our dialogue with Cuban authorities – at some point we had human rights dialogue with them, but it's not that much left of it – this was the very central starting point. Cuba, on the other hand, has made considerable progress in some social areas, in health and education, where they score high in all international standards, such as: with low infant mortality. However, because of their major economic difficulties, they have difficulties in filling these sectors, for example: with the necessary equipment. Nevertheless, it is a paradox that they are doing well in some social areas, while they are standing far behind in terms of the human rights standards that we want to promote, and it is absolutely central in all our dialogue with Cuban authorities. But – and it's not just Cuba, it's a wide range of countries – I have a completely different belief in dialogue than in isolation when it comes to getting a country on a better track.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e755	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e758	It is not so strange that it stimulates a left-leader in the hall here when the Council of State, Solheim, recalls Norwegian political history, when workers and farmers from all over the country met in this hall and took power. It was a left wind. If it's the same thing that goes over Latin America now, I'm not as sure about it, but I hope these countries bring with them the best of the left winds of what's happening. I think it is important that we welcome Cubans and many others to Norway to put on the agenda what must be a good democratic development in Cuba. Now there is much to suggest that, if not for too long — that is, biology — it could be a shift of power in Cuba, and then it is important that Norway has good relations and can influence democratic development. It may be a democratic problem that we can't bring LO's leader Gerd-Liv Valla into this room to answer for the Storting – the power exercised from there at the moment – but we have the Council of State Solheim to do it. Does he agree that we have such a challenge and that we have to deal with it in relation to Cuba?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e767	Yes, it is definitely a democratic challenge in relation to Cuba, and we definitely want to tackle it through dialogue with the Cuban authorities and by establishing an embassy. Now Jan Petersen is no longer present in the Chamber, but when you wanted to create an embassy there in Jan Petersen's time as Minister for Foreign Affairs, it was an expression that we wanted a continuous dialogue with Cuba to push for better human rights in Cuba, which we do in a number of other countries. With regard to the broad left, which started with the Left Party in Norway in 1884, the labour movement continued in Norway and has now spread to Latin America. [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e774	The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e780	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, who has left. Question 9, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has been removed. Question 10, from the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, has been withdrawn. Question 14, from the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e800	Let me first wish the Minister of Finance a really good new year, and accompany it with the wish of a question of tax. ‘A researcher at the SSB has created a tax model with significantly stronger progress in income taxes. The model assumes that labour income and capital income are taxed equally. The model will therefore generate taxes on capital income up to 60 pst. as for employee income. Governments have described the model as interesting in today's Business 2nd January of this year. Does this mean that the Council of State can imagine changes in the tax system involving income taxes and taxes on the return on business at such levels?»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e814	I'd like to repeat the fleet's wish for a good new year! I look forward to a lot of exciting questions in the questionnaire from the representative fleet, but first I would like to answer what I have received today. Of course, we are following with great interest the public tax debate and the results of the research that may be in the field of taxation. However, the situation is that we have recently implemented a comprehensive tax reform aimed at eliminating major adjustments in the old tax system, while preserving the good principles and characteristics on which our tax system is based. It is now important to gain experience with the reform that has been implemented to see whether the objectives of the reform have been met, before any new major changes to the tax system. In designing the rate structure of the tax system, one must, among other things: to balance the consideration of effective capital taxation and the consideration of redistribution of income through the tax system. This is the background to the two-part structure we have had in income taxation since the tax reform in 1992, with a low and flat rate of capital income and a progressive taxation of labour income. However, the problem and weakness of the 1992 tax reform was evident. It turned out very easy to get labour income taxed as capital income at a much lower rate by collecting real labour income as a dividend. These adjustments significantly weakened the distribution effects of the 1992 tax reform and led to a significant lack of legitimacy in relation to the tax system. The tax reform of 2006 included, inter alia: convergence of the marginal tax rates on share income and labour income. In this way, adjustments were greatly reduced, while taking into account distribution and effective taxation. A vital part of this was to reduce the maximum tax rates on labour income. The tax model proposed by Aaberge and Columbino is not based on the two-part Norwegian tax model, but requires a different tax system with a common tax base for all types of income. This travels, for example: questions about how high a tax can be on capital income in an open economy with a mobile tax base. In any case, it is not appropriate to make as dramatic changes to the tax system as this proposal makes, as soon as the tax reform has entered into force. We now need time to see how it actually worked, not least in terms of distribution. But it's like, of course, I'm closely following all the tax input, which can lead to a better distribution effect of the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e829	I thank you for your answer. It is interesting that the Council of State follows the tax debate carefully, and I understand that she does, but in the public debate there are many voices, not least from the representatives of the government parties. Now I hear the Council of State say that we need to be calm about the new reform. I am happy to hear that, but at the same time we still hear, not least we have heard in the last few days, about changes in the housing tax. One hears from the Central Party, and partly from the Socialist Left Party, that the interest deduction is going to go away, and one tries to find new opportunities to take the so-called rich, while the changes that come into the budgets end up landing with ordinary people. Then my question to the Council of State is: do we get some sort of plan from the Council of State about what you intend to do or not to do, to give taxpayers more peace around this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e840	After all, taxpayers are calm about this, because we have presented a government budget for 2007, which clearly states what changes are in the tax system for the current year. All, including the opposition in Stortinget, have to wait until the government budget for 2008 comes, to see what possible tax changes come from then on. I have a certain understanding that the Right has a desire to keep alive in all sorts of conceivable tax debates, but there is therefore no need to discuss any reality before the Government possibly comes to the Storting with proposals for any changes. We work systematically to get a fairer tax system. Now we have a comprehensive tax reform, and we don't see how it has turned out yet, because it takes time before we get the equations and we can review it. But I can confirm that we're going to work systematically this entire grossing-up period to get a fairer tax system. What we've done has been, to a large extent, that we've sealed tax gaps like this. only the most privileged have been able to avail themselves of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e849	I have to repeat my concern that people are concerned about this. You don't plan your private economy for one year at a time. I understand that the Council of State has intended to let the surprises of taking the rich come overnight, but for the regular taxpayer it is important to know that the tax reform and what is in it will stand by power for a longer period of time. With regard to the discussion we have about housing taxes, income taxes, the fact that the interest deduction is going to go away, and that the wealth tax is increasing every year – it is starting to become predictable, there I agree with the Council of State, where one knows what one has to keep to, it will constantly increase – I will repeat my question: Has the Council of State any way intended, if not to put forward a plan, so at least to try to dampen some of the plays that come from more or less disbursement representatives, who intervene in the tax problem of the ordinary citizen?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e856	I will reject the fact that there is unforeseeability for ordinary taxpayers as to the type of tax regime to be dealt with, and I refer to my first answer, where I was very clear that the main features of the tax reform that is now in place are to be continued and that we are to assess it. But of course, we have to work all the way towards a better distribution effect. So I think we have to find out that there are debates in relation to both income tax on the sale of housing and on interest rebates, but I have – as I have said in many public contexts, and I would like to repeat this here from the Spokesman of Storting – no plans to impose a profit tax on the sale of housing. I have a lot of counterconceptions against it. I also have no plans to make any changes to the interest-rate deduction scheme, which also has a significant impact on housing owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e863	Then we go to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e870	I have the following questions for the Minister of Renewal and Administration: ‘Agder police district, APDs, rent for the building of Justice in Kristiansand is set far above market rent. This was proposed by State Building and the POD sanction in 2002, against the will of the APD. It is now paid more per person. m2 in Kristiansand than is done for police construction in Stavanger, where there is a private landlord. Following the introduction of the framework budget in the 2003 police action, this results, inter alia, in: considerably smaller operational budgets and fewer police officers in Agder. Does the Council of State consider the rental situation of the building of Justice to be satisfactory?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e882	Locals of Agder Police District and District District Court of Kristiansand were applied in 2003, following extensive rehabilitation and reconstruction in that year. The building of justice in Kristiansand is a custom-made and modern building, and the location system is very effective, as both the police, the court and the prison have built space in the same way. The building includes operation centres for the entire police district, prison and custody cells, special-ventilated firing range, offices for all tenants, and a private flight to the court. The cost of this modernisation was 205.4 million. kr, and that is the total construction costs on the basis of which the rent is calculated. Statsbygg uses a model with so-called cost-covering rents for its property. This is in accordance with a principle approved by Stortinget when handling St.prp. No 63 for 1990-1991, and again during the treatment of St.prp. No 84 for 1998-1999. The police district was compensated for most of the extra rent in 2003, and this scheme has actually continued. The police district is covered by two thirds of its rent costs, i.e. 75 pst. We're told by the Ministry of Justice, and that means they don't have to cover a larger part of the rental costs today than they had to in 2003. The police and the court agreed that this would be equal to rent per person. square metres, regardless of whether they were newly built or existing building masses. When the clearances around the land distribution were completed, a contract was negotiated with Statsbyggen, the Ministry of Justice and the Police Directorate. The parties agreed in August 2002 that rents should be determined on the basis of the final cost of the conversion. On that basis, the rent is set at NOK 1462 per person. square metres in 2006. Built in Stavanger is of a completely different type than built in Kristansand, and it is absolutely impossible to compare two as different buildings, as Gitmark does here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e893	I am in favour of the principle that a completely new building in Stavanger – a city that initially has higher rental costs – should have a completely different rental from one in a smaller town like Kristiansand, and that it is the Police Directorate who is sanctioning a rental agreement with State Building, and not the department responsible for it. When the police locally in Agder believe that this is a very land-inefficient construction, where there are several problems with space solutions, and they want to get out of the building, but are still stuck in it, it says something about the lack of flexibility that exists in State Building. Will the Council look at the flexibility of state buildings so that other public agencies can exit from leases and find more suitable premises at a much more favourable price?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e900	I remind you of what I said, that comparing a special building as one has in Kristiansand, where one has both police, prison and court gathering in one building – which is very effective for society gathering views and for the three floors gathering views – with a much simpler, clean office building that one has in Stavanger, being like comparing apples and pears. It can't be done. You cannot compare the rentals in the way the representative does. When we talk about principle, I would also like to remind you that the Stortinget has ordered State Building to use the model that is called cost-covering rent for its property. So it's the big thing that at two conditions has agreed and laid down this kind of principle, and that's what State Building is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e907	In the local construction process, what the court specifically wanted to get into the new building was cost-effective. Of course, the police didn't want to be in it. Nevertheless, the mortgage agreement was sanctioned over their heads by the Police Directorate. That's why I think it's quite appropriate to compare both with the construction in Stavanger and perhaps also with the construction in Trondheim, where this is pure, good police construction that is land-efficient, as opposed to the construction in Kristiansand. With regard to the proximity to the court and the proximity to prison, I point out that there are a few custody sites in Kristiansand. Prison can be found first in Skien, or in Rogaland, so there are probably few places in the country that are as far away from prison as in the big city of Kristiansand. So I don't think that's an argument to use in this context. I want the Council of State to take seriously the signals that come from the police and other agencies, that they are asked to get out of long rental contracts with State Building, and that State Building is a square building in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e916	I don't know that Statsbyk is a square ether. I remember what I said in my first answer: When it applies to the renting of the house for the building of Justice in Kristiansand, the police and the court agreed that it would be equal to the rent per person. square metres, regardless of whether it was a newly built or existing building mass. It was then that the clearances in the land distribution among the tenants were completed, that a contract negotiations between State Building, the Ministry of Justice and the Directorate of Police were concluded. I also remind you that the Ministry of Justice has an agreement that says they will cover two thirds of the extra rent. It has been the same since 2003. In addition, this government has significantly increased transfers to the police. So I don't see any reason why state buildings are going to grab hold of something to do with the rent for the building of Justice in Kristiansand.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e923	So we go back to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e930	This question, from the representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e933	‘The Government has issued proposals for new technical regulations to the Planning and Building Act [[TEK]] What will the consequences of the consultation proposal be for Norwegian timber producers, and how will the Council of State balance the concerns of Norwegian suppliers and the desire to reduce energy use in new buildings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e940	Sharpened energy requirements in technical regulations are an important part of the follow-up to the Government’s Soria Moria Declaration. Proposals for new technical regulations were submitted at wide consultation in June 2006 with the consultation deadline in mid-September 2006. The objective was for new requirements to enter into force on 1 January 2007. The consultation provided many useful input from a large number of hearing bodies, both industry actors, organisations and research communities. These recordings have been carefully evaluated and will affect the final design of the new technical regulation. The Minister of Local Affairs has been committed to a broad and inclusive consultation process and has therefore invited two hearings and information meetings, both of which brought together nearly 100 participants. During the consultation period, a number of meetings have also been held between the political leadership of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and representatives of various stakeholder organisations. Following the expiry of the consultation period, the Landsförbund of Norske Trevarefakker, an association of stakeholders for the window producers, addressed the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and asked for a meeting with political leadership. The meeting was held at the beginning of December 2006. At the meeting, information was provided which had to be discussed. The government does not want new rules to have unintended effects. This is the background to the date of entry into force of new technical regulation until 1 February 2007. Finally, the government will stress that the environmental challenges we face make it extra important to implement good energy measures in the housing and construction sector. Construction has a long life span, and the effect of investing in solutions that provide lower energy needs, among other things. good windows are therefore significant. Both builders and construction industries face challenges that require them to extend slightly. The construction industry will be increasingly interested in consumers and builders wishing to build low energy, both for environmental reasons and in view of favourable operating costs over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e951	I thank you for your answer. We have a lot of good window manufacturers around the country. There is a lot of good business in our communities. But does the Council of State agree that the requirements that were sent out to the hearing are only one window manufacturer that will be able to satisfy? And what does it do with such a big industry as the window producers are? The Christian People's Party agrees that demands should be made, and I also feel that the industry is in favour of setting energy requirements. At the same time, I feel that the Council of State and the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs are state councils who want to find solutions that work, work for the construction industry, work for the environment and also for the window producers. It is nice to say that these new regulations should not have unintended effects. But the question for the industry and also for us is: What will the government land on in a few weeks?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e960	It is probably difficult for me to agree that there is only one manufacturer who has the opportunity to comply with the new regulations. Firstly, they are not implemented until 1 February, and secondly, it is unknown to me – and I would also believe to the representative – what opportunities the other manufacturers have to adapt to the design of the new regulations. Therefore, I do not want to go in and answer this question in concrete terms, but just repeat that the deadline is postponed because we do not want the regulations to have unintended effects, and that the municipal minister has met the window producer organisation and has postponed the deadline to look at the objections raised by them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e965	I thank you again for the answer. It is now that there are these recordings that have made the government need longer time, as the demands that were made would almost have been impossible to meet, especially for the window makers. I think it's important for the government to keep alive in a nutrition as good as our windowmakers are. But to get another angle on this question: Existing houses also need changing windows. Here the Government says nothing in relation to this by making stricter demands on energy use. When we switch the windows in our houses, we have to go to the same level. Why does the Government not take this in when this technical regulation is so important in the follow-up to the Soria Moria Declaration, with which the Council of State began its response?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e974	Firstly, I would like to stress that it is not only important for the Government to ‘keep alive’ the window manufacturers, as the representative puts it – it is clear that it is important that we should have good window manufacturers in the future – but it is also important, as I said in my first response, that the window manufacturers extend to be able to meet the new requirements, and not least in order to deliver as good windows as possible, so that we can bring down the energy consumption in the house. I also believe that consumers will be demanding this in the future. When we make strict demands on the windows to which manufacturers must extend, it will be precisely the type of windows that will also be available for us to change windows in existing houses. So over time it will go in the right direction, in the direction of homes that will consume less energy. We're all supposed to be happy about that. So the municipal minister is now in a process where she looks at the input that came from the industry and has therefore postponed the deadline by one month.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e987	I wish my Council of State, the Minister of Defence, a Happy New Year with the following questions: ‘Our approx. 30-year-old transport aircraft, Hercules, are in an increasingly poor constitution and thus expensive to operate. Per. the current date is probably only one in operation. On the other hand, a cooperation agreement has been concluded to lease Antonov strategic transport aircraft, but how does the Council of State see the further development of its own Norwegian transport aircraft in the event of an accident? Purchases, further rentals, etc.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e996	Let me first return the good New Year's greeting. As mentioned in the 2007 state budget, a contract has been concluded for the replacement of outer wings on our C-130 transport aircraft. The aim is to remove the restrictions imposed on the aircraft manufacturer’s recommendation in April 2005. This, together with a minor upgrade of some of the aeroplane components, allows aeroplanes to perform all types of known missions again until the period 2012-2015. The Ministry of Defence has already undertaken work to determine how the total transport aircraft need will be met after the period 2012-2015. Following the presentation of the 2007 budget and the start of the change of wings on the first aircraft, some parts of the wings that were not foreseen during the change were exposed to a rust attack. The consequences of this rust attack have also not been finally clarified. If it turns out that because of the state of our C-130 Hercules, we are actually without transport aircraft capacity, we have to assess whether it is possible to carry out the replacement of the transport aircraft. It is not safe for us to wait until the period 2012-2015. The Government has therefore decided to explore the possibility of making a so-called fast acquisition of up to four C-130J Hercules transport aeroplanes, already on the market today. This will be done to assess whether it is possible to have a transport flight capacity in place faster than the start-up process provides. Here, both the purchase and any rental will be assessed. The cooperation agreement for the lease of Antonov strategic transport aircraft, to which the representative Bredvold refers, is a NATO/EU initiative. The agreement aims to remedy the deficit on strategic air transport capacity with a leasing agreement with a Ukrainian company. The agreement provides participants with secure access to strategic air transport by 2008 and may be renegotiated until 2012. However, access to these aeroplanes will not meet our national needs for transport aircraft capacity, which is primarily needed for tactical flight capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1013	I thank the Council of State for the answer and for the greeting. It was positive what the state council presented here, I think, if it is not possible to repair the planes we have. There are six pieces, and we're going to change wings on two, as the council says, but during that job, there's rust. Rust can be scary, and rust can be so scary that you can't repair it, you can't find it safe. These are aircraft that are old, approx. 30 years. They have flown a lot and have done a good service in the cause of peace. They are worn out, and it is clear that something has to be done about this. That's why I'm glad the Council of State talked about a quick acquisition of – as I understood it – four planes. My question is: is this four new planes, or are there four neatly used aircraft, to use that name?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1022	Basically, we're looking for new planes. There may be other countries that have ordered planes that they may not need as quickly. We're investigating and investigating all the alternatives just so that we don't have to stand without such a kind of capacity, which we consider to be very important, and so that we don't experience a very large reduction in our transport aircraft capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1027	I thank the Council once again for the answer. With our commitment out in the world, and there's probably more and more of it, we need transport possibilities. We need safe flights, we need good flights, and we need planes that can transport the large amount of both personnel and material we need. Then the Hercules is probably a good alternative to this. Today we have six. It's maybe just one or two that works, if it works at all. We're renting in. Can the Council of State answer whether this costs a lot of money?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1036	I can't say here and now what it might cost to rent new Hercules transport aircraft. What matters to the Government is that we should secure this capacity, both the tactical and the strategic flight capacity, so that we do not stand without such a necessary capacity. In the case of the Hercules planes, it's like we were going to upgrade them to be able to extend their use at least towards 2012, when we had plans to get new Hercules planes or a new type of equivalent aircraft. It's been shown to be uncertain. That is why we have started this rapid acquisition, but it is a work that needs to be done against many environments, to see if there are any aircraft available on the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1047	I also want to start by wishing the Council a good new year. The question is as follows: ‘NVE estimates the construction cost of CO2 cleaning plants on Kårstø to over 5 billion. kr. The cost per person tonnes of CO2 will be at least NOK 700. This is clouded by similar allowances or climate investments in other countries. From 1990, the Norwegian industry has already carried out emission reductions equivalent to approximately 20%. 50 pst. the need to meet Norwegian Kyoto obligations. What prevents Norway from meeting the rest of the Kyoto commitments through allowances trading and foreign investment, if this results in better cost/benefit than national measures?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1064	The government’s policy is that the emissions obligation under the Kyoto Protocol for the period 2008 to 2012 should be met through a combination of national measures and the use of the Kyoto mechanisms, as set out in the Protocol. Therefore, a significant part of the emission reductions shall be achieved through national measures. The government proposes a broad approach to reducing national greenhouse gas emissions, and will include, inter alia: return to Stortinget with a Communication on sectoral climate action plans in spring 2007. Emission reductions nationally will contribute to Norwegian compliance with the Kyoto Protocol. This is also central to the Government’s long-term objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. Furthermore, the fact that we are showing the road in terms of reducing national greenhouse gas emissions is important for Norway to continue to be a driver internationally in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1071	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I interpret what the Council of State says, so that there is nothing more formal in the Kyoto agreement that prevents us from possibly following up the rest of our commitments through foreign action, whether it is quota purchases or direct investments, but that it is the Government's desire to appear as a driver, which makes you want to do more in Norway than you would otherwise have had to do. When you look at the policy that the Government has put into practice, you have to clean Kårstø at a price of DKK 5 billion, with operating costs of SEK 350 million. kr per year, which becomes a minimum CO2 measure of SEK 700 per year. Ton, you have to ask questions about whether there are not many other and much better ways to meet the Kyoto commitments than to do so on Kårstø. What kind of diet/benefit assessments was it made by the Government before it was decided that Kårstø should be the investment project on which to spend the most money?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1081	I want to establish two things. One is that the global climate challenges are so great that all countries must contribute, and therefore each country must both reduce emissions nationally and contribute globally. In Norway, we have taken decisions relating to the Mongstad bet project, which will also have a major impact on Norway’s contribution to the development of a technology that contributes to global reductions. With regard to Kårstø, the representative Solvik-Olsen is certainly aware that there is a report from the NVE that refers to these figures as mentioned by the representative. We're going to have a big meeting now on 26 January, where we're just inviting all the different actors to come up with opinions and input to make sure that we get even more involved in improving our work with Kårstø. We wanted to start in 2009. The NVE report says it's not realistic. Then we have to work on it before we conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1088	Thanks for the answer. It's a little strange to see that the government first decides that Kårstø should be the big cleaning project you start to grant money to, and then takes the round and invites you to dialogue and try to figure out how to do this, and how to bring down the costs. In terms of alternative use of money – that is, if you first decide to spend $5 billion, as the government has obviously done – there are probably a number of other areas where you would get much better environmental and climate action for that cost than on Kårstø. It's enough to look at investment opportunities abroad or to spend money accelerating Mongstad and the Tent Credits. The council never mentions the "Tjeldbergodden" as a good climate action, but there are more ambitions than the government has for Mongstad, and no one disagrees with what is happening in Mongstad. When one sees that the company Entro, which also has CO2 solutions in an alternative way in other areas, does not even receive answers to its enquiries, either to the Minister for the Environment or to the Red-Green parties, one almost has to ask: Will the government at least try to get a meeting with Entro to hear what solutions they have in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1105	Of course, the Government is committed to getting as much oil emission reductions as possible back for the investments made. At the same time, we must not be locked in the view that emission reductions should be taken in all other countries, anywhere else. We have an obligation to ensure emission reductions in Norway. Norway has a special responsibility – because we are one of the richest countries in the world, and because we are ahead of new technology developments – to ensure that technologies that can benefit other countries as well. It is precisely the combination of the Government’s efforts to ensure that Norway now has a policy that both generates emission reductions at home and develops a technology that can be applied both at home and in an international context. It is no surprise that the Progress Party does not support the forward-looking environmental policy measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1116	With the President's permission, I'd like to wish the Council a good new year. So to the question: «A recent review of various measures to improve the safety of road users on Norwegian roads should take place in the Hanekleiv tunnel on the E18 at Sande in Westfold. As important as the periodic approval of vehicles, it should be that the road network is subject to checks to provide road users on Norwegian roads with the best possible safety conditions. In this context, a system of classification and periodic approval of the road network in Norway should be considered. Will the Council of State take the initiative to evaluate such a scheme?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1125	Thank you for the New Year's greeting, which I am more than happy to return: Happy New Year! Fortunately, no road user was injured by the race in Westfold. I have now started an investigation to clarify possible reasons and to get suggestions for any improvement measures. Various checks on the road network are being carried out today. The State Road Service carried out inspections of road safety, known as TS inspections, both for tunnels, bridges and roads. This means going through the road network to look at possible conditions that could be dangerous for road users. There are also agreements with contractors on different inspection procedures for different road elements. In addition, special requirements have been set for bridges and tunnels, which are provided by the various manuals of the State Road Service on the inspection and testing of equipment. Otherwise, there are procedures for alerting you if conditions are discovered that indicate that there is a danger of a step-by-step or a race. If the danger is great, the road should be closed immediately and experts called. In the event of fatal accidents, the State Road Service is taking action to identify the cause of its accident analysis groups — UA groups. They look at the vehicle’s condition and at conditions on the road that may have had a significant impact on the accident. If accidents involve dangerous goods or if serious accidents occur in a tunnel, the State's accident commission on own initiative will also carry out an independent investigation. In addition, the fire command forces supervise the fire safety of the tunnels. This applies to equipment maintenance tests, exercises and procedures. Following the requirements for operation and maintenance of tunnels, a conducted inspection of the mountain and of the securing equipment shall be carried out. This shall be done at intervals, depending on how good or bad the mountain is in the city. There is an approval system in place for tunnels in line with the Tunnel Safety Directive. It has been suggested that the requirements should apply not only to the so-called TERN road network but to the entire national road network. After this system, the plans for new tunnels need to be approved before you are allowed to start construction. Then a new safety clearance shall be required before the tunnel can be opened for traffic. For tunnels open to traffic, the requirement is that they be approved for safety at least every six years. The safety approval shall be a quality check that the necessary procedures have been followed and that what has been done and who has done so has been documented. I would like to wait for the result of the examination of the turret in the Hanekeliv tunnel before assessing whether there is a need for additional requirements for the control of the road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1148	I thank you for your answer. The issue raised in the question concerns the whole road sector, not just tunnels — roads, tunnels and bridges. Then it is with today's system that the State Road Service is largely responsible for control and approval. Classification and periodic review is a system known from other sectors, both from aviation and shipping — a system that has consequences when faults and deficiencies are discovered. Is there any reason not to use such road traffic systems to improve safety on Norwegian roads?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1157	I have previously said – and repeat it in this room – that I do not take a position on any changes in the road construction, control and supervision framework that may be necessary after the fall in the operating tunnel. The review selection, which I have seen down, will deliver its report in mid-February. I'd like to see that case taken separately. That report will also serve as a basis for my follow-up and a discussion of what to do about it. The size should of course be given full information and be able to discuss all aspects of the matter. The most important thing for me is that we get even more security. If the answer is a supervisory body, I don't want to make a decision right now. I am surprised that the Progress Party has already reached its conclusion. It may be useful to know how big a bureaucracy is going to build up to oversee a whole of 90,000 km of roads and more than 1,000 tunnels. It'll be a pretty big bureaucracy we'll have to build up. We actually need time to evaluate whether that's the right way to spend the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1166	I might be able to remove a little bit of the wonder. I will pay tribute to the rapid response after the accident, but it can not be surprising to this Council that the Progress Party, in the context of the National Transport Plan in 2004, and at the latest in the financial position in the autumn of 2006, proposed to establish a traffic control for all sectors. Of course, we see that in the context of the supervision already in existence. But we want the road sector specifically to have its own independent and independent supervision. I'm recording that all parties have gone against it in the past. Strangely enough, representatives from the Left and Right parties have joined forces to promote the proposals of the Progress Party, which they rejected last October. But we are happy to get in touch, and we hope it goes faster than having to wait for two or three years to get it in place. That is why we also hope that the government parties will be more open to the old proposal of the Progress Party to establish independent supervision that also covers the road sector in Norway, in order to increase road safety. I hope the Council of State will be open to consider such a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1173	As I interpret the question of Vardevik, this is a matter of supervision that should actually exercise physical supervision on the roads. It will then be interesting to know whether the Progress Party might intend to build up other corresponding supervision – from system control, which we have today, to physical control. Should the Railway Inspectorate also enter to physically check all tunnels? Today, the Railway Agency is doing it – and, as I said, how much will it bring with it new bureaucracy? I do not know that any other country has set up a roadside monitoring body, but they carry out strong supervision through their roadworks. That's what they do in Sweden, and that's what they do in Denmark, which is our closest neighboring country. In 2002–03, a comprehensive report on State supervision was presented. At that time, the Left and Right were in government. I didn't register any corresponding requests from those parties at the time. The consequences of the race in the Oslo Tunnel in 2003 and 2004 were also not followed up by such a debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1184	Happy New Year! I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The figures from the Statistical Centre from 2000 until now show a relatively steady downward curve in the number of road fatalities. Although the number of cars on Norwegian roads has risen sharply in recent years, the number of deaths in road traffic has decreased. According to Trygg Trafik, this figure is increasing in 2006. Do the Councils consider this to be an outburst of chance, or should immediate action be taken?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1193	Traffic security is one of the main priorities of the Government's transport policy. It is true, as the representative Tenden informs us, that unfortunately we have had an increase in the number of deaths on the Norwegian road in 2006 compared with 2005. The pre-occurrence figures for last year show an increase of 18 killed people, from 224 in 2005 to 242 in 2006, but as the last five years have progressed, we are still on the road to fewer deaths in road traffic. The average in the last five years is 269 people killed, 27 more than in 2006. The highest number of road deaths ever in Norway was in 1970. Then 560 people were killed. Since then, there has been more than a halve in the number of road fatalities, at the same time as traffic has been three times larger. The risk of road traffic in Norway is now among the lowest in the world. As late as 2002, there were 310 killers. From the statistics from 1970 to 2006, we see that the number of deaths has gone up and down somewhat from year to year with statistical variation, but the long-term trend is clearly falling. It is thus far too early to say anything if the trend is turning around. However, the number is still too high and improvements in road safety are still needed. Road governance continues to work and targets to make it safer and safer for people to travel on the roads. The zero vision has since been confirmed by Minister of Transport Moe Gustavsen in 2000 as being superior to the road safety work. The main features of road safety work are far-reaching and are set out in the National Road Safety Action Plan, which is designed in cooperation with the State Road Administration, the Police, the Social and Health Directorate and the Safety Traffic. In this comprehensive work, immediate, short-term and long-term measures were taken. Since 2005, every traffic accident with fatal outcome has been examined by the accident analysis groups of the State Road Administration and, in some cases, by the State Water Commission for Transport. This includes, among other things: result in a series of immediate actions to improve the postponement of the escape point, e.g. in the case of corrections of rails, road markings, lateral or speed limits. The road safety services also carry out systematic road safety inspections to detect and remedy the incident. The statistics show that there are special meeting times that take many lives in traffic. Many of the hatches can be avoided if the running conditions are better separated. Following the action plan, it is planned to build 50 km of midway works on the existing road network during this four-year period. The construction of a mid pulley is expensive, and in the future the road steering forces will also be able to bet heavily on a wide middle field: a 1 meter wide space space separating the running forces. Studies show that the center field has a large positive effect on the position in the panel and gives a greater distance between the running noise in opposite running conditions. In addition, the middle field is a more cost-effective solution: for 100 metres with a mid pulley, a 1 mile with a mid pulley can be made. I want to underline that this is not an either-or-question. The road system will continue to use both traditional middle parts and middle fields, but it is now possible to increase the distance. Of course, the work of building two-field roads with a central strip on the entire main road network and expanding the most trafficked tribal roads to multi-field roads is also continuing. The historical commitment of the Government to operational, maintenance and racial security in the 2007 budget also strengthens road safety. I have just mentioned a few elements that are important in the national road safety policy. It's important to focus on the emergency room, but we have to be told here that there can be yearly variations. Even if it becomes more difficult to get the emergency room downwards, I am sure that by continuing the continuous and targeted investment we will see that we will also take new steps forward in the direction of the zero vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1210	I thank the Council of State for a thorough answer. I am particularly pleased with the midfield and midfield bets, which she specified. That was also left very busy in its alternative budget. So to the question. We have, as we know, recently had some races and accidents on the way and in tunnels, but fortunately, human life has not gone on, as the Council of State said instead. My question is: will the Council of State, in the light of those accidents, in the future focus more on existing road networks than on new development projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1217	This has been presented to the Stortinge before, and the 2007 budget, as agreed by the Stortinge, shows that the Government just wants to put more effort into remedying the existing budget. We have increased the bet on maintaining the road network by half a billion kroner. It was and is a difficult priority, because there is also a need for a new path. However, given that we can ensure roads, curves and intersections in a good way and get more for the money, the government has chosen to do so. I'm glad that the trend is moving forward, because I see it as a support for that policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1222	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. So to my last follow-up question. There are many schoolchildren who experience an unsafe school path. Safe Traffic believes that the obligation to go to school must be accompanied by the right to get to and from school safely. Safe Traffic wants to legitimize the right to safe school roads. What does the Minister of Transport think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1229	The zero vision and the work on road safety are at the top of the Government in the case of transport. Of course, there's a big place for our schoolchildren and our kids. We will teach them to travel in traffic in a good way, but we will also ensure their access to either kindergarten, school or leisure activities. I believe, without going into this issue more thoroughly than what I've got right over the floor, that it's important to have a good plan and good implementation when it comes to related security measures where kids travel. The route is important, but young people also travel a lot during leisure time, from school to school and from leisure activities. Walk and Bike Paths are one of the measures that the Government will increase its investment in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1238	I ask the President's permission to wish the Council of State a good new year! Then I am delighted to ask the Minister of Knowledge the following questions: ‘Is the Council of State willing to amend the Regulation of the Training Act in such a way that the Regulation explicitly requires teaching competence and not just ‘on addition’ competence?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1245	Let me return the wish for a good and peaceful new year for the representative of Dørum. The most important resource in the education sector is the people working there, and competent employees are the main prerequisite for good quality of education. It is also essential that teachers have the right skills in relation to their teaching responsibilities. In St.meld. No 16 [[2006-2007]] ‘There are children, young people and adults with low learning environments who lose most if practice and education policy are not sufficiently knowledge-based, because these groups depend to a greater extent than others on the resources and quality of the public education system.’ Of the measures mentioned in the Communication, an assessment of current teacher training and the future requirements for teachers are central. It is true, as Dørum points out, that today's regulations on teacher competence regulate the competence required to be appointed as a teacher. In the big news we have notified a review of these provisions. In concrete terms, we will consider introducing new skills requirements to teach in key subjects at certain stages of training. This could be done, for example, by: think that it is right to require greater specialisation of teachers who are required to teach in languages and in real-time youth. We're at the beginning of this work, so it's too early to conclude. In addition, we need to ensure that there is a close link between the provisions of the regulation on competence and the content of our teacher training. I will therefore work in parallel with these two relationships. It will also be necessary to consider any regulatory changes, and the timing of such changes, to address the practical possibilities for school owners to recruit teachers with new skills. So we don't have to make demands in the regulation that it's impossible for the school owner to meet because there's not enough staff with such qualifications for the positions to be filled. Due account must also be taken of the specificities of small schools which can only employ teachers with special skills in some very small job vacancies. I also mention that in the work now being done by the Ministry, I will ensure close contact with all stakeholders throughout the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1267	I am very pleased that the Council of State stresses the importance of teachers being good – that they have good competence. The purpose of promoting the question is to get a regulation as the question suggests, to make sure that it is clicked on so that teachers can be good — that is. good, broad and systematic training now — pressure on further training and, as the Left suggests, a year of competence, which is now under an obligation of the City Council of Oslo, but also, as the Council of State had in mind, what is associated with teacher training. But before we're going to change the teacher's education, as the Left wants, and to which I've registered that the Council of State is open, it's absolutely vital that we have pressure on our training courses, on our continuing training courses. I just want to ask the Council of State, through the President, to make sure that not just adding such a regulation creates an ambition, which one then commits to a systematics in order to reach, through good training, good further education, to the joy of teachers, for the school, the students and the whole community. That's the purpose and the way of thinking behind the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1274	When NOKUT’s evaluation of teacher training came, this was the relationship that Dørum’s representative now addresses, one of the aspects that I already addressed in the summary. And we've been through the big news... and no one was left, which was presented just before Christmas, problematizing the same thing. But, of course, as the representative is familiar with, this kind of process takes some time, both dialogue with the parties and the fact that we have special conditions at Norwegian school – not least we have a very decentralised school structure, with small schools, which makes it possible to introduce a regulation without further delay to create problems. In addition, we need to ensure that there are teachers' powers to fill these jobs if we introduce these kinds of requirements. But there's a lot of good arguments to do that, and that's why I so clearly say that we're in a process of this. I also record with great satisfaction that the parties of the school, i.e. the Local Association of Municipalities and the Federation of Education, as the largest teacher – and also the students, I understand – are not strangers to such an idea. This process I think has its own dynamics that will make us come back at some point with this. But I think the representative Dørum with his long political experience understands that this kind of question requires dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1285	I am definitely concerned about dialogue, and the dialogue is taking place right now between the Council of State and me. It's not an unknown legal method in Norway that we're putting an ideal into the law. Then we have to get plans and systematics to reach the ideals. What has worried me so much that I have asked the question so in cash and directly now, knowing the Council of State's broad message about the school, is simply the messages we get about how the training after the Knowledge promise varies in the country. There's some places where you get a good deal, and some places where you get a lot less. Of course, I am aware that there has been a difference between the phase-in years – the school leaders should have their own, the teachers should have their own. But this concern, which is clearly about the fact that there is not enough pressure on those responsible locally – that is, where the responsibility lies – that competence is important, is what has made me ask the question of assessing this regulatory change directly, and faster than you can do the other. I have to ask the Council of State specifically to assess this in order to ensure the pressure on obliging training, because it is the one to ensure the teachers we now have, and not the ones we might be training after a reform in teacher training in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1294	Questions related to the training of teachers and the large resources that society is now providing, I have answered several times in Stortinget. The concern expressed by a number of representatives is a concern that I also share, in the sense that we are dealing with it and now, together with school owners and educational staff, in particular the Education Association, are in a dialogue to ensure that we are more sure of this. My very definite impression is that we are in a very good path with this. The Stortinget has recently set up a new 375 million. available for the further training of teachers, relating to the promise of knowledge. New subjects this year are going to have the main focus, but it is true, as the representative of Dørum says, that in the first round it was the most important school management. Now it's the second subject, not least mathematics and language, that's to be emphasized. My very clear impression is that the school is ready for this. Of course, when we make so much money available, we also demand something back, and that's that we get more skilled teachers, who teach our kids more, which is the school's main task.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1305	I am well given the opportunity to wish both the President and the Minister of Knowledge a good new year, and am delighted to ask the following questions: ‘Good apprenticeships and strong apprenticeships will ensure good transitions for young people into working life. Norwegian is a good example of a company that has been actively involved in creating a good and broad apprenticeship offer. The opposition to Norwegian, who has made a solid and good setup, is strange in view of the fact that the education system is struggling to find enough apprenticeship places in total. In the light of the opinions of the Council of State in this matter, does he consider that the entire apprenticeship system must be amended?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1314	Let me also take the opportunity to congratulate Mr Gundersen on a peaceful new year, and hope that it will be good for him and his family. We've had a positive development in the number of apprenticeships. But it is right, as the representative Gundersen mentions, that in some disciplines there is a need for more apprenticeships. Among other things, this applies to the travel service subject, where there is a shortage of apprenticeships relative to the number of applicants. It is therefore positive that Norwegian wants to recruit apprentices and train skilled workers in this subject. I have registered the press releases on the intake of apprentices in Norwegian. It is as well-known as the county council and vocational training student who recognizes apprenticeships and apprenticeships and supervises the traineeships they require. The specific matter of the wholesaler refers to is being discussed in the Vocational Training Department in Akershus, and I therefore see no reason or opportunity to carry out a further assessment of this matter at this stage. That's about. 11 500 apprenticeships in Norway, and the feedback I get, show that the apprenticeship system works well. Of course, if the examination of the case in the vocational training field were to show that there are general shortcomings in the legislation on the apprenticeship system that prevent recruitment or good relations around the apprentice, we need to take a closer look at this. We will then, of course, deal with this in cooperation with the Vocational Training Cooperation Council and in the light of the technical advice for the various vocational training programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1325	I guess I got about the answer I expected. One of the questions is to focus on the big challenge we have of providing both enough places and places of satisfactory quality for apprentices. I think a lot of the code around the issue of non-response, among other things. higher education is in finding good apprenticeships. I also registered that the Minister of Knowledge was at Færder High School in Tønsberg, a school that obviously had broken at least parts of the code and had many satisfied students. But here we see that it's against the working life, both public and private, that you have to break the code. Norwegian is a whole-hearted enterprise that has gone in to try to create a good apprenticeship offer. I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge if he thinks the way the case has been presented, and the way Norwegian has been met is a constructive way of building a good apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1334	As I said in my first answer, I will refrain from commenting on a matter which is being dealt with in another body, which has been given this mandate. On the general level, however, I would like to say that we have a good apprenticeship system in Norway. I have a very good and close cooperation with the Cooperation Council for Vocational Training. We have a very good cooperation with both the employer and the employee through this council. I personally took the initiative to do the apprenticeship scheme in August of this year, where the parties met in my office. It has been shown to have a positive effect. In addition, the government itself has now for the first time sent out letters to all our underlying agencies with an order to bring in apprentices. In many respects, the State and the public have not been the best, and there are many interesting vocational training courses that the public should make greater use of. I have good faith that the measures taken by me will help more young people learn. I can confirm what Gundersen says, that learning and getting an apprentice's job and later a tradesman's status is a very important part of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1339	I've had several meetings with Norwegian myself. And I actually have a small enterprise itself that is recognized as an apprentice enterprise. I don't think many companies have been so actively involved in creating a good product and have been in such an active dialogue with the public as Norwegian. I don't think maybe everything's done right, I guess no one thinks. But the point is that here you've had an active dialogue to try to create a good product all the time, and then such an enterprise is met with quite massive criticism for some reason. Then there are some attitudes that should be processed. Because it is clear that we have a lack of apprenticeship places, hardly because the companies think the scheme is too good initially. So it's about having a good dialogue on how to get this done. As I read the Minister of Knowledge, he will also help to ensure that the kind of attitudes that have been expressed here will not destroy constructive dialogues in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1344	So, as I have said, the vocational training department in Akershus is dealing with this matter. But it's not hard to understand that there's been any question mark around this. There are many aspects of this matter on which questions have rightly been asked, and therefore it is also authorised to the vocational training topic, of course in dialogue with Norwegian and others, to find the answers to the questions raised in the public debate. I do not understand that this matter concerns the apprenticeship system as such, because the apprenticeship system as such is a very good system. That means that we in our government are doing what we can to make more young people have the opportunity to learn. It's a very good thing -- getting a vocational education is a very important thing for the individual and for our society. The problem of non-response, as the representative also mentioned, we have presented to Stortinget in the big news that came just before Christmas, which I look forward to a comprehensive and thorough treatment of here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1355	This question, from the representative Hans Olav Syversen to the Minister of Justice, is answered by the Minister of Health and Welfare on behalf of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1358	When the Minister of Justice is not here, the Minister of Health and Health is a good alternative, because the question also tends towards her area of responsibility: ‘Filling and violence is a major problem in Oslo centre during the weekends, especially linked to the streets of Rosenkrantz. According to data presented in the Evening Post on 28 December last year, a violence report with analyses of developments is ‘in a drawer’. It also points to the need for a more detailed analysis of the entire outpatient violence in order to implement the necessary measures. Will the Council of State contribute to the active use of the report to combat the crime of violence in the centre of Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1367	The relationship we see between alcohol use and violence is one of the best documented links we have in the field of crime. We see that both the increase and the fall in violent crime are closely related to alcohol consumption and in this perspective also to the policy of giving locally. The government is concerned that the police will further develop local cooperation on crime and drug prevention. It is, however, the responsibility of the municipalities to implement a sensible yield policy. Similarly, it is also up to governments and magnificence to focus on the implications of the practical implementation of the Scandal policy and, in particular, to facilitate a greater view of the impact of local policy decisions. In this context, I would like to point out the work we are now doing to establish police councils in the municipalities so that the police can have greater opportunities to be heard in the discussion on drug and alcohol policy, with a view to preventing crime. When it comes to combating the crime of violence in Oslo, I have been informed by the Police Directorate that the Oslo Police District is continuously working and focused on this. The visible patrols are, as the representative is sure to know, strengthened, and there are deployed patrols in fixed positions in the most congested areas. From the centre of the police station, there is an active follow-up to points of contact that are plagued with violence and disorder in the centre of Oslo, with particular emphasis on the conditions in Rosenkrantz’s street. Problem-oriented police work as a general and knowledge-driven method of work is part of the station’s work on violence and unrest. As part of this effort, a report was produced on the violence in Rosenkrantz’s street in Oslo. The report is, as I've become aware of it, an internal working document that is actively used both internally and in the dialogue with police partners. It is therefore not true that the report is «in a drawer». It is clear from the report that cooperation with other actors is a prerequisite for combating the conditions that lead to violence. The report has also been discussed with the prosecution authority to assess the most appropriate prosecution decisions in violence. The report will be further developed and included as part of a major report on police work on violent crime in Oslo police districts, among others. in the 2007 violence study to be developed by the district, where nightlife violence throughout the centre of Oslo will also be monitored and analysed. I am pleased that the Oslo police district underlines the need for good analysis of the situation in the Oslo centre, and that a security-creating effort is being made to combat violent crime, especially in the evening, in line with the need to be identified. In view of the fact that the Directorate of Police underlined the further development of the report and a knowledge-based police work against the crime of violence, I am confident that the police's analysis of the violence situation in Oslo Centre will be used in the future police work here.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1384	What the Council of State now says about how the report has been used and will be used is, of course, considered to be negligible. At the same time, there is something in contrast to what the station manager at the Centre police station himself says: “The truth is that we haven’t done 100 percent of what we can with the analysis We have kept it internally because it’s not a research project.” And then, “After getting the analysis, we know more about the violence picture, even though we haven’t used the report completely.” [[...]] So the Council of State says that this report will be used as part of a larger work, which will, I hope, be presented. I would like confirmation that this larger report is being made known to all the partners that the police depend on to get a safer city, a cooperation that the Council of State itself also specified was necessary. This applies to the municipality, and to other public services with which you are in contact. So my question is whether you can confirm that that will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1391	As I know the Minister of Justice and the excellent staff he is responsible for, I think everyone is interested in getting as much as possible access to what are the challenges, and what we should jointly contribute from every point of view to doing something about it. I will take with me the views of the representative, Mr Syversen, back to the Minister of Justice, with the wish that this should be made public as far as possible. I have no objection to it, because in the context of the great work that is now under way for the current year, it is very important that both local politicians, the police and not least those who work on drugs – which is my main responsibility – know about each other and that a person takes action that works. There is no doubt that in parts of this city, as the representative points out, there are significant challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1396	I am pleased with the answer, which I take as a positive answer to my question. So that's what the Council of State says, that there are many other actors than the police that are important to get to a safe city. The Council of State is itself responsible for the alcohol law, and questions have been raised as to whether the law of the police’s right of objection should be strengthened in relation to authorization cases. Is there anything the Council of State might think of looking at?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1401	I don't want to take it on a tight arm here, but we're assessing different solutions. Like the representative Syversen, I am very concerned about the developments we are seeing in the areas of gesticulation, violence and unrest, not least in this city, but also in part of our other major cities, and we must take this seriously. In this respect, I believe that the police of course play a very important role in the job they do, but they also play an important role in telling me what reality really is, and I think we are all fooling ourselves into trying to gain transparency in order to take the right action. So we want to have good cooperation with the police also from the health authorities in order to be able to contribute with local politicians, who need to make final decisions, for example. as to the number of points of discovery it makes sense to have in this city.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1417	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1425	Initially, I will be allowed to wish both the President and the Minister of Health and Health a good and healthy new year, and we will hope it will be as good as the previous one. So to the question: ‘The financial balance has been decided by the regional health establishments as from 1 January of this year, with the exception of Health Mid-Norway, which has been authorised to report a deficit of 350 million in 2007. One receives constant notifications that the balance sheet requirement does not seem to be met in 2007. Can the Council confirm that the balance sheet requirement is stable and does the Council believe that this will not lead to a reduction in treatment provision for patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1434	I would also like both the representative of Nesvik and everyone else here in Stortinget to have a good new year. To the question: I want to remind you first of all of the changes that have taken place in health companies' performance measurements, which the representative of course Nesvik knows very well. Health enterprises have been measured on a corrected profit or loss up to and including 2006. This has changed from the year in which the annual profit or loss of the undertakings is no longer to be corrected. The difference between the corrected profit or loss and the uncorrected profit or loss is that full depreciation costs relating to the opening balance sheet of the undertakings are to be derived entirely from the profit or loss concept of the undertakings now governed by. The profit and loss requirement adopted by the Stortinge for 2007 represents an accounting deficit of up to DKK 1.4 billion, known to the representative. This is an uncorrected deficit and results in the Storting's requirement for balance sheet in the other operations being continued in the current year. This, of course, applies to all regional health enterprises and simply means that regional health enterprises must keep their budgets within the resources provided by the Storting. The representative Nesvik himself said that Health Middle Norway is the only region authorised to postpone the balance sheet requirement equivalent to 350 million. kr during the treatment of the revised national budget for 2006. I have also received messages from Health Mid-Norway and Health Nord that they will find it difficult to achieve the Storting's performance requirements for the current year. I take that information seriously, but I can't imagine that both of these health care companies themselves have reported a lack of economic governance and follow-up as one of the reasons why it is difficult to achieve a financial balance in the current year. I am concerned that both Health Nord and Health Mid-Norway, in line with other regions and hospitals, have to have control of the costs, so that they match the means that the Storting makes available – not because it is a goal in itself, but in order to get proper patient treatment and to be able to give proper priority. As the representative knows, at the end of January of this year I will conduct business meetings with all the regional health companies, where, of course, management requirements are set on the economic and organisational side. Of course, if the situation would necessitate changes in performance requirements in relation to what the Stortinge provided, I will inform Storting appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1447	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What the Council of State did not have in mind in this answer, but as I hope she mentions in her next, is precisely this requirement that economic balance be maintained within the framework that is now laid down. Does the Council of State continue to believe – as it says in the budget – that it will be possible to maintain the number of patients treated in 2006 and also in 2007? In this case, the signals coming from regional health businesses, and not least from hospitals themselves, are poor. I was last Monday visiting a trade unionist at St. Olav's Hospital. The scenario presented is a little daunting precisely because you see how scarce the economic situation is. Last night we saw a report on the TV 2 news about the food supply that seems to be getting in the Health West. Can the Council of States continue to insist on maintaining the same level of activity in 2007 as in 2006?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1456	Yes, we have laid a good foundation in the proposal submitted by the Government to the Stortinget, which has been adopted, so that one can continue activity at the same level as last year. Then, of course, I am also aware that in some health companies there is a demanding situation. It's nothing new. I've heard that many times before, and I'll take it very seriously, of course. That is why I have a close dialogue with all health businesses, and therefore business meetings at the end of the month become important. Then I expect the representative Nesvik and I to agree that it is important that all healthcare companies have financial control, and that they do not spend more money than the Stortinget says they should. Now, knowingly, from other people than me, we have been told that there are at least two health care companies that have spent more money, significantly more money than what they've been given, that's a challenge. It's a challenge that regional health businesses have to do something about, because no one can spend more money than they have at their disposal. I believe that the representative also agrees.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1463	It is quite clear that I agree that you should not spend more money than what you actually have. What I and the Council of State disagree on is the size of the funds to be allocated. I and the Progress Party believe that the funds being distributed are too small. But it's a completely different discussion, and I'm dealing with it. Does the Council of State see the concern that is now in Health-Norway, precisely because one has to come to a financial balance? This means that one has to change the operation. One has to reorganize. One has to take a number of measures. Furthermore, it has also been clearly stated that no local hospital should be closed. This means that the structure must also be maintained. The question then is: how do you relate to these things on the savings side in order to balance the economy, when the level has been set for 2007 after the same reading as in 2006, just as it appears in the state budget? The government has also said that money is only given once a year now, and it is in the state budget. That is what the Council of State itself said from the pulpit in Stortinget. Does the Council of State see the concern that is out there now, with the offer that patients actually get?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1470	Yes, I see that these are challenges, absolutely. I'm serious about that. That is why I have a close dialogue with health businesses. But it is that in the health business that has been in balance since we started the reform, Health East, there are also demanding operations – so it is not only in those parts of the country where there has been poor governance. We have to try to have justice in what we do. It is therefore that all patients across the country should be cared for within the framework of responsibility. Patients who are subject to the Patient Rights Act should receive their treatment. If they cannot get it at the hospital to which they wish or want to go, they must get it elsewhere in the country, and if it is not possible there, they must leave the country, if it is governed by the law. We're gonna make sure of that. For the debate on local hospitals. I can again state that this government is going to maintain all local hospitals. We're going to look at the contents of them. We have a sample that looks at the local hospitals, and their work comes in March. Last night I visited a very interesting hospital, former Askim Hospital, which is now called Health House Askim, which is a very exciting collaboration between the public, private and voluntary. I think there's a lot of the model that many others can learn from -- not exactly do it the same, but in the same way, also in other parts of the country, so that patients get faster treatment and come back to work faster. So here it's very interesting, and for someone there's no doubt that there's still something to go on doing things a different way – not that employees should fly faster, but for the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1483	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Health the following questions: ‘The population of Svalbard understandably has the desire and need for a predictable local medical service of high quality. The distance to the mainland indicates that the most healthcare is provided in Longyearbyen. Today, people living on Svalbard are listed by a mainland permanent resident who receives grants for a patient who is unlikely to see this doctor for purely practical reasons. Does the government see the possibility of changing the system, so that people living on Svalbard can choose a local doctor as their permanent physician and that the grant is included?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1492	The basis for the development of the healthcare provision to the population of Svalbard is, as the representative is well-known, specific rules laid down in the regulation of 15 June 1928 on «medical and health conditions» on Svalbard, based in Svalbard Act § 4. The health legislation of the mainland is not adapted to the specific conditions of Svalbard. The hospital in Longyearbyen is, as you know, central to the provision of health services to the population and has been run by the state since 1981. By St.meld. No 9 for 1999-2000, Svalbard, the general objective of the hospital is to provide adequate health services to the Norwegian population on Svalbard and to all others travelling on the island group. The hospital offers as well-known medical services, nursing services, health care, school health services, physiotherapy services, occupational health services and dental services, while being an emergency medical emergency hospital. Activities at the hospital were re-prioritised from 1998 because the need for health care was changed and communication and transport possibilities for the Tromsø/University Hospital in North Norway were improved. Therefore, general medical activities and preventive health work were strengthened and surgical emergency preparedness reduced. As of 2000, two general practitioners and one surgeon covered the watch and medical care system. The number of outpatient consultations on Svalbard is high in relation to the population. The hospital believes that this is partly due to good accessibility to the hospital, partly – of course – increasing tourist traffic The State covers, as is known, the cost of health care provided on Svalbard when the patient has the right to cover health care expenditure and sickness benefits under the Swedish Social Security Act. A person residing in Svalbard has the right to benefits from popular security if he was covered by the Swedish Social Security Act before the stay took place, or he works for the Norwegian employer. When a patient with public health rights is sent to the mainland for treatment, he/she has the right to the necessary health services under the Local Health and Special Health Act for as long as he/she is in the mainland. The purpose of the fixed medical device is, as the representative knows, inter alia: to improve the quality of the general medical service by enabling citizens to deal with a regular general practitioner over time, so as to ensure continuity in the medical/patient relationship. For residents staying at Svalbard, such continuity is maintained by the three doctors who are at all times employed at the hospital in Longyearbyen. Health professionals working at Svalbard are employed in temporary posts of two to three years. Therefore, within this period, there will be continuity of medical care independent of the list system and funding scheme. This, along with good availability for several types of medical services, I see this as an important feature of the Longyearbyen offer. The fact that the inhabitants are still on the list of permanent residents in the mainland does not prevent good medical care for the inhabitants of Svalbard. On the contrary, I believe that this represents a security for the inhabitants when they move back to the mainland. It is clear from that big news that, although the mainland has become more and more the same in Longyearbyen, this community is different, among other things. in the case of population composition. The Longyearbyen hospital has a special profile with a focus on public health, where the proximity of the population is important. The provision of health services was considered to be well dimensioned in relation to population numbers and composition. The organisation of the service was also considered satisfactory. In summary, those who live on Svalbard can get the medical services they need, there. They don't have to go to the mainland to get a doctor.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1513	I would like to thank you for your answer. A lot is especially on Svalbard, but like the rest of us, people get sick – and it's also the case on Svalbard that in between it peaks. What I'm familiar with is that you've made a kind of work division between the hospital and the private doctor who's established up there. It is also true that some of the adult population use this private doctor because one wants the same doctor to follow one through a course of illness. The system works this way today that if you go to the doctor and do not use the hospital, and are listed on the mainland with a permanent resident, you pay other rates, and you do not get the reimbursement or follow-up via the Norwegian social security system that you could have received. Once again, I would like to ask the Council of State whether there are other ways to practice this when people at Svalbard actually choose the private doctor as their permanent physician — for the mainland population, it is possible to choose for themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1522	Yes, I'd like to check it even a little bit more. But as I hear the representative of Aspaker present the situation, I would say that this is also the case on the mainland, as the representative knows well, that if you choose a private doctor who does not have an agreement with the public, you have to pay a higher proportion of the bill than if you choose a public offer. As I hear it now being made, it's the same situation as long as people have the opportunity to choose a public offer, where there's a lower proportion. I believe from the knowledge I have about it, that the inhabitants of Svalbard are well covered by the offer that is, both public and private. Then it must be a choice, then, public or private, as it is on the mainland.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1529	I thank you so much for the answer, but the principle here is that we who live in mainland Norway can actually choose our own decision. This principle does not apply to the Norwegian population of Svalbard. I then understand that even if there is a private doctor up there, you will not be able to choose him as your permanent resident – so there is a different principle for Svalbard than for the mainland. Is that correct? Is that correctly understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1534	Well, the difference is that you have fewer doctors to choose from on Svalbard than you have on the mainland, because there are not so many doctors available at Longyearbyen Hospital. But as I understand it, it's an option – it's possible to choose between the doctors who work in Longyearbyen at any time, and the private doctor. I would like to examine this even further, but initially it is a clear principle on our part that as long as we have an offer of choice and a good public offer that meets the need, we cannot have other rules on Svalbard in relation to providing medical services to private people than we have on the mainland. But let me go over another round, just to make sure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1545	First, good new year for all. I want to ask the Minister of Health and Health the following questions – it is a follow-up to a question I had in the November Question Time: ‘The board of Health Finnmark decided on 12 December last year to merge the rehabilitation unit for strokes with the medical department in Kirkenes. A specialised section of 6 patients is now standing unused. 8 therapists and trade unions are removed. There is no available capacity in Health North or Norway for other purposes. Does the Council of State believe that Health Finnmark/Health Nord by its decision ensures rehabilitation for all those who need it in Finnmark?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1556	I also wish you a good new year. Rehabilitation and training are a priority area for the Government. In the Soria Moria statement, we want to ensure rehabilitation and training for everyone who needs it. The area was a priority in the order document of the regional health establishments in 2006. This priority is confirmed in the mission document, as it is now called, which is sent out to the regional health establishments in the current year as well. This provides the framework for how Health Nord and Health Finnmark will work in rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Health Nord has informed me about the matter that was raised in the question. The starting point is, as I understand it, that the patient offer in the Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation is integrated into the Medical Department, and that this is a reorganization. According to Health Nord, this reorganisation should not lead to the closure of the rehabilitation offer. In a letter to Health Finnmark dated 2 January 2007, Health Nord asked Health Finnmark to consider setting up a separate professional management team with a separate departmental supervisor. Therapeutic exhibitions and other professional positions shall be subject to such management. I assume that the provision of rehabilitation both for stroke patients and for other patient groups is appropriately organised, so that those who need help actually get it. Those in need of rehabilitation shall be provided with it and resources shall be used in such a way that the provision of rehabilitation services is adequately equipped with competent staff and necessary medical devices. I therefore stress that Health Nord should have a care-responsibility for patients who need rehabilitation. I can also inform the representative that the Government is now working on a separate matter of rehabilitation. This applies to the whole country, and the purpose is to get better and more rehabilitation and not worse and less.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1569	I would like to thank you for your answer. I have a follow-up question: it has been a constant challenge for several decades to ensure the necessary skills for the two local hospitals in Finnmark, so that the population of the country's largest county can have a relevant home health service. The professional environment we have today is small and very vulnerable, and even a small dissipation of this will bring the offer back by default. It will take a very long time to rebuild it. At the same time as Health Finnmark is going to make significant cuts, we are experiencing major changes in management, in parallel with the fact that a number of key professionals, especially at the Church Hospital, are now signaling that they are assessing their employment. There are already redundancies. How does the Council of State view the possibility for Health Finnmark to recruit and stabilise professionals in, for example: Rehabilitation when, in principle, the only unit we have in place today for stroke patients has been closed? In addition, this is one of the most successful projects in the enterprise that has often been built up over ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1578	After the briefing I've received from Health Nord, it's not about closure, it's about reorganization and inclusion in another department. You are now working on getting a separate department meeting and, of course, getting qualified personnel or using those who were in the second department for this important job. The point here is that Health Nord – and thus Health Finnmark – has a responsibility to ensure that residents of Finnmark are also offered rehabilitation. That's what's most important to me. The way they choose to organise this offer is the responsibility of Health Finnmark and Health Nord. I've just emphasized to Health Nord that they're going to have a responsibility for everyone who needs rehabilitation. They have to make sure that that happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1585	I would like to thank you for that answer too. My last question is: there is now an overall state that is concerned about the consequences of the recently adopted cuts in Health Finnmark. The County of Finnmark also considers the situation to be very worrying in relation to the population’s demands for services under the Special Health Act and has addressed the Council of State. We have a desire to maintain the settlement throughout the country, but we are today experiencing a large dislocation from the county, where lack of services is an important reason for this. Therefore, in view of the government's announced bet in the north, it appears as a paradox that the health offer is being reduced. In such a situation, we would expect the opposite to happen. The cost analysis of Health Finnmark makes it visible that it costs more to operate a specialist health service that is equivalent to that of the county population than it does for an equivalent concentrated population of small distances, e.g. in a district of Oslo. We have very large distances within the county, and people live very widely. Are the Councils willing to look at the funding system we have today, and possibly change it?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1594	Let me immediately say that I understand that there is a difficult situation in several parts of the country, including in Finnmark. Then I could spend some time saying something about why Health Nord has ended up where they are, because they also have to fix their siblings. But I find reason to state that although it is demanding, and we are trying to do something about it, the government that is now sitting has given significantly more money to hospitals than the government of which the party of Vera Lysklätt was a member a short time ago. Then I am concerned that patients throughout the country should, of course, be provided with the necessary treatment and receive the rights they have under the law. In terms of distribution of income, I have recently reduced a sample that is to give it to me during this year. It has to look at many things, including the distribution across the country. One of the things that they need to look at is whether this is done remotely enough in the income system. So we'll see about that. Another thing that is not least important for Finnmark is that of local hospitals. It comes about an adjustment in mid-March, and I will come back to Stortinget in an appropriate way with suggestions on how things should be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1603	Question 14 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1610	I want to start by wishing the Minister of Agriculture and Food a good new year. I hope he's had a long and good Christmas holiday. My question to the Council of State is: ‘The ground law prohibition is a major interference with ownership. Landowners who have built up the property over generations are given reduced opportunities to realise the real values of the use. In letter dated 6 December last year, the Council of State elaborates on the practice of the ban on sharing. It shows, among other things: the prohibition of sharing shall be interpreted more stringently in relation to the construction and dissociation of immovable property. How will more stringent practices affect the values, the ability to adapt and the willingness to invest in agriculture?’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1621	I am concerned that the agricultural property represents resources that can be exploited in the industrial context and as a place of residence, and I believe that legislation and practices should provide for long-term management in line with this. The property cannot then be seen in isolation as a capital object on the part of the landowner, as the representative Hansen seems to use when talking about the owner’s ‘possibilities to realise the real values of the use’. When the value of the property lies in the potential for commercial exploitation, I consider the ban on sharing in the law to be an important prerequisite for keeping the resources on the farm together. In general, the combined use of property resources is essential to ensure value creation, living settlements and robust communities. Of course, in some cases the value of redundancy can also be created. Such legislation as it stands today may, upon application and after a concrete assessment by the municipality, be exempted from the ban on division. This is a solution that ensures that resources can be shared if there are societal reasons to do so. The current scheme is in line with the solution adopted by Stortinget on the grounds that the issue of the lifting of the ban on sharing was addressed in Stortinget last summer and was also addressed in the debate in Stortinget in connection with changes to the law on soil in November last year. Agriculture has undergone a significant change in recent years, including: it is absolutely necessary to look carefully at the cost of owning and operating a farm. Significant costs relate to the construction and maintenance of identical dwellings and other building masses. At the same time, changes in agriculture and society also mean that the need for housing is not as great today as for example. 20 years ago. Overall, this implies that consent to introduce a new union dwelling should only be given if there is no doubt that the union dwelling is necessary for the operation of the farm in the course of a generation change. If one has first found that the union dwelling is necessary for the purpose of operating, it should not be allowed, as a consequence, to divide the house away in order to obtain a short-term gain in the form of sales of residential or leisure property. I am aware that the sale of the union house as a self-catering dwelling or as a leisure home in many cases could give the owner a realisable value that is higher than the value the house has as part of the agricultural property. In my view, this is not essential for the assessment of how sharing practices should be addressed. A union dwelling necessary for the operation cannot be seen as a general dwelling or leisure house or as a capital value that can be used to realise new projects. The value of the union dwelling is in the contribution it makes to the smooth operation of the generation change. If the municipality has made a proper assessment of the need for a state dwelling when the dwelling was built, it argues that no permit is granted to dissociate the dwelling unless the need has changed significantly over time. Representative Hansen refers to a letter dated 6 December last year. I am somewhat unsure which letter this is about. My view, however, is from my letter to the municipalities, the county agricultural authorities, the county councillors and the state agricultural administration dated 21 December 2006. The same is clearly provided for in the preparatory work on the prohibition of division, and long-term and firm practices have been used. This practice ensures the values of nutrition. Conversions and investments are linked to private economic balances but should not, as a general rule, be based on the de-allocation of resources necessary for the operation of the farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1634	The letter I have mentioned in my question has as its title: ‘On the practicalisation of the divisional provision and on changes in the law of the land and the repeal of six laws’. My copy is dated December 6th. But I think the Council of State has responded to the right letter, to say it like this. I find it striking to record the lack of commitment of the Centre Party to the individual farmer's ownership and the lack of confidence in the individual farmer's ability to assess what is good or bad for his use. The prohibition of sharing as a principle is based on a view that it is not a landowner but the society that is closest to assessing what is the best possible use of the property for the future. I believe that is a degradation of the farmer's own right of governance. However, this is also a matter of agriculture, because capital access is essential to be able to invest in the future, and it is clear that the ban on sharing reduces the possibility of increased access to agricultural capital. Has the Government estimated the value of Norwegian farmers losing this interference in ownership? Where applicable: how much would the values potentially have increased for the farmers if the ban on sharing had been lifted?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1645	It is possible to understand the opinion of the representative from the Right on the subject of agricultural policy. When the focus is so clear on access to capital, it becomes even clearer. It is easy to see that other means of raising agricultural capital are needed when right-wing action in the budget is taken in relation to access to agricultural capital. The government has opted for an offensive line in the agricultural structure and a level in relation to agriculture which will allow the development of agriculture without having to resort to short-term gains in the form of this type of realization. I note that the Right Strategy is the opposite, that is to say, it is a matter of running significant impairments through the access to capital through the commercial agreements, and at the same time encourages the realisation of capital in terms of the values that the farm has as part of the operating base.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1652	Agriculture is undergoing significant conversion. It goes out thousands of annual works every year. It is clear that there are many farmers who must undergo a conversion and leave the industry as a result of the conversion in agriculture and the rationalisation that is taking place there. Then I believe it is unreasonable for those who leave the farm not to realize the values on the farm, as a result of the regulation that the government is tightening up. At the end of the letter, the Council of State writes that he is concerned about several issues related to concession. It is stated in the letter that the department has started work both on housing and on price control. Occupancy and price control are other strong interferences in ownership that prevent landowners from exploiting value in use. Right, on its side, wants to repeal the entire concession law. My question is: What is the Government's starting point and mandate for the work undertaken on housing and price control, and what direction and progress can we expect with regard to this work on the tightening up of ownership?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1661	My starting point is a holistic approach to agricultural policy. This means that we provide those involved in agriculture in Norway with opportunities within a political framework consisting of import protection, a law and a willingness to use budgetary transfers to pay for common goods produced by Norwegian agriculture. It is a plus that Norwegian agriculture is given and that the political environment in Norway — government and growth — could not be done. Within it, there are indications from the large community that a desire for a given development of agriculture and to make some premises as to how to want developments in property structure, tuna solutions and how to look at the countryside, and also the relationship between housing and industrial activities, are part of a holistic approach to agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-01-10.ana.ud211e1666	The ordinary query procedure is over and the current map has thus been completed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
