ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e50	The Progress Party does not accept the myth that the social democratic welfare state is a system that other countries should copy. Our wealth has in reality led to the old slogan of the labour movement «Do your duty, demand your right» no longer applicable, but has been replaced by «Do as you wish, the public pays». The result of this thinking we see today, as the Norwegian society is experiencing deficiencies in almost all areas, in stark contrast to the rosy image of the representative Sandal and, not least, the representative Klungland drawn earlier in the debate. We have hospital cows, with 200,000 in line. We have cows and prisoners who are released early in order to make room for new ones. We have very poor knowledge dissemination in school, the weakest in the OECD area. We have a lot of trouble in the classrooms – second most, according to the OECD, only turned off by Greece. We have resource shortages in public executive agencies, such as: in the police, where matters are being settled, and in the defense, where they are being subdued. We have a record public bureaucracy – much larger than in Sweden – compared to the population. We have a downturn in public infrastructure in all areas. We have 12-14 pst. – approx. 340,000 – by the labour force on disability benefits. We have 700,000 outside the ordinary labour market. Then there's no art to bring down the unemployment rate. We have a record social budget. We have a record high immigration of people – approx. 18,000 a year — with low or no education. I remember what's happening in France now. We all want it not to happen in Norway as well. We have a sky-high tax level and a sky-high tax level. We have an inclusive state, which removes the focus on individual responsibility and makes people clients. As little as passive assistance works in developing countries, little seems passive in Norway. It's just human nature. We are constantly getting new passive welfare schemes on the consumer side, while the infrastructure is getting confused on the investment side. When the Prime Minister claims that the Government spends the big money on the big tasks, I fear for the long-term consequences. The Progress Party believes that long-term budgets should be established, distinguishing consumption from investment. Such long-term budgets should include the lifetime costs of investments. This implies that maintenance costs, personnel consequences and upgrades must be included in the calculation. Long-term budgeting will also make it possible to see reduced maintenance costs for existing infrastructure – such as road and rail – and for defence equipment in conjunction with investment costs for new projects. For example, when the Defence acquires new transport aircraft, the operating and maintenance costs of the old transport aircraft will be reduced. The new aeroplanes will require less maintenance costs. This is not included in the calculation when the Government looks at projects. With long-term budgeting, Stortinget would not be able to decide to build new MTBs, and then to be informed that the defense cannot afford to put the boats into operation when they are finished. That won't be possible. Similarly, long-term budgeting will allow the dynamic effect of tax relief to be calculated. Although the Minister of Finance thought today that there are no such dynamic effects, I strongly doubt that statement. The first year will, of course, appear as a cost item on the government budget, but in subsequent years more revenue will be available due to more labour supply and more activity in the economy. Long-term budgets also need to distinguish how public money is used. The consequences of NOK 1 in tax bills are completely different from the impact of NOK 1 on the social budget. 1 kr used abroad has a completely different effect than 1 kr used in Norway. We do not see this in the budget today, it is not taken into account. Among the many looking for the code of action of the Progress Party, it will be: an upper limit on the growth of annual public consumption combined with full resource use of capacity for investments in the Norwegian economy, including tenders obtained abroad. Today’s rule of action, on the other hand, is a useless and useless tool for fiscal policy — and, in its ultimate consequence, very irresponsible. 4 pst. by a rapidly growing fund, there are no indicators of how much Norwegian public money can withstand domestic economy, while at the same time there are no constraints on the consumption side. To underline the inconsistency of the rule of action, I can say, as I said in a question earlier today, that the government wants to increase the state's ownership of StatoilHydro from 62.5 p.m. to 67 pst. This represents 143 million shares – or approximately. DKK 25 billion. This will not cost the government over the budget. According to the Government, there will be no impact on the Norwegian domestic economy of injecting NOK 25 billion into the stock market. According to the representative Akselsen, this money has no effect on the Norwegian economy, because shares are exchanged from the Staten pension fund – Foreign to shares in StatoilHydro. But you spend about 25 billion kroner when you buy these from other shareholders! This will go into the Norwegian economy, but has no consequences, according to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e76	A short time ago, we marked the two-year anniversary of the red-green majority government – in a very sober way, with sausages and loins. The summary so far is that we keep what we promise: less tax havens for those who have the most from before, in order to be able to spend more on the community. This is done not least through a strong improvement in the local economy, thereby increasing resources for health and care services, for kindergartens and for measures for people with a need for assistance. More than 50,000 have been lifted out of the queue and to work while today's government has been sitting by the power. It makes sense to a lot of people in Norwegian society. We have great goals and ambitions in this field, and we can never be too good. Over time, we have been hurt all too often to define people who are permanently unemployed, who are not. Even I learned a powerful lesson when I had the pleasure of working at an institution for so-called permanent alcohol damage, as it was then called. It turned out to be possible to get over 65 pst. by those on the labour market to work stable five days a week throughout the year, within the fishing industry, in the park services and with maintenance in the municipality. I've rarely seen a more proud worker. Today's government has combined to improve the local economy by approximately 21 billion kroner measured at 2008 prices. Of that, a total of 10.2 billion kroner is growing in free income. Now I see that the right in its alternative budget has a cut of 250 million. kr in the framework grant to the county, a cut of 250 million. kr for regional development and a cut of 119 million. kr for free textbooks. I have had the pleasure of sitting as rapporteur both under the previous regime and under today's government. The difference is quantifiable with regard to the investment in the local government sector. We were told that we had enough money from the senior state councils in the right-hand-dominated Bondevik government, and that we had to thank ourselves for the poor economy. The review melody from the municipal minister was that we used the money incorrectly, that we were not good enough to improve efficiency, and not least that we had too little focus on competitive outsourcing or privatisation. There is now optimism in the municipal sector, and municipalities provide good services to citizens. There is and it has always been possible to find single examples where, unfortunately, there are people falling between several chairs. We should, no matter what the government or the state of affairs, tackle that in order to do better. We're going to be humble, and we all have to have the goal of getting better. Although we are in the process of meeting the target of 10,000 new annual jobs in the care sector earlier than foreseen by the end of 2009, we should not be blind because there are many challenges in the care of the elderly. It is not acceptable for us to have people in corridors, warehouses, and bathrooms. With regard to the alternate budgets of the opposition parties, it is interesting to see the continued gap between the ‘Registration comrades’ Progress Party and the Right. They are located in a number of areas far apart and not least far from the centre areas to which they are free. Yes, I'm going to say that the Progress Party is on a completely different planet. We see a tendency that the Right in theory tightens in relation to the Government's proposal. If we look at the various elements of the proposal, questions can rightly be asked whether the containment is real or not. One example is that the Right proposes cuts in the agricultural agreement. However, the problem is that the agricultural agreement has already been concluded for 2008. In my view, other cut proposals are also ‘airy assumptions’ in relation to savings, when one sees that this is about assumed efficiency gains and balancing through, among others. better coordination between health establishments. I'm "skin flat outline", as they say in North Cape when they're never so little surprised, that the Right's invitation to the Christian People's Party is to cut in aid. Nor can I understand that a cut in agricultural aid and development funds of over DKK 1.8 billion will contribute to some broad cooperation, assuming that the centre parties or parts of these parties are involved. When we look at the use of money by the Progress Party and also a formidable cut in aid and agricultural aid, it is difficult to see that there is a common alliance within the opposition. With the best goodwill, it's impossible to understand the contours of a government veil, much less of a proposal to marry in the next big period. I don't think there's a need for either one or two real beds, as the different positions stand out today. Simple breezes seem to last a long time if the courtship does not become more intense than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e106	It's obvious that today's government, like Alf E. Jamesen adds up to, largely holds up in a waterbed where it swells quite well at times! Norway is going very well. Our job as politicians is to get the good times to last as long as possible. Unfortunately, this is to a large extent a government for the lost opportunities, a government that does not use the good times to get them to last as long as possible. When the rest section of higher education and research becomes permanent, you no longer have a rest section — no, you're on a cutting edge. When, in two years' time, the Minister of Transport, in a period when the increase in expenditure has increased by NOK 116 billion, gets an extra NOK 2 billion, there are also a lack of priorities. When there is the opposition in the Great Britain, through the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Right, which delivers 61 points for an offensive and powerful environmental policy, it is the opposition that helps the Government exactly what it should do – take care of our common environment, and not least focus on increasing efforts on renewable energy, on trains and on the conservation of the rainforest, to mention some of the 61 points. What has been introduced by opposition demands has a cost framework that is below the cost framework for the kindergarten conciliation in the previous period. If one is serious about the slogan ‘the big money on the big tasks’, the environment should really come first. Then it is unreasonable, as very many of the government's representatives and especially the government's representatives have done in more speeches, to compare today's efforts with the efforts of the previous government two to five years ago. The expenditure growth has been DKK 116 billion – DKK 138 billion if you include the population’s money – from 2005 to today. It's a formidable growth. In that case, there should be no overarching priorities in a number of — almost all — areas. But it is the future of this debate that should really be about, and, to the right, there are three main principles that are laid down in our alternative budget. One is that it's going to pay off to work. So we've increased the minimum subtraction. We make it more profitable for older workers to work, both for a special deduction of NOK 6000 for those aged between 62 and 67. Not least, once again, we want to remove the abbreviation of the pension, not just for them between 67 and 68 years old, but for everyone between 67 and 70 years old. It's worth saving. It is obvious that the Government's slogan has become that it is worth saving, but only for the government. It's a private savings that's unusually important, not just for our neighboring country, but for Norway. And then it has to be established that investing in the future is just that. Then you should invest both in infrastructure, in research and education and in defence. Let me say that from 2001 to 2005, it was proven that using tax incentives for growth-enhancing tax relief has an effect. There's some of the things on the right that still have in the opposition. It has made it more attractive to live in Norway and work in Norway. We are far below where one should be, because there are too few international companies in, for example. Oslo, which chooses Norway when you settle down, when you see it in relation to both Copenhagen and Stockholm. So – fast in terms of fees: we have a tax jungle in Norway that is sometimes unruly. We got a selection of excise duties, which fortunately presented its position. However, there is also a complete lack of the most important thing, namely some principles relating to fees. Why you have a fee and how high it should be, the sample has not taken a decision. Another problem for the Excise Tax Committee was that the Government insisted on making it provincial neutral. It's a problem, and I think the government should take over when the selection setting is being processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e127	The budget debate is about the most important task that politicians have, namely the ability to prioritise. Even in the prosperity country of Norway, it must be given priority. Government parties must be allowed to boast about what they choose to use their incomes on, and it must be legal for opposition parties to believe that their alternatives are better. But it also belongs in a budget debate to point out where the money comes from. The tax and tax system ensures the income of the community. In addition, they have the additional function of ensuring a better distribution. And then we are in a hurry to debate more in this Chamber have taken part in earlier today, namely the debate on combating poverty. Combating poverty is not about finding a hokus pokus solution, as Bjarne Håkon Hanssen spoke about before the break today. It is about finding measures that get people to work, about having a service offer in municipalities that provide vulnerable groups with help when they need it, whether it's related to drugs, psychiatry, child protection, etc. It is also about building bridges from passivity to activity, preferably to an activity that ultimately provides the basis for its own income. And it's about social security systems that people can live on. But it's also about having a tax system that works redistributive. Statistics show that differences are increasing. But it is mainly because those with the highest income have received a significant increase in income in recent years, not because those who earn the least have suffered a severe decline in their income. We will continue to fight poverty, but we will also do our job in the distribution policy. Therefore, the improvements we make in the tax system in next year's budget are at home in the distribution and poverty debate. We are now removing the stock discount on property taxes and increasing the wealth tax on those with high taxable wealth and low general income. The value of housing is adjusted by 10 p.p., while the net asset tax is greatly increased, so that more persons with small assets escape this tax. The discount has increased from NOK 151 000 in 2005 to now, in 2008, to NOK 305000. For a married couple, who have received each of their deductions since 2006, the total deduction now amounts to NOK 700000. I even suppose that is well received in the civil parties, even though this is a tax they are in and in themselves against, but they were unable to give priority to removing when they were in government. So almost 400,000 fewer people pay taxes on wealth now compared to when the bourgeois government crashed. Half of these are pensioners. With this in mind, we have continued the work of the government parties starting right after the 2005 elections, by changing fiscal policies, so that the level was set at the 2004 level, but with a completely different distribution profile. Finally, I would like to mention an important improvement in next year's budget that I have not heard anyone mention during today's debate so far, and that is what we do for those who want to combine it to be self-employed with being a mother or a father. Now those who run their own company will also be entitled to maternity benefits and parental benefits from 1 July next year. In this way, it is better to allow self-employed people, both women and men, to combine economic activity and child care. It's good for the moms, it's good for the dads, and it's very good for the kids that we now have good maternity arrangements for the self-employed.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e146	When one listens to the debate here today, one hears that several call the budget and the posts of the red-greens for self-confidence, and some, as the representative Tybring-Gjedde, talk as if this is a budget that can almost lead to the destruction of the nation. I think the Prime Minister is right when he says that we never get there that there are no problems that have to be solved. We do not believe that, by presenting this budget, we have solved everything. We do not believe that there are any more challenges, but we believe that this budget further strengthens the fact that we have been given a new direction. We see the results of the government's policy, and we see the results of the government's work. We've said that we want to spend the big money on the big problems. We believe that we have shown that, and that we have. We will do that rather than give priority to tax relief and privatisation. We want to solve society's challenges together. In areas by region, the Government has invested in the community. The fight against climate noise is escalating. We are continuing a common welfare, health and education policy. We're going to spend about 4 billion dollars on increasing patient care and strengthening the hospital economy. We're going to spend $1 billion, or 940 million. kr, to complete the mental health escalation plan. Education in primary school is to be strengthened by five hours a week, and we are continuing the free fruit and green system that young people actually think is a good measure. The fact that the system of free secondary education materials is now extended to steps three is a great pleasure for many parents’ wallets. We are now on the way to achieving the goal of full child care coverage, as we increase the grant by NOK 2.7 billion. That's what I mean to call a new direction. We're not done yet, but we're doing well. One of the government's major areas of activity is development policy and human rights, and it's a historic promise we now see. The world is facing major environmental challenges, and too much of the world's population lives in poverty, distress and war. The Government has presented a sustainable development strategy as part of the budget. I think it is important that one sees the environment and assistance together. That's why I think it was a good idea to put the two areas under the same department, and that Erik Solheim gets responsibility for both areas. Now 14 new low-income countries will have the same duty-free and quota-free access to the Norwegian market as the least developed countries already have. In terms of environmental development work, we're increasing the investment in climate by 400 million. NOK, and we are increasing the aid budget up to 0.98 p.m. of GNI. To the Christian People's Party, I have to say that we have to deal with the rest. We need to increase aid to the poor countries and raise it to over 1 pst. of GNI during this four-year period. At the same time, we are building on the work of strengthening democracy and human rights. We Red-Green have emphasised a stronger link between the various foreign policy and development policy instruments in order to achieve the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration, which are ambitious but yet achievable. In the area of development, we have also chosen to give priority to the growth of the budget to five key lines, with Norway having a special advantage: peace building, human rights and humanitarian aid, good governance and institution building, including the fight against corruption, women and equality, climate and environment, and oil and energy. We have also increased our contributions to the UN, and Norway is thus one of the biggest donors in dollars and ears. We have reason to be proud of our contributions. But we should not rest on our laurels, but continue and strengthen our efforts. I was so lucky to be allowed to be four weeks in the U.N. this fall. It was fantastic to be there, and there was also something about putting both life and politics in a new perspective. The role of Norway in promoting the strengthening of the United Nations' work on gender equality was applauded. The fact that we're increasing UNIFEM, the women's fund, from 20 million. NOK 75 million. kr, be applauded. The fact that Norway has a high profile for strengthening gender equality in both the United Nations, the World Bank and regional development banks also gave them a huge boost. I hope we never get so full of ourselves that we're not able to see that there are people beyond our own borders who need us to do that duty and take the responsibility we have to lift others to something similar to ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e176	Today we are discussing the state budget for the next year and what visions, visions and goals we will have for the future. The starting point for the debate, and a fact, is this: over the next year, our capital stock placed and invested abroad will pass a total of NOK 2 500 billion, actually a pretty amazing starting point. We have incredible opportunities to solve the problems and challenges we have here in Norway. Despite having a huge fortune, and having had it for quite a while, it's scary which way it goes. In fact, you would think that we lived in a Communist state in many ways. It's a line, a line and a line all over the place. Then I don't talk about queues in the grocery stores, as we remember it was under Communism in the Soviet Union, our neighboring country in the east. No, fortunately, the food shops in Norway are not publicly run, but it seems that there are queues in most areas managed and operated by the public in Norway. We have a hospital queue, and the hospitals are due. After the red-greens took over, it has been about. 20 000 more patients waiting in a hospital queue, and now we have a total of 220,000 in a hospital queue. For example, it is even queue to get a simple eye operation that takes approx. Ten minutes. Sick children must wait in line for up to six months. We have queues in the care of the elderly, queues of older people who have to live under unworthy conditions. We have kindergarten queues despite the fact that this is the Minister of Finance's fight case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Even the criminals have to wait in line – queue for punishment. I can't believe it. We've got queues on the roads. The drivers must not wait in long queues to buy a car, as it was in the Communist era in the Soviet Union, but there are queues on the roads. It's a little funny that Sweden, our neighboring country, has a government debt of over DKK 1,200 billion, and they're investing a lot away, while Norway, with a fortune of almost SEK 2,500 billion, has countless deadly roads. If you want to buy a modern and safe car first, it has to really sweat on your wallet, which has resulted in that we have some of the oldest cars in Europe on the roads, in line with Albania, a country that we don't compare so much with. Otherwise, many of the new cars that are in Albania are actually stolen in Norway, but that is a completely different matter. At the same time, the red-greens have a line of suggestions to set up even more toll stations to take even more money from the drivers. Only this year are 14 new toll stations set up. Why? Because we don't have money? We have queues in Norwegian school, lack of space in schools, and the schools are falling out. My question is, where are the big visions? Where are the views? What are our goals? We have the money, and we can change Norway. Norway should be the country with the best hospitals, with some of the world’s most high-tech equipment, and with highly trained health professionals with long professional experience. When you have complicated operations here in Norway that you do not know exactly how to do, you send them to the United States. Why couldn't it be the other way around that the U.S. sent its patients to Norway because we had the best hospitals? Shouldn't Norway also be that country in the world with the least crime, with the highest rate of detection for crimes, and that it was the Norwegian police that had the world's most modern equipment and the safest cars? Norway is also a prerequisite for having the world's best schools and the world's best universities. Why is it that most countries choose to send students to the United States and England? Why is it not that everyone sends their students to Norway? It's actually a cross of thought that there's free education in Norway, and that you send out students anyway, and that they themselves want to study in England or the United States, where it costs hundreds of thousands of dollars. Norway could have the world's most modern roads. This would have led to fewer fatal accidents, and to growth in business. Norway could have been the world’s most entrepreneurial country. But no, in fact it is the small country in the east, Estonia – which was one of the poorest countries in Europe for about. 15 years ago — which has now been assigned to one of the world’s most entrepreneurial countries. Unfortunately, the red-greens do not seem to be able to remove the cows. On the contrary, the queues are increasing with red-green policies. I read a little on Nettavisen instead and have a bad news from there. The red-greens have constantly boasted that we are one of the world's best countries to live in. We're not that anymore, we're falling in the second place. It's the small country in the west, Iceland, which is now the world's best country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e206	I'm going to start with something as original as the international food situation in this article on the financial debate. In the last six months, we have seen that food prices have risen significantly internationally. On cereals it is 70-80 pst. in the last six months. Milk products have followed, and it's interesting for us to ask ourselves why this happens, and what it leads to. The main reason for this is increased demand. We become more people who need food, and not least we are more rich people who eat differently than before. More milk and more meat instead of vegetables and rice mean that consumption is increasing significantly. In addition, we have seen that the food soil has had an alternative use. Energy is now produced on large agricultural land around the world. Not least, we see an energy price that forms a floor in international food prices, because in some cases it pays to burn grain instead of oil. It's a big growth. Only what happens to increasing cereal consumption in the world is equivalent to thirty times Norwegian production. That this is a situation that is going to last, confronts us as a nation with some key challenges. I think it's basically good for the rural and agricultural population around the world, because the revenue is rising. But there are also some dilemmas here, not least ethical. Firstly, food safety and food supply for biofuels and energy supply are taken into account. Secondly, you have to consider how to ensure enough food for those who have the least, in a situation where prices go up. At least I'm sure we've been jumping over the debate on the supply of bioenergy, because we've almost unilaterally said that this is a good thing without problemating any of the dilemmas that lie in it. For Norway, at least it underlines a point that we want to have a need for our own national food production in time to come. It's not certain that the envelope that Hegnar has sung in the last twenty years, that we can only make others do the work for us much more reasonable, is going to be the fasit in the future. It's not certain that someone will do it. It also has an important safety perspective, simply because we depend on national production. That is why I am pleased that we have a government that emphasises these considerations also in budgetary and agricultural policy, and at least when you look at what the opposition is doing in its proposals for a government budget. That's where you kiss a lot. From the edge of the Progress Party, it's a clean era, and the Right has taken what they feel they have to take, to show that they can spend a little less money than what the Government is doing in total. In any case, I am of the opinion that the Norwegian budgetary policy in this area and the Norwegian agricultural policy will belong to the future, and not to the past, as many would have us believe. This also applies in relation to the decisive rounds we are going to enter into in relation to the WTO negotiations. The environment and climate are another crucial challenge for this nation and for the world in time to come. Here we are going to take this offensively, as a big deal, as a government and as a nation, and not least make sure that we have a business in front of us. This is a new comparative advantage for Norway, and fortunately in many fields we also have a good story to show. As far as the oil industry is concerned, and when you look at how much oil and gas you produce with so little emissions, this is the result of demands being made while the industry has been given the opportunity to develop. There are also many examples of this in the process industry. It's a development that we're going to continue. Our job is to create a framework that allows business to evolve in a way that we want. The CO2 quota system and the green tax exchange initiated by the Government are good examples of this. The NOx tax that has been debated is also a good example. It is important for us to say that this is not to take in as much money as possible, but to get the best possible result as reasonably possible. We are therefore very pleased that the negotiations are now going well, and we also regard this fund solution as a possible solution to other challenges in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e231	With an upturn that lacks parallel, and a freedom of action that hardly any government has ever had before, this government is unable to give priority to the future. With increased revenues of SEK 130 billion since the red-greens came in position, there should be only blue sky and rose-red conditions in Norway currently. The challenges are emerging across many areas. Knowledge, education and research are the source of progress in a globalised and competitive world. Right will go away from the suspended government initiated last year. Right is over SEK 1.2 billion more on knowledge and research than the Government in its alternative budget. In higher education and research, the government's ceasefire begins to make a serious decision. Akademia is going back to action. Students and management at the University of Oslo and the country have also said clearly about the threat to this government's offer of study. The cutting of rest has led to the predicted ground support. The right shows how the damage can be repaired, but the majority seems determined to be stuck on the cutting. The cut in basic appropriations from last year is not corrected by the majority, but it does the right by 278 million. kr. Norway is unable to cope with a situation where job stops and announced cuts in the operating budgets make deep cuts in the quality of the study offer at several institutions. The many calls for this to be serious should also have given the majority a better idea. Twenty million. kr more in basic appropriations, to which the red-green majority is added, is approximately. one third of the cut that the University of Oslo had to carry last year alone, which is continued this year. This marginal addition shall include, inter alia: go to the guidance of the 350 scholarship positions proposed by the Government. However, good guidance at this level requires a tutoring density that is slightly above the teacher's density in a full lecture hall. Roofing and water collection in buckets of indoor and scientific equipment from the 1950s is not exactly a ‘higher’ in terms of competitiveness and attractiveness of future talents, but it is the reality of Norwegian higher education in 2007. The images of maturity and lack of maintenance have been many in the autumn. It doesn't seem to impress the majority, but it does affect us. 50 million. kr extra for maintenance, as proposed by the Right, is a start, but is far from sufficient. This is a challenge that will require willingness to prioritize in the future. Scientific equipment is an important competitive factor in attracting the talents. Without being able to offer laboratories and equipment that are perceived as modern and up-to-date, disabled people are provided for the purpose of recruiting scientific personnel. Right, you put your weight on it and you put 50 million. kr also in this area. The right is proposing a strong strengthening of the research fund by DKK 20 billion in addition to the Government's proposal, i.e. EUR 1 billion more to be researched in 2009. The Research Fund shall provide predictability and a strategic instrument for the Research Council. Strengthening the Fund is an important element in achieving the national target of 3 pst. of GDP for research. The government has largely made available the return of the fund to depreciate the regular appropriations for research. This government has introduced a new way of disposing of the fund return, which is contrary to assumptions and which weakens the fund as a mechanism for securing long-term money research. Thus, the Government does not find new money for research in the annual budgets. Together with a real reduction in the appropriations allocated to the Research Council, this cannot be seen as anything but a violation of the Research Council and a breach of the Fund's intentions. There is no reason for such a strategy on the right. Rather, the Research Council’s strategies appear to be clear, strategically based and well-considered and successful towards business. So the right-hand side suggests 110 million. kr in increased appropriations for the Research Council. Increased appropriations resulting from the 7th EU Framework Programme are the only real growth area in the Government’s research budget. Integration and cooperation with Europe in the field of research are important and positive, but when it is not followed by a similar offensive effort in Norwegian research, we become very vulnerable. We then rely on EU priorities to match our own, in order for Norwegian research communities and Norwegian companies to find the necessary funding for their projects. This government doesn't have the ability to focus on future prospects. It sweeps away the enormous freedom of action a fantastic boom should give us. It's times like these that we need to be able to invest in the future. Knowledge, education and research are the way into the future. The government budget shows that it has not understood it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e252	It was supposed to be a visit to my co-representative on the Financial Committee, but it might as well go to the representative Gundersen. In particular, the representative of Jørund Rytmans, who was more than 5 minutes away from the country, said that Norway is now in second place on the United Nations list of the best countries to live in, is simply not a believer. It was incredible to hear – a fantastic description of reality, in which I think very few are familiar, in which Norway is almost described as an old Eastern bloc during the Stalin era and so on. But that's not what I was going to talk about. I believe that something quite fundamental has happened in Norway and the world in a very short time, and that is the understanding that the climate crisis we are facing is far more serious than what we have believed in now. In just a few years, we have been in a situation where the parties in Norway are almost fighting about who has the best policy to meet the challenges. Who would have thought a few years ago that, for example, the largest opposition party, the Progress Party, led by those who call this man-made climate change, would now present almost large packages of how to meet the CO2 challenges and that the bourgeois parties would now feel that they are far more offensive in climate policy than the red-green government. It's amazing! It's exciting to hear, but at the same time it's facing us many challenges. We see it in the world, too. For the first time, what we have to assume is a climate uprising in a large western country, Australia, where the incumbent bourgeois government was cast in favour of a workers' party-driven opposition, which seriously put the climate challenges on the map in Australia. We also see it in the financial sector, the size of institutional investors now joining forces, with billions of dollars in their backs pushing companies to take the climate challenges seriously on the basis of an environmental justification, but also on the basis of a risky justification as to what will be financial right in the coming years. Those companies that do not have a strategy to meet the climate challenges are simply being priced out, because the risk becomes too high. In Norway, through the state budget we are about to adopt later, we have presented a package of 24,6 billion kroner in total for climate and environmental action. It's not far enough to solve the challenges tomorrow, but it's the jam a good start. In addition to the appropriations for CO2 management, energy conversion and environmentally friendly transport, we also have a clear turn to what we call green taxes and taxes for the first time. That's something we've all agreed on, and we've been talking about for years. Now we see for the first time at least a dawning start on how to do this. There is no doubt that if we in Norway and the rest of the Western world are to maintain our standard of living – our way of living our lives – we need to have economic growth in the future that is green and that is sustainable. That's why we, for example. has proposed to increase the base rate of fuel oil quite sharply. We have increased the CO2 tax on aviation fuel, we have increased the diesel tax, and for the environmental benefits of cars, we have increased the annual tax. The most striking thing about everything – and that is me, a tax-policy spokesman in the Workers' Party, whom I have been given the honour of being given the title, is that there are almost no reactions among the population or business as regards what we could say at least a few years ago as a tough thank-you to the climate debate. As I said, there are small reactions to this in the opinion. This may mean that we can go even further next year, be tougher about the measures, and meet the challenges we want to address. Perhaps we will also see that the largest opposition party, the Progress Party, will realize that they have a very bad case by not taking this challenge seriously. Finally, I would like to make a small challenge: from the representatives of the Progress Party, we are still told that they are very close to the Workers' Party, or that they fully agree with the Workers' Party, in climate policy. What, then, is the reason why they do not support one of the proposals we are making on green tax exchange in the form of pricing the carbon intensity – which is now popular to call them – the modes of transport and other types of action are harder tax and taxing, and the other measures that are more environmentally friendly and climate friendly, lower? That's what we're doing, and that's what we're going to do in the coming years. This is the first small step towards taking the climate challenges seriously in Norway as well. This budget seems to me to meet these challenges in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e280	We live in a learning economy where knowledge is considered the most important resource, and learning as the most important process. In other words, natural resources and low production costs are no longer the main source of competitive advantage, but the ability to produce and reproduce knowledge. Norway as a nation is dependent on both knowledge and learning processes. Knowledge has limited value if it is only at the top of the individual’s head. It is only highly valued when used in interaction with others, in order to increase value creation in Norway. But if we're going to increase value creation in Norway, this depends on our being able to achieve the best in every human being, and here our education system has a very important task. All people are unique, and therefore we need an education system that is capable of taking this into account. We want each student to be seen, and we know that mastering and self-confidence are important pieces to succeed in a school day. For the Progress Party, it is important that each student be trained according to their abilities and needs. Only if a student builds up its competitive advantage can we later ensure that this person’s contribution to the national value creation is maximum. The Progress Party therefore proposes to set aside 50 million in the budget. for schools with special needs – for the blind and partially sighted and for dyslexia students – in order to ensure that these receive adapted training. It is also important to ensure that pupils have a good learning environment, and this is linked to education and the state of school buildings. The government has not complied with either the state of school buildings or measures for a better learning environment. The Progress Party proposes to earmark 68 million. for the further training of teachers, with particular emphasis on class management training, so that they are better able to combat unrest and strife in education and create a better learning environment. We know that unrest and strife are a major problem in school today, and we will come back to it later in a representative proposal. In addition, we propose to extend the interest compensation scheme for school buildings by DKK 1 billion to ensure that school buildings are upgraded so that our students get a better working environment. In fact, there are children today who spend much of their primary education in poor vomit, without the most elementary being present. In fact, it is unworthy of a rich country like Norway. The area where the government is most disappointed is the area of higher education and research, which was also the representative of Gundersen. According to the opinion of the Progress Party, the government is both irresponsible and not least short-term in these two areas. If we are to be able to compete on knowledge in the future, it is imperative that we have world-class higher education institutions, and a research policy that encourages research, where we can achieve the goal of 3 pst. of gross national product by 2010. However, with the pace of the government's making it up to now, we will not be able to achieve that goal. The government's severance in higher education is one of the Government's greatest losers. The cuts in higher education in this year’s budget have led to cuts in the education provision for students at higher education institutions and universities. The Progress Party considers it totally irresponsible that the Government does not increase their appropriations to compensate for the cuts in the year's budget. We are therefore proposing to increase the appropriations for higher education and universities by over 500 million. kr in 2008. More scholarships and equal treatment of universities are important to us. In addition, it is an objective that the research fund should contain DKK 100 billion during 2010, but unfortunately the government is unable to set aside more than DKK 6 billion to increase the fund's capital. In the opinion of the Progress Party, this is extremely defensive. We are therefore proposing to transfer an additional 34 billion kroner to the research fund. We also think it is petty for the government not to be able to grant start-up funds for an aviation training course, when we know that both the defense and Avinor will already cover approx. 50 pst. of the study places. Now we're at risk for other countries to run off with the offer, and for the UiA to lose an attractive international educational area. The Progress Party has prioritised funds for starting up this budget. The Party's educational policy is offensive and focuses on knowledge and learning. The Progress Party is concerned with future value creation, and therefore we are increasing funding for education and research. This is responsible, as opposed to what the Government has done. They have failed the field of education in order to carry out their pediatric activities. Nearly a generation of children will then fall between two chairs. Where the government is thinking of drawing its voters in the short term, we think in the Progress Party in the long term and of Norway's competitiveness in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e307	Since our government joined, the number of unemployed has been halved from 80,000 to 40,000. Little is as effective in combating poverty as getting a person who has previously lived on social welfare into paid work. Of course, it gives higher income and thus less economic problems, but it is equally important that participation in the labour market gives stronger social ties to other people, and for many more meaning in life. It simply gives you better quality of life. An additional bonus, which pleases all of us, is that this also means significantly lower public spending, giving greater room to solve other important challenges in the short and long term. A halving of unemployment is a result of several measures by this government to combat poverty. This may be the most important contribution. In today’s debate, several have been engaged in action to increase the supply of work. That's good. Since our government joined, the number of people working has increased by 155 000. Never before have so many been in employment in Norway. In comparison, between 2001 and 2005, the number of drugrelated deaths increased roughly by about one percentage point between 2005 and 2005. 11,000 persons. This situation presents us with some challenges, particularly those related to bottlenecks in the economy, but it is also an outstanding opportunity to get even more out of work because of those who, for various reasons, have the most difficulty getting a job: immigrants, disabled people, the elderly and others who, for different reasons, are not first in the job-seeker's queue. And we see that it works. We see that immigrant leave goes down. The proportion of older people in work is increasing strongly. At the same time, we need to be aware that this group probably needs more extensive support to get to work. This is precisely why it is so important for public authorities to keep the level of labour market measures up. We are pleased that the opposition is busy getting more people to work, but it surprises me that they choose to finance their alternative budgets by cutting labour market measures. That's now we have the opportunity to get this group to work. Cutbacks make us less able to take advantage of this opportunity. It's a bad social economy, it's a bad business policy, and it's a terrible poverty policy. Another important area of high priority for the red-green government is aid and development policy. Norwegian development policy shall be not only development but also an integral part of Norwegian foreign and trade policy. The government’s focus on good governance and democratic development is therefore important to contribute to the development of a good distribution policy in each country where we contribute development funds. An active focus on good distribution policies also helps to combat the extreme poverty we see in parts of the world today, and helps to meet the challenges Norway faces as part of the UN to meet its Millennium Goals. We have already passed the semi-mark by 2015. Poverty in the world is going to be halved, and then it's important that we put money behind words and contribute to action in both government and big business. Let's do that now, for example. by increasing the share of GNI used for development purposes to 0,98 pst. In the Soria Moria statement, the red-greens have said that our goal is to get up to at least 1 pst. That GNI, and there we are on the right track. When Norway takes a special responsibility to contribute to the health-related thousand-year targets, it means a commitment to children and young people and to the rights of young people and with it a commitment to the future. We should contribute to joint efforts to combat infant and maternal mortality and to combat AIDS and other infectious diseases, which are now increasingly affecting women and children. We must continue with the efforts of the red-green government that have shown the importance of, and that need to be done in order to achieve development and redistribution. It is not done by cutting, as both the Right and the Advance Party go into their alternative budgets. We still hear that it is difficult to see differences between politicians in Norway. For anyone who wants to, I think it's quite possible to see the difference. It's possible to see what different ambitions the parties have expressed here today. At the same time, the parties with the least ambitions to help the world's poorest have the greatest ambitions for tax relief to well-born Northmen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e322	The best investment for a good future is to ensure good growth conditions for children and young people. The Christian People's Party has always been committed to facilitating that parents have a real opportunity to choose work inside or outside the home while the children are young. We want to give families the freedom to puzzle together the everyday life as you want, and as it suits the individual family best. Not all fit into defined A4 solutions. The Christian People's Party's alternative is a combination of good schemes, where we both bet more on kindergarten than the Government and in addition increase cash support so that it becomes as large as before the Red-Green Government joined. The Christian People's Party will smooth out more of the difference between private and public kindergartens. In addition, we want to ensure the quality and suggest 10 million. in addition to the Government's proposals for the enhancement of competences and recruitment of pre-school teachers. We are also promoting proposals for a comprehensive report on quality in kindergartens. After the State Council Solhjell has taken over the State Council chair, I have seen statements that make me expect that we will now receive support from the government parties in this matter. The Christian People's Party wants a child-friendly and family-friendly society in which we facilitate to have children in different stages of life. That's why we're increasing the one-time benefit by birth and adoption in our budget. Equality requires both women and men to participate in domestic care. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes that all fathers be entitled to a father's quota regardless of their mother's professional participation before birth, and that the father's quota be increased by one week to seven weeks. Representatives from the Government are seeking to avoid increased efforts at parental leave by now arranging for forcible parts without giving additional weeks to their parents. Safety and time are important for children’s growing-up conditions. With our alternative budget, we strengthen the family as the most important community of children, while preserving the children who need child protection as a co-player in order to have a safe upbringing. This is about the most vulnerable children. A proper and good family policy also depends on a strong and good school. When working together at home and at school, it provides the best conditions for the learning environment of students. I think there is a need to invest more to strengthen this cooperation. We know that there are huge differences between schools in how well you make this work. Is it actually automatic in that several hours at school will provide increased quality? Parties on both the right and left sides of Norwegian policy have found each other in the answer to this question. They claim that the early school stage takes several hours. This should be the solution to most of the school's challenges, it seems. The Christian People's Party believes it's much more important to look at the hours we already have than uncritically to spend hundreds of millions of dollars popping in more of the same. We believe the government's priorities are wrong when it introduces five more hours a week to the youngest children. That's why we want to re-prioritize this and get more teachers into the hours. The rate of drop-out in secondary education remains serious. Unfortunately, the government is putting in few measures to reduce it. The Christian People's Party is taking the problem seriously and is now proposing a new measure item of 25 million. kr for the use of municipalities and counties to enable them to take good action to reduce this. Several school buildings are currently in very poor condition, and we are surprised to note that the Government does not want to continue the very successful interest compensation scheme, which would provide a better learning situation and a better everyday life for both teachers and students. There is no doubt that the government's draft budget is also a very poor budget for higher education and research. I note, as many have done today in this Chamber, that the Government is continuing to do so. The Christian People's Party is fixing up the cut and increasing the allocation of research, and it should just be missing, with the rise times we're now in. We must use the opportunity to invest in both school, higher education and research. Finally, today there are many churches that are struggling with lack of priests and with churches that are decaying. The government is completely lacking in commitment to a good church budget. It is incomprehensible that the Government does not continue to invest in the new interest-rate compensation scheme that has worked so well — and, in addition, the General Councils are losing out on important resources in order to achieve a good and active community life throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e355	In last year's financial debate, I started by saying that the fight against poverty continues. I'll start with that this year. It's not random, because it's about fulfilling one of the most important promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. The majority started the period of increased efforts to tackle poverty by over half a billion dollars. This year we increased by 700 million. NOK plus. Next year the government is proposing a new 336 million. kr, and the level is then DKK 1.6 billion above the last poverty proposal of the previous government. In Stortinget is now another 55 million. kr added by the majority – 30 million. DKK to improve housing support and housing for people from prison, 25 million. to further strengthen the drug field in the municipalities and new places at the Tyrili. On this background, it was strange to hear the opposition's performance when the state budget was presented. Right thought the government's fight against poverty was a solid bluff. In the budget setting, the Right writes that the Government is depriving measures against poverty. In relation to what? At least it cannot be in relation to the previous government's investment, because it was significantly lower. On the website of the Progress Party, we can read that the Council of State is failing the sick, that the Government is failing the disabled. In this setting, the Progress Party claims that the Government's poverty effort has proved to be very poor. Even the new reductions in taxes and charges are their main response to poverty, as well as severe cuts in disability, daily allowances, sick pay, employment and welfare rates, labour market measures, social benefits for people over 67 years of age, cuts in qualification programmes, rehabilitation payments, waiting wages and, as the crown of the work, a strong tightening of the right to disability pensions for both new and existing disability pensioners. The Christian People's Party was early out there and produced the Government's proposal to increase the poverty rate as a halve of last year's efforts, and forgot skillfully to mention that next year's increase comes at the top of a total increase both in 2006 and 2007 – and plus and plus does not give negative. The strengthening of the action plan on integration and inclusion, which is also part of poverty reduction, was also forgotten. In the budgetary remarks, the Christian People's Party says that the government's efforts against poverty are greater in words than in action. How, then, will the Christian People’s Party characterize its self - government commitment to poverty? Perhaps that's how Bondevik himself said it in the Evening Post and VG in August 2005? “We should have done more for the poor.” “I’m self-criticising that we haven’t gotten far enough in this field.” The left is satisfied with the Government's commitment to poverty on a global basis, but disappointed by the efforts made at home. If I don't remember completely wrong, the Left was also a member of the previous government – so how much was the disappointment of your own government significantly lower efforts against poverty then, when one is so disappointed by this government now? The previous government's tax law policy, as we know, gave more poor people. In spite of this, both the Right Party, but most prominently the Progress Party, continues its mantra for tax relief as an important instrument in combating poverty. Understand the one who can. Moreover, during the previous period, the majority of today’s people were voted upon by many of the measures that are now part of the majority’s efforts to get people to work. In 2008, we're going to spend almost half a billion more on getting people to work. 150,000 more are at work. Nevertheless, the level of intervention is maintained, despite reduced leave and fewer people with reduced employment. We have an action guarantee for the long-term unemployed and young people under the age of 25. Rigid distinctions between types of measures are removed. Instead, we see people with or without the need for assistance. Qualification programmes open up all measures for those who have so far been outside everything and pay subsidies for disabled people become nationwide. The use of an organisation guarantee in the workplace is increasing. Simplification of social security systems and individual correction of measures are underway. The NAV reform is moving forward. The action plan against social dumping is implemented. In 2008, 68 million went. kr more for poor children and over DKK 1 billion more for better living conditions for disadvantaged people. The IA agreement has been renegotiated. Reinforcement of the sick report effort, new 700 million. kr comes to the purchase of rehabilitation services. The Psychiatric Plan continues with nearly $1 billion. In short, today's majority said one thing in opposition and follows up in position. Today's minorities now say one thing in opposition, but they did something else in position. There is a sea of difference — both in practice and in credibility. However, the Progress Party takes the price in irresponsibleness. Significantly, they have chosen to illustrate their alternative budget with a magnificent picture of an oil platform in the sunset. Should your arrangements with large tax havens and unimpeded use of oil money ever get a majority in this room, we can risk that sunset coming faster than we know.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e389	I can trust the previous speaker that the Right at all is not disappointed by the red-green government in the field of poverty policy. It's simply a complete impossibility to be disappointed with someone you don't have any expectations at all. But the continuous array of undocumented claims made by the representative Lise Christoffersen seems to me to fall on his own unfairness. In the 2005 election campaign, today’s government parties played a highly rhetorical role in the challenges we face in the work on poverty in Norway. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen – that's a shame she's not here now – accused of our cooperation government too little. Yes, she did not spare the powder when it came to what was needed to eradicate poverty in Norway. It could be done with a pen stroke. And not enough: here it was just political will that was going to happen. All the beautiful promises from the red-green parties were accompanied by the worn-out oral cavity: Community instead of tax havens for those who have the most from before. It might seem that reality has caught up with the government parties, at least some of them. We should be happy about that, because the task of lifting people out of poverty is too important to reduce them to a rhetorical game. Poverty policy must be targeted and must also be prioritised over time if it is to have an impact. That is precisely why our government, as the first ever, launched an action plan against poverty – a targeted poverty response in our government period, where we introduced SEK 4.9 billion in our budgets from 2001 to 2006 to concrete measures to lift people out of poverty, and to treat and prevent drug abuse. Today’s government, through creative accounting in the 2007 budget with its budget, has raised slightly over DKK 1 billion. The rhetoric from the election campaign is not at all in line with the priorities set by the red-green government. It is quite alarming when we know that the government in 2008 has approx. 130 billion kroner more available than the Bondevik II government had in 2005. Therefore, there are probably many others who are very, very disappointed by what the red-green government has done – or rather not done – in poverty policy, because the expectations they themselves created were enormous. In its alternative budgets, the right has spent the last two years on a more comprehensive and targeted poverty response than the Government. Through targeted use of measures, we have found room for strengthening measures such as ‘Turn in the door’, which would give young people a new chance of social assistance, and projects such as ‘Indoor on the tune’, which would give drug users and people with a weak working relationship a valuable daily offer. By strengthening the budget for children and young people in big cities, the alternative scheme of the Right would ensure that those from disadvantaged families also received a leisure offer, instead of being recruited to environments with drugs and crime. And with a strong commitment to the drug field in terms of both rehabilitation and action against the children of addicts, the Right would ensure that more disadvantaged would be lifted out of poverty. Perhaps the most targeted response to the poor is to strengthen the security around houses and homes. Today, many of those outside the labour market experience difficulties in obtaining this security because the criteria for housing support in the Husbank have excluded support for, for example: private rental dwellings. The Bondevik II Government made improvements to the housing support scheme every year during its reign. This process ended with today's government. In our alternative scheme for 2008, we have found room to remove some of the constraints of the housing support scheme at a total cost of 75 million. kr. This is another concrete proposal to tailor the housing support system so that those who need it most can be helped best. The right will therefore follow up the housing aid scheme in future budgets. In addition to that, we're going to continue to raise $15 million. kr to the measure ‘Towards owner-occupied dwellings’, a measure that the Government has chosen to remove for unexplained reasons. In the debate on the revised 2007 national budget, i.e. just a few months ago, representatives from the SV and the Central Party came with praise to the Right for our poverty response. They even signaled a desire to cooperate on poverty policy in future budgets. It was nice. Therefore, it is sad to note that this was a word completely without content. This cooperation has not been possible during the budget procedure of the harvest. Here, the government has trodden through its budget arrangement with a similar code of cad values to its own clusters, which are whipped in place in a group of herds. Yomme I said co-operation!
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e404	Since we're in the international action week about violence against women, I want to take that as a starting point. While we're sitting here, it's good, discussing quite as much wealth and, I also have to say – with all due respect – great well-being, a third of the world's women are affected by comparatively gross violence quite often. Only here in Norway are we talking about 10 pst. by women — 1 000 women per week and 2000 children per week. This not only forces us to discuss the question of how much money we are going to spend, but how we are going to spend them. I am convinced that we need a policy that sees more – a policy that creates closer social ties to get an eye on these children and these women, a policy that sees the value of giving priority to tax havens to those who have the most from before, and that we actually get to strengthen the social arenas where we can get an eye on them, whether in school, in kindergarten, in child protection or, for that matter, that we are able to enable the municipalities to pursue a welfare policy, a youth policy that counts, a child policy that discovers. If we don't, I'm afraid the repair costs will be great. In view of this, I think that the government's arrangement not only for the economy of next year, but also in what we've seen in these two years, just speaks for wanting more social arenas with a density that helps us discover. We're going to do this together using all the measures to be put in place when things have happened. I am in this way happy to be a participant in a government that in this year takes a power cap and a lift to detect, solve and repair more of the damage we see when criminal acts are committed, whether there is violence in close relations or it is the violence or crime that is taking place in other arenas: nearly SEK 1.9 billion for investment and operations, which will also make the reaction chain closer. Earlier in the debate one has been concerned about cows, I have heard, and at least I can comfort those representatives of the Progress Party who are concerned that the cows are not going the right way: it is cows that are going the right way, in the sense that they are now building up the cows in front of Norwegian prisons and spending large amounts of money to build new prisons, so that we can also get content and not just quantity. A new link is being developed for the police, which will cost more than NOK 3 billion. We'll start with it for next year. We're starting a DNA reform that is going to clarify several of the criminal acts, including the privacy constraints that, among other things. is about rape, which will cost a lot, but which is an important investment. We're also betting in other parts of the justice sector, as I think there's reason to mention. When I mention this, it is for the purpose that we have to admit that we are not able to repair ourselves out of the problems we see are difficult. With regard to the violence that affects women and children, we are totally dependent on focusing on what prevents. This also applies to the rest of the crime scene. In this way, I am pleased that the Progress Party does not seem to receive significant support for the drastic cuts made in other areas – which would contribute to a strong increase in Norwegian crime – either by the Right, the Christian People's Party or the Left. I'm glad. But there's a reason to mention it, because you're going to cut the customs tariff drastically. You cut over 200 million. kr, which is important in resolving and detecting more of cross-border crime. It would be sad if we were to put down a lot of the activity that is now taking place under customs control, both in terms of organised crime and in terms of drug crime. I would like to point out with regard to the economic crime in Norway: it would be sad if the Progress Party were to get the majority to cut over 400 million. kr in the tax haven's ability to go into economic crime, which in many ways would put us far back in taking some of the things that are very serious crime. I also mentioned the cut in the alcohol charge, which would contribute to an increase in total consumption, and which would again turn on, among other things. The violence situation in large and small cities, which would help us to need far more police and prison places than the Progress Party itself has in its alternative budgets. Finally, I will also mention the large cut of over 600 million. on integration, which would put us back a long way in terms of the work that is now being done, in order to avoid new compatriots committing criminal acts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e421	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e424	You have to listen to wisdom when it comes from the heart, and I see that it does when the council speaks. A person who to those degrees has redefined the problem areas from when he was an opposition politician, to now when he's a position politician, you should look for a long time, and in this way he represents something unique, possibly. There are other matters under consideration in the budget. From one of the propositions that the Council of State has made, I want to include a quote. That's what it says. ‘the State’s responsibility to prevent ‘violence crimes’ is in a special position in relation to other harmful acts’. ‘These crimes represent a direct threat to people’s lives and health, thereby violating the most fundamental rights of our society.’ Governments have been talking about brutal violence against women. The councils have talked about it being time to get hold of it and do something about it. How, then, can the Council of State be satisfied on its own behalf when you have an ambition for a 38-percent clearance? This government believes that you have to live with six out of ten crimes not being solved. I do not think that is in line with what the Council of State is doing for the other forefects.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e436	The government is very concerned that the crime of violence in Norway is going down. The prevention of violent crime, whether in close relations or in the streets, is certainly important. We also have to measure that from completely different scales than the percentage of clearance. The crime being prevented never comes into police statistics, so the most important thing we can do is actually to prevent. I pointed to one thing in my article. One of the clearest links between violence both at home and in the streets, and in other social contexts, is alcohol consumption. It is striking, therefore, that it is the Progress Party that now perhaps contributes – and still proposes – to dismantle the measures that contribute to the fact that we have relatively low levels of violent crime in Norway. I can promise the representative Ellings that the government will continue to have an active focus on curbing violence, whether in the street or at home, with both police and prevention tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e443	At the beginning of November, the Justice Committee met with the police chief in Oslo. He then informed me that the 2008 budget means that he must have 110 posts standing unsolicited all year next year. At the same time, there is little doubt that Oslo has a very demanding crime scene, and tonight it is shocking to hear again about a new assault in Oslo. Nevertheless, the evening post yesterday had a look-up with the Council of State, where he says he won't give more money to the Oslo police, and points out that the police district is running organisational development and needs to make better use of its resources. We can all agree on that, but it is clear that the world is showing up quite differently in the high-block in the government quarter than in the police house in Greenland. My questions to the Council of State are: Does the Minister of Justice seriously believe that wages of 110 unoccupied jobs in Oslo are to be found within today's budget? If the answer is no – when will the Oslo police get enough budget to pay all the positions they have in their plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e452	I must ask the representative Aspaker to read the whole article and what I have said to the evening post. I have said that a prerequisite to give more money to the police – not only Oslo, but also elsewhere – is that you actually look at how you organize, and that you get the most out of the dollars you have. I also believe that the representatives of the Right agree with such reasoning – I hope so. We're totally dependent on it. When the government has decided to grant more money to the police – nearly half a billion dollars during these almost three years of our responsibility, both to the police and prosecution authorities – it is precisely because we believe that the police should be strengthened. But we can't get more policemen out in the streets if we don't take organisational action at the same time. It was the representative of Aspaker who was very eager when she wanted us to take action when it came to seniors, and when it came to the question of whether those working on civil matters were going out on the streets. So I'm a little surprised that now, just a few weeks after we had that debate in Stortinget, you no longer agree that you also have to grab hold of the addition of money.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e460	First, on behalf of the Left, let me say that the Council of State and the Left agree with the efforts to combat violence against women. It's very important. Then I will go directly to Oslo and start with the obvious: every police district has to deliver well. Everyone in this room knows that we've got new working and rest arrangements. They are introduced in full. They beat into every turn, and police professions a tour trade. Some of the results are that there are too few policemen in the street. The council and I witnessed a story around it, which I think shook us both last Friday, at Blue, where the sellers of =Oslo told us about how they had been herded with by the guards, even knocked up. At the same time, there was a very strong tribute from the police at that meeting. There was great confidence in safe and good policemen. Therefore, my questions become to the Council of State: what will he do to ensure that we get more policemen out there, so that there is high status in the police to be out there with people? Is it an alternative to put in civil positions that can relieve the police also in Oslo, so that they can be out there among people and ensure them the security that the Council of State and I heard about at the meeting that we had in common last Friday?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e469	I think almost above the table can answer yes to the representative Dørum's question as to whether it is relevant to insert more civilians. That is precisely what we are now looking at in the request that has gone to, among other things, Oslo Police District to get more police officers out. At the same time, I believe it is essential to look at the tools in this process as well, and, to the extent, the prerequisites of the police officers who will be involved in more active police work, so that it is actually rewarded, and that it is given the status that such work should have. While we're doing this, it's definitely important that we get a continuous high-level admission to the Police College, so that in future we avoid the situation we're in now, where we actually see that the low-level admission that was in the Police College in 2002, 2003 and 2004, when there were others with the government force, hit us to the point that we have to look for this kind of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e476	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e479	The government has submitted its government budget at a time when the country has so much surplus on the state budget as it has never had before in history. Nor is it possible to get away from the fact that this again creates great expectations in the population, and also in the light of the fact that we have behind us a municipal election campaign where the promises were relatively solved in a number of areas. In my article, I want to focus on health issues and health issues, especially those related to the challenges and problems facing you. It is not possible to get away from the fact that very many promises are now expected to be fulfilled in the area of health and care. Has it been achieved in these areas for which the population has such high expectations? At a time when the country has such a solid economy as it's never had before, we're now putting a record in prostheses in health care. Never before have the excesses been proposed by the Government in its budget approach. This applies both to self-employment I and to specialities related to medical visits. This puts the Government in a strange light, all the time it went to fight and elections to combat poverty, to cushion social health inequalities and, as the Soria Moria Declaration states, to ‘reduce the excesses of health services and keep them at a low level’. In one area, government policy has really worked out, and it is making it more difficult for private health services to be provided to the general public, so that it is not just an offer for those with a lot of money. We now see the outcome of this policy: one has reduced the scope of contracts with private hospitals, and health care queues are now increasing significantly. Only in recent years has the number of waiting lists to receive specialist healthcare treatment increased by more than 20,000 people. In addition to this, we have a situation where the country's hospital is in a constant phase of conversion, where decisions now seem to be taken from where we can save the most. So we lose the most important focus, which in health care always has to be to think about how we can help to do it even better for our patients. This is not a wild development by a highly dedicated staff in our many areas of excellent health care, especially for the majority of those treated there, but something that is imposed on us to balance the economy. This balance sheet requirement has to be seen in the context of the government claiming that new fresh DKK 1.79 billion will be added to health businesses next year. In this respect, I would just like to remind you that there is also an efficiency requirement at the bottom of more than DKK 1 billion before you will be able to harvest these funds for increased patient treatment, as referred to. Other changes being made in the specialist healthcare system are the transfer of financial responsibility for medicines for the treatment of MS from public health to regional health establishments, in line with what was previously done for TNF-inhibitors. This could create major problems for many patients and regional health businesses. Patients will be able to be affected by the pressures of health businesses, which, whether they like it or not, can, once again, lead to more consideration for the health business economy and not just for what is best for the patient at any time. In this context, it is important to point out that the Government in its allocation to health businesses in this area has not even taken into account the financing of the new medicine Tysabri, which has a very good effect on many patients, and which costs more than the traditional restricted medicines. This could result in an additional area of health policy being the address of residence that will determine which medicine is being or will not be given. In this regard, I would like to refer to an entry in the Dagsrevyen now tonight about just this, about a patient who has not been offered the medicine Tysabri, and who, as she herself said, sooner or later will end up in a wheelchair. We have challenges in this area, and it would have been desirable if the Government had thought a little bit better about this change in the budget. A lot has been said recently about rehabilitation and training. The government has stated that this is a bet area and all the parties in this room agree that this is something you have to bet on. It has even been said that rehabilitation must be the next major health reform in this country. So the question is, what do you do to get this in place? Well, just in the last year, every six beds in the rehabilitation institutions are gone. No agreements have been concluded, which means that a number of patients who have previously been in line still have to expect to be in long queues before they will be able to receive offers of rehabilitation and training. It is important that we see the relationship between being able to get back to work and how quickly you can get back there, and the importance of having a good rehabilitation offer in place. It is enough to refer to the percentage of heart patients receiving rehabilitation who return to work faster than patients who do not receive this type of rehabilitation. It's a very good social economy, it makes a lot of sense to the individual and to society, so I hope that further pressure will be put on this. It is still possible with the governance signals that can be issued to regional health businesses, but the area of the government budget that includes rehabilitation is, to say the least, slightly puzzled, it should be considerably larger than that which is here. Furthermore, there has been talk of the need for investment funds in the specialist health service. There is no way in which many new hospitals that you travel around the country and the beach are promised to be built. The question is, where does it come from for this purpose? The government itself says that you add $1.69 billion, and that this is a historic boost. Yes, but it has not actually been taken into account that in the past there could have been a deficit of 1.4 billion kroner in health care companies as a result of investment funds, and that you should be able to get 80 pst. of replacement value. You can't do this until next year, so you have to set this off. We have a lot of challenges in health. This budget and the current financial position will not solve the many problems that lie there. I fear that in some areas it will actually reinforce the problems. For regional health businesses, there will be another year of major shifts, efficiency requirements, threats of closure, functional distribution and poorer provision for patients. This was not to be believed to be necessary with the economy of Norway. With regard to the care of the elderly, which also accounted for a large part of the campaign we have behind us, the Government proposes that the new grant included in this budget be able to trigger a thousand new places. But there are not a thousand new places earmarked for care for the elderly – there are a thousand places in the care sector. Thus, it can also be used in other areas and not exclusively in the care of the elderly, where the need for new places is enormous. If only you had to base your day's needs, 25 pst. Of the number of people aged over 80, we would lack between 14,000 and 16,000 places and not 12,000, which is taken into account, among other things. care notification, which has been dealt with in Stortinget in the past. Here, as I said, are many challenges, and I look forward to working together to get an even better health service for the population, but then you also depend on getting a better budget at the next crossroads, which is more adapted to the need and not other things that you can believe are at the root of.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e515	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e518	The difference between the nirvana and the pyelda in our hospital system is obviously SEK 1.7 billion, which the Progress Party proposes to grant in addition to what the Government has proposed. It's not quite a believer for me. I think our health care system is very good and has great confidence. It is politically overthrown and publicly funded. All over the world, we see that health services that are privately funded and privately run are short in meeting the challenges you face. The Progress Party wants more private health in Norway. What makes the Progress Party think it's going to do in Norway what you can't do anywhere else in the world: to offer people a better health service with private items?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e525	We have had private health services for many years. Let me remind the representative Henriksen that in fact, the determinator is a private part of the healthcare system. They are private traders who make an effort on the basis of public reimbursement schemes. Private contract specialists remain part of public health. Furthermore, the development we have had only in the last year, where there have been a reduction in the scope of agreements with private individuals, agreements of which there have been very few in Norway, is clearly a contributing reason why we in Norway now have 20,000 more patients waiting for treatment. Then the question is, is the ideology going to come first, or the patient? The progress party believes that the patient is entitled to treatment. Then you'd better put the ideology a little bit aside.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e532	I think it's pretty amazing that Harald Tom Nesvik is attacking our government's poverty campaign and at the same time talking about habilitation and helping people out in work, when the same Harald Tom Nesvik later today is going to be involved in cutting off the qualifying aid – a social benefit that is just targeting the group that is most out of the ordinary, long-term social welfare recipients, to get them back to work. How this is connected I don't understand. I really wanted to bring up something else with Harald Tom Nesvik on this occasion. This concerns the issue of focusing on the economy and economic governance of the health sector. So it's the way that the Harald Tom Nesvik of the Progress Party criticized putting economy and saving in focus, even though I've never heard anyone else but the Progress Party say that just economics is going to be governing. The Progress Party proposes to increase the ISF from 40 pst. to 60 pst. Does not Harald Tom Nesvik see that this will lead to even more focus on the bottom line?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e539	As far as health services are concerned, the Advancement Party wants to ensure that Norwegian patients get the best help to get back to work quickly, get a better daily life, that relatives can get better. That's what needs to be in focus. Of course, it's important to have the economy in place. The Progress Party focuses on economics in a number of areas. We actually have to. The difference between the proposals of the Progress Party and the Government's proposals for the State budget is that the Government does not focus on treating more patients than what is actually being done. It seems that the government is pleased that 20,000 more have arrived in line. It may seem that waiting times are increasing. We're getting a worse patient offer. We also see that more patients can actually now be at risk of not getting the medicine they need. I think that Heikki Holmås must go back and think a little more about it. With regard to the problem of poverty reduction, the very whole of the proposal that you are making is the most important one. Fiscal policy is very important in combating poverty. Self-esteem in the health system is very important. It looks as if Heikki Holmås has forgotten.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e548	The head of the Health and Care Committee, Nesvik, was in his post much into MS patients and the use of Tysabri. Today our committee has issued a matter that just goes on. We all agree that the patients who can make use of Tysabri will get it, even if we have a somewhat different perception of how this is to be financed. State Council Sylvia Brustad has on several occasions said that all patients who can use Tysabri will get it, no matter where they live. Then I hope Nesvik agrees with me that it can no longer be up to any health professionals to decide whether to use Tysabri for MS patients or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e555	Doctors shall at all times treat the patient according to what is best for the patient. It is an explicit objective, and it is a requirement that is expected to be met by the health care system. Then comes the second problem. The government has not contributed funds to Tysabri. While the responsibility for limiting these medicinal products in MS treatment has been transferred to healthcare companies, no increase in funds has been introduced. This medicine costs NOK 225 000 in one year for one patient. Whether you want to or not, you get into a situation where the economy is going to play a significant role in what kind of medicine a patient can get. If only it had been as well as Gunn Olsen's representative said, not to think about it, I would have been very happy. But it turns out that the economy actually does. It also warns a superior at Ullevål about an item in Dagsrevyen today. Then I just have to remind you that the Committee did not even join the Progress Party's proposal that MS patients should at all times have the treatment that is best for the patient, including Tysabri.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e565	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e568	History is also part of the struggle for politics, and we have had various examples of it today. We have had the government's description of its own research effort as historically good, and we have the State Council Storberget's description of the closer history. Let me do the last one first. I think I'd say so that the State Council of Storberget should be happy that he has not inherited the policing representative of Storberget's police budget. In the case of admission to Police College, the number of students increased from 240 to 290 in 2004 under the Bondevik II government, then 360 in 2005 and 2006. Then the Great Mountain has increased it to 432. The left's view is that it should go on up to 550. Then we'll get the debate going on, but it'll be a little difficult to write about the story and forget that the recording at the Police College was about more governments – from about. 1998 by, and included, the Stoltenberg I Government. So the research. I guess it's no big art to spend a lot of money on research when you swim in money in your homeland. It's the priority that's crucial, and the government that's sitting here has no intention of prioritizing so much that you can get up to 1 pst. of the public investment in research in 2010, as could be done. Then you would have to move on to the same money as the left has done in your budget. With the Left's budget, together with what the Government has done, we would be able to do 1 pst. of public efforts in 2010. It's in a magnitude that's equal to a kindergarten settlement. It was possible to lift it in Norway. It's in the order of magnitude, which is equal to five extra hours in primary school. You can do it. You can do it. When you can't raise this, in a situation with so much money in the budgets, the Left believes it's because the Government doesn't want it. It is not because it does not have money, but it simply does not give priority to research and higher education. What's happening now is pretty clear. You're essentially giving evenly over the bluff of what's going on. A research fund is managed in detail, which everyone thought was free to use to raise large national stakes — climate, industrial development and infrastructure. It is binding and used for the EU framework programme. In the case of scientific equipment, you generally lack what you need — and you know that it is possible to have this money. As far as scholarship holders are concerned, you are one year behind, because you know that you need people to fill the positions that are needed for it to be researched. Curious people are needed; it has to be financed. At the top of it all, you are both blind and deaf when today's students are sitting and protesting both in Oslo and elsewhere because they get cut off in their educational offer. That's because you've cut the basic appropriations for universities and colleges by under 300 million. kr. Then universities choose to screen their top research. They choose to screen their research, and then it just hits something that was widely agreed in Stortinget, namely the Quality Reform for Higher Education. The figures we're talking about here are going to a research fund. So if we had the 75 billion fund from the Bondevik II government, we would be able to get up to 1 pst. of the public investment in 2010. If the Left had been re-prioritised at NOK 1.2 billion, it would have been clear. The left has done this in its alternative budget, and thus strengthens the research effort by DKK 1.2 billion and education by another DKK 0.5 billion. When I stop by these numbers, it's because I've learned from smart politicians that politics is also wanting something. That's also to want to pick something. I think it's a very honest thing that you don't want to choose this. What I'm responding to is that you describe it as if you're doing it anyway. You just don't do it. The government's reality description in this area is in quite a contrast to what Research Norway says, whether they say it a little loud, as some people do, or lowly, as many others do. The sizes are such that it's almost unintelligible that you don't want to. It is known that research is crucial for democracy. It is known that it is absolutely essential to solve the major climate crisis we are in, and it is known that it is crucial for both the living and the unborn business. In this situation, we do not choose to bet on what has been a historical line in Norway, namely that knowledge gives power. And knowledge is essential for building both democracy and business. It's been a line that's historically agreed, for example. The Left Party and the Workers' Party – and also the Swedish Labour Party – are now separated in practice because the Government does not have the will to bet. The left has this will, and we have chosen to prioritize it for weighty reasons. Research is part of our cultural base and understanding of identity as a nation. It is essential to be able to take the climate promise we have to take in order to be able to have a proper relationship with ourselves and our descendants, and it is essential for any kind of economic development. In this post a little bit out in the evening, when it gets a little bit tough, we get a little bit clear from the fact that the Left doesn't like it very much that we have a red-green government that until those degrees can't choose to prioritize research and think about the future that way. Yes, it is almost alarming that a red-green government, a centre-left government, is unable to do this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e591	The old saying that there should be a good backlog to carry good days is appropriate to the economic situation in Norway and to the well-being of most of us. It is at such times that good financial management is important – and we have good financial management. We're among the countries in the world that spend the most money in hospitals. We add on plenty every year, but still it doesn't seem enough. The health and care sectors are among those who have received the most money in next year's budget. The health and care sector is the budget winner for next year, said Reidar Sandal, Chairman of the Financial Committee. The government's budget for 2008 is a historically good budget for the specialist health service – with a real growth of a total of DKK 3.9 billion compared to the 2007 budget. In addition, 700 million are continued. kr that we gave in St.prp. No 44 for 2006-2007 and 170 million. kr to finance increased activity from 2006 to 2007. For the first time since 2002, a planned fully funded activity increase of 1.5 pst is envisaged. for all patient regimens. This is equivalent to 900 million. kr. In the case of investments, the Government proposes to grant SEK 1.67 billion, so that health businesses for the first time since the reform was launched will be able to assume responsibility for both operations and investments. If you are to judge by the large media image, Norwegian health services and our hospitals are in constant crisis – and there is only more money to solve the problems. I guess it's just the few people who believe in it. Many claim that the hospital reform has failed. I disagree. But there is reason to remember that those who took over government responsibility just after the reform was adopted were not in favour of the reform and thus perhaps did not feel very well with the great efforts to get it so successful. There is no reason to hide that many health businesses should have been more stringent from the first day. It takes time to tighten up the free assignment. That job has government council Brustad and the government started. There is no doubt that specialist health services face major challenges. We're going to spend a lot more dollars. But we don't just need that, we also need conversions. Changeovers do not mean cut that will affect the offer to patients. Conversions are also necessary to improve the quality of treatment. Everyone can't do everything. Today's patients are very conscious of what kind of treatment they can get when the disease strikes. Then the patients to the hospital where the quality is best. The quality just becomes good by specializing in it. We want to research on causes of diseases and how to cure them. We want to apply new medicines, new equipment and new treatments. It is said that the more we can cure, the longer the queues become for treatment. There's a reason to remind you that 20 years ago we sent patients with heartbreak to England. It wasn't about operating heart patients over 80 years. So let's do that. 90-year-olds are cured of their gray star. The list can be done much longer. And that's how we want it. In addition, we've given the psychiatry a whole new focus. We want everyone who needs it to get the best possible treatment, regardless of disease and residence. But with hospital operations, as opposed to all other activities, the more hospitals produce, the more cost it costs, and even more management we need. There are hard budgetary processes going on in individual health businesses now. Many of the proposals create major debates in many communities. It is important that the Governing Boards are given the necessary time to assess all aspects of the proposal — including quality. We want everyone to feel safe about having a good hospital offer, and that local hospitals should not be left as hospital bodies. We, on our side, must be sensitive to the seriousness of the constructive proposals that are coming. Many have great hopes that in 2008 we will see the results of the merger of former Health South and Health East. There is a great potential for coordination here. There should be a financial gain to be gained. Hospital area, personnel, equipment, subject, research, ICT are key.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e617	It is tragic to read in the newspaper that an 85-year-old minimum pensioner has to go to the Fattighuset here in Oslo to get food. Unfortunately, this is not unique. In addition to continuous newspaper headlines, we are now receiving alarming messages from more and more municipalities that the minimum pensioners represent an increasing proportion of those in need of social assistance. An age pensioner cannot be meant to have to go to the social office — or even worse: at the Fattighuset — to get food to survive. Well, the red-green parties have declared what they call the line of work, which makes sense to anyone who can work, but to demand that old-age pensioners go to work to survive is, in my opinion, to go too far. An old-age pension shall be to live on, including a minimum pension. In the EU, poverty is limited, and this limit is about NOK 125 000. Those who earn less than DKK 125 000 in an EU country are categorised as poor. In Norway, a minimum pensioner above NOK 119 000 is in retirement. This means that this person is far below what the EU considers to be poor. The fact that Norway is a high-cost country does not improve the situation. All you have to buy is more expensive than in comparable countries, which makes it extra difficult to be poor in Norway. It is particularly bad that there are often charges that make goods cost more in Norway than elsewhere. One often hears in the political debate that oil money will be put on book for the next generation, and that it is immoral to spend children's money. But although I agree that most of what is called oil money is going to go to the future pensions, I don't have the heart to sit and watch that those who, after the war, were all part of building this country, from poor countries to Norway becoming a rich country, will have to go to the social office to survive. It is unworthy for a nation as rich as Norway not to provide pensioners with minimum pensions above the EU poverty line. We can afford to give those who are minimum pensioners today, an acceptable pension. For the Progress Party, it is essential that the pension should not only be sufficient for an existence basis, it should also allow for a content in which a person who has a minimum pension can afford to avoid any benefits. Unfortunately, this is not the case for many. I have registered that several labour party and SV politicians are out demanding equal pay for men and women – because women are far too far behind men in wage development. Most of the minimum pensioners are women. In fact, nine out of ten minimum pensioners are women — women who were at home and took care of the children and the home while the man was out in gainful employment. It was the man who accumulated pension credits, while the woman, who was at home, did not. It might be an idea to start by giving the women who have the lowest income, as the minimum pensioners, a real wage jump. Here the red-green parties have the opportunity to show in practice what they claim with words, and both raise the income of women and lift many more out of poverty. Therefore, the Progress Party has proposed raising the minimum pension to twice the basic amount. A minimum pensioner then increases his income by well over NOK 1000, up to approx. NOK 133 000. This means that the minimum pension in Norway exceeds the EU's poverty line, but it means that most of the minimum pensioners who have to go to the Poor House or the Social Office today get rid of it. I am disappointed that the government cannot afford to give the pensioners who have the lowest pension, room for something extra besides buying food, paying bills and paying the rent. I am disappointed that the Government will not share in giving this promise to our minimum pensioners, especially after the Labour Party in the election campaign suggested to the older part of the population that the fight for the elderly, and against poverty, should be the first bid. It's just to see that there's a long way between life and learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e638	The government is working every day to achieve a positive economic development across the country. The main picture in Norway is good housing, good private finances, good public service and a business life that goes down. In other words, it is difficult to recognize in much of the description given by several speakers of the opposition. Now, the main responsibility for developing a good business is for business itself. The role of authorities is to provide industry with a good general framework that allows them to compete on equal terms. In this area, there are several things that are important. I can see good access to capital to promote innovation and the importance of investing in research, product development and, not least, competence and interaction to meet the challenges of strong technological developments. In total, the Government of €1.85 billion for nutrition research into the Ministry of Industry and Trade's budget. The government is pursuing a business policy for value creation, which in the next round is the very basis for good welfare for all. There is no facsimile response on how best to manage government funds. Therefore, it is important that the use is evaluated and targeted at a long time. A lot of people might say that only we get enough money, so this is going to be all right. But it's not that simple. Money is an important factor, of course it is, but money alone is not the answer to this challenge. That is why I believe it is important to target the measures better, without necessarily spending so much more money. A responsible economic policy is alpha and omega for business. Its overarching strategy must be to promote the development of new, sustainable and profitable jobs. At the same time, we must stimulate the creation of value in the areas based on the intentions of this country. And the areas that the Government pointed out in the Soria Moria Declaration, we all know. This will be followed up by action in the form of national strategies and state budget promises. The government has proposed to establish a new State investment fund of DKK 2.2 billion in the budget. 500 million. kr shall be returned to the marine sector. The Fund shall provide long-term and risk capital – primarily for start-ups. In this way, we can use the state's capital to develop new jobs and ensure that value creation is anchored here in the country. But we must not forget to take care of existing businesses. It is worrying in many ways when we know how businesses work to get qualified people to key settings. Competence is therefore an important element of good nutrition development. Today, most young people train for a profession. Very few train to create their own job. Here the school has a great task of helping to create so-called job creators. District-active school is a well-known occupation for many. Several advanced schools have been working with District Active Schools for many years. The aim here is to give young people confidence in their own creative powers and ability to see, and to be able to use, local resources as a basis for the development of communities and workplaces. In other words, we can call it entrepreneurship in our youth. This is about raising our young people to become workers, so that they are less likely to stand up and wait for jobs that others have created for them. Man is our most important resource. Therefore, it is decisive to bet on post- and post-expression, which gives man a new chance, lifelong learning and up-to-date competence. This will be more central in the years to come, as technological developments are speeding up and competition in the business world is increasing. Finally, I'll bring you a little heart attack. We have a tendency not to value the founders after their foresight. And it's probably part of the Norwegian people's society, the pleasure that meets those who try to create something, but who may fail. This hold we must come to life, because it's only those who never try, who never will.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e669	During this month we have received two important studies on the future of defence: the position of the Defence Policy Committee and the Chief of Defence's study on the future Defence. They both, albeit in a slightly different way, send the same message: if we want to have a good defence, a full-scale defence – and we should, with the responsibilities of Norway, repoint the defence budget arrows. They have a slightly different way of telling it, but the message is quite clear: more money is needed in the defense, otherwise ambitions have to go down even further. This is a message that is also supported in many ways by the draft budget presented by the Government. Once again, the budget goes down, and we see the consequences. It is a budget well below the average required by the long-term plan, on the basis of which the compromise was drawn up in Stortinget. It is a budget that means that during this four-year period we are now 4 billion dollars below the level we should have in terms of investment. And it's a budget that further cuts in practice, in a situation where maybe we should do the opposite. It has been necessary to cut the big exercise ‘Cold Response’, where our allies were to participate, but it is also necessary to cut important exercises in Home Affairs. And if there's something that connects the Homeland soldiers to the daily operations, it's just that they're in to practice. This image is reinforced by the fact that the conversions are still behind. If we want a full-scale defense, this is no longer going to work. Now it's always easy to push it in the defense. But the Defence Policy Committee has provided us with a very interesting formulation – it's talking about the Defence 'timeless responsibility' to take care of the security of the state. Yeah, that's exactly what this is about. It's so easy to push from one year to another, but if you're going to take care of this timeless task, we have to make sure that we keep the defense in order every year. That is the challenge we have to face when, later in this session, Stortinget is going to deal with the long-term defence plan. This is also updated by what we now see in the northern regions, with increasing Russian activity, not because we need to worry about it, but because it tells us what language our big neighboring country uses. Then we have to use the same language. Right does not want to participate in this annual reduction in the defence budget. So two years in a row, we've now taken the position that we have to give more money than the government, and it's in the alternative budget. Only in these two years has it also become an amount of now almost $1 billion, which would make a big difference, for example. on the Defence Investment Budget. It may also be here that we believe that some of the efforts now should be put in place if we are to keep pace with the changes in the defence. Now this is the last year of the long-term programme period. But then at the same time we have to sit down and see: is that the level we have now achieved, a good basis for the next long-term programme period? The answer to that is that it is not. These two investigations show that next year's budget must be the deformed low point, and then the curves have to go up again, otherwise we have to come up with quite painful proposals to get the necessary balance of defense. It should therefore be possible to reach agreement between the parties on the Stortinget on a different budget. I have noticed that some members of the government are expressing the wish that the future defence should have broad support in the Storting, but I have also met representatives of the majority parties who say it is the exact opposite. Also in this area, there are obviously demolitions in the government. And it would be interesting to hear from the government team how to build this future defense, and how to join it. But we haven't heard anything about that, and we might get to live in excitement until spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e682	We have major challenges related to the level of knowledge in Norwegian school. While seven years of schooling without special reading and writing skills could be used in the past, all workplaces now require good skills in, among other things. reading and writing. The workplace requires more knowledge than before. School policy has in the past been an arena of great ideological disunity. Today, the level of conflict is lower. There is a cross-political agreement on investing in basic skills in Norwegian, math and English. That's good. But there is a great deal of disagreement in two areas. The first area is the question of private schools, which we've discussed in this room before. The second point where there has been a great deal of disagreement is the question of how much resources the school needs. The previous government thought there was no link between quality and money use. There we disagree. Our Minister of Finance, before the 2005 elections, gave the following message to School Norway: Now the bottom is reached, now the arrows have to point upwards. And we see that quite clearly – now the cuts in school have stopped. If you go online and apply for school cuts before and after 2005, you will see a marked change. We bet at school, because we know that quality costs. However, we have major challenges, including: in the case of getting more teachers into school. Now we also go to a full day school, with several hours in the first years. It will give children more time to learn to read, give more space, greater effort from the beginning and time to learn through different methods, because children are different. Think of it when we started school for six-year-olds. At that time, there was great opposition to the children learning to read and write when they were most motivated. It would probably ruin childhood. But we are now taking care of the curiosity of children. We're going to give children the opportunity to learn when they're most motivated. That's why we're increasing our initial effort. This government is investing in research and higher education. We increase the number of places in pre-school teacher training and in teacher training. In the research effort, we are well ahead of the previous government, and it was at least a strange thing to hear the representative from Dørum here instead of expressing a huge disappointment that we are now increasing the Research Fund by NOK 6 billion. Yes, we're increasing by $6 billion this year, we increased by $10 billion last year and $14 billion in the first year of our government. But what was the case in the state budgets when Dørum was in government? In the first state budget, the increase was DKK 3 billion, in the second, NOK 3 billion, in the third state budget, the increase was DKK 1 billion, and in the last state budget, the increase was NOK 3.2 billion. So that he is so terribly disappointed by the research efforts of the red-green government, can only suggest that he has more expectations for this government than he had for the government he himself was a member of. We're also increasing the number of scholarship holders, and that's important to increase recruitment for research. Learning places have been concerned that when we receive more scholarships, there is also an increased need for guidance capacity. That is why we are also strengthening the possibility of this in the financial position. This budget also represents a commitment to the renewal of teacher training. We are now spending a lot of money on continuing training, but we also need to reform teacher training in order to get better teachers in the future. And on the question of renewing teacher training and getting more qualified teachers, our two new state councils are very committed, so we're going to hear more about this matter in time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e695	It's going well in the Norwegian economy. We have four years behind us with very high growth. It is estimated that the period 2004–2008 will be the strongest continuous growth period since the early 1970s. It was therefore important for the Government to provide a sound and responsible budget for 2008, which will contribute to the continuation of this positive development. We're doing a steady and predictable phase-in of oil revenue. At the same time, we are strengthening Community solutions. The debate today has shown that there is a great deal of will and clear desire among the majority of the population to continue this responsible line. Strong economic growth is also a challenge. In the construction industry, there is strong cost growth. High-ranking managers believe that labour shortages are the most important factors limiting production in the future. From the sector I know best, agriculture, there is a report of an increase in construction costs and labour shortages. In such a situation, just accountability and soberness are essential to ensure this business environment with which they can live over time. At the same time, strong economic growth creates well-known, yet challenging, challenges in the field of rural development. Centralisation forces are being strengthened in good times because local small businesses are unable to maintain a competitive wage level. There may be less power in business development and less power to create jobs in rural areas, unless this is met with strong enough instruments. It will be a very important task for the Government in the future to strengthen the development of nutrition and housing in District Norway. It is a work we should focus on further, sailing if many and important actions are already in place in the event of a strong upturn in the infrastructure effort through the implementation of the national transport plan by strengthening the development of full mobile and broadband coverage through, inter alia, the industries managing rural resources. a new investment fund for marine industries, a very good agricultural settlement and a reintroduction of forest policy; Not least, we have done something very important to develop a diverse business life in rural areas, namely that self-employed people are given the same rights as employees in terms of maternity and parental leave. The sum is an active regional industrial development policy. The opposite must be said to be the alternative budget proposals of the right-hand party as we see in the Stortinget now. The Progress Party and the Right are proposing to cut the appropriations for the agricultural agreement by SEK 7.1 billion and DKK 1.8 billion respectively. The section of the progress party means NOK 122 000 less per year. annual work, a reduction in agricultural annual income by 75 pst. in a year, while the Right proposal represents NOK 33 000, a cut of 20 pst. per 1 % years. There is no possibility of implementing any form of constructive conversion at a pace specifically foreseen by the Progress Party. The ice is melting. Climate action is therefore extremely important – now. The government has great ambitions in this area and follows up in the budget, among other things. by granting 1125 million. kr for CO2 capture, transport and storage work. In addition, the framework for Enova has increased considerably. Through that, we're going to put in place an infrastructure that allows us to change the heating in dwellings and businesses from panel furnaces and oil boilers to bioenergy-based heaters. In addition, the increase in fuel oil tax along with the new climate quota strategy will be important to change the competitive relationship between different energy sources in a climate-friendly direction. For example, the increase in the fee for fuel oil and labelled diesel will lead to an increase in the energy price of about 5 øre per. kWh. That means something. In agriculture, the Stortinget is now dealing with a green shift from tax to tax in this area. It is a good example of a forward-looking policy that makes pollution less profitable. Last week I was at the General Conference of the Food Organization of the United Nations, FAO. Norway was one of the clearest messengers that the link between climate change and food security is setting new precedents for international work against hunger, poverty and environmental disasters. It is a pleasure to note that several share this exposure. Norway is now on the global map in this area. We're too much of a general commitment. The establishment of the seed storage at Svalbard is seen as an important international event. The 2008 budget ensures the funding for the establishment and operation of Svalbard global seedews. I am proud that we are now laying the foundation for ensuring that global genetic diversity is preserved for future generations. It is also an important contribution to the fight against hunger and poverty in developing countries in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e736	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e739	The party trap of the Council of State, the representative Lundtägen, stated in a reply earlier today: ‘In the case of farmers, which are a little more grounded, and which I have a certain prerequisite to talk about, and supervision in this regard, I can assure the representative Tybring-Gjedde that it will soon go beyond all limits in relation to the supervision and requirements of those responsible for food production in Norway. [[...]] It gives us the opportunity to greatly simplify a lot of things. [[...]] There's someone who's going to pay, and there's someone who's going to live with it. It is a major problem for us who work in practice in Norwegian agriculture.’ These are very reasonable views of the representative of Lundtigen. Are these views that the Council of State shares and will follow up on its efforts to simplify bureaucracy in Norwegian agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e750	I share Mr Lundtigen's view that it is important to have a level of supervision and management around agriculture and agricultural policy in the future. The most important thing we do now is hygiene packages, more internal controls on individual agricultural and agricultural holdings and less public supervision on individual holdings. It means more responsibility for the individual farmer, but it also means the opportunity to stand for more of this sea. This means that we are at slaughterhouses, for example. will have less specific supervision to look at practically every slaughtered chicken and more overall supervision based on internal controls. The answer to the question is yes, we're working on this, and we have important things that are going to work relatively quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e755	In 2005, the Council of State was quick to declare every abandoned farm to be a defeat. But the closures continued, and after two years, the representative Lundteg believes that agriculture is in its worst crisis of 40 years. Norwegian agricultural policy is characterized by the dream of small-scale farming, the population, and that is why we have discrimination against the largest milk producers. They were not allowed to participate in the increase in milk production in the autumn. We have concession limits that stand on the ground resting, even though the business world is growing every year. We have subsidy schemes for sheep that stop at 300 winter-fed sheep, although this is not enough to finance a single annual farm. Next year we'll probably import about 14 pst. of Norwegian consumption of beef and sheep meat. Does not the Council of State not see that the Central Party’s small user dream has expired in relation to the social development of which the farmers are also to be part?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e762	If there is something I am absolutely certain about, it is that the development of agriculture in Norway will in the future be about the diversity of agriculture that takes up all the resources that exist on and around a farm. This means that we need to have a sufficient number of farms around the village to be able to provide food based on resources such as pastures, land, etc. around the farm. This means that the farm must be present in the community — as a hub for economic development, whether it is green care, bioenergy or the use of forest resources in this area. If we do what we want to do, a strong centralisation of food production, and remove farm use from these local environments, we also eliminate the possibility of just driving this development of nutrition, harnessing all resources and driving building development, while at the same time we are engaged in food production.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e769	Agriculture has complicated legislation, and many laws prevent dynamism and development. The left has stated on several occasions that we want a review of the legislation and legislation to modernise it. This is a point of view that has not been particularly deep in the Government in general and in the Council of State in particular. But maybe there's hope anyway. Because in a line change earlier today, which was also attended by the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, the representative Lundtegen said that ‘it soon crosses all borders in relation to the supervision and requirements of food producers in Norway’. Is this a description that the Council of State also agrees with, or does Lundtigen operate without coverage, whether in the Party or in the Government? And can we expect an offensive attitude in terms of a systematic review of legislation to modernise it and adapt it to a new era, bringing optimism and commitment back into agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e776	It was a bit of an ointment about legislation inherited in many areas from a regime in which the representative Kongshaug was very central in the field of agricultural policy. When it comes to further development, I am concerned with simplification, and I have just expanded one area that we have worked on, which is essential for simplifying the legislation against both the individual farmer and the food business. So there's a balance of what's going to happen, for example. to have adequate internal control on each farm in order to ensure that we are in the event of an outbreak of disease, for example: as in the E. coli case, can go back, have good enough tracking systems, have control systems that allow us to figure out the starting point for the error, where this started. There's a balance on the one hand up to the fact that we don't have to make a bureaucracy, so let's say what we do, for example. have seen the development of EU agriculture, which makes the common Norwegian farmer feel as much as a paper processor as a food producer.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e785	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e788	I must first of all be allowed to say that it is nice to see so many government councils present. It wasn't like that last year. Had it been more, I might have thought there was a cabinet question going on, but it's not that bad. It's just the financial debate on the budget for 2008, and that might be something very good. Enough about that. Maybe we'll talk about other things. Initially, I'll be allowed to give the government honor for one thing, and that's the reduction in the passport fee, which I think it stands respect for, and which I also think is basically correct. Honor be the Minister of Finance and the rest of the Government for that. Now I've given you today's reward. Then I can go over to the other side of the account, and the balance sheet. The government boasts of the fight against crime and of taking care of the justice sector. It's a description that some of us have big problems getting to know each other. The fact is that this government is reducing the arm rate for many of the important things. Not least when it comes to being a fellow judge, we've had a regime where you've got a handshake to complain about this work. It has become obsolete by the Government. They started for a few years back and removed it for some, and for the next year they remove what's left. You point out that it's a citizen's duty, and that's it, but it's a citizen's duty that you expect to do without having anything left for it. At the same time, the other equivalent position is where you actually have both paid hours and more, but you choose to ignore that. I guess you could say that the logic of this is that if a single-armed person went to the doctor and wanted treatment for it, you also removed the other arm, so that you got some kind of balance in it. It may be a bad comparison, yet I take the chance. So over to the description of reality. It would have been interesting to see today's government if we turned it around and said that this budget had been provided by another government, and that today's government was the opposition that was sitting there. Would you have been equally generous with the reward for what had been presented, or would you have shared many of the concerns that the opposition has today? Or is it that this is the only blessing? In any case, it was a fact that when we had budget hearings about the justice sector, there was not much money to get. Of course, it's possible that we invited the wrong people. It's possible that the wrong people met up. But when an overall police Norway points out that this is the worst thing they've seen since 2004, and it was a year when the Workers' Party had entered into a budgetary settlement with Bondevik II, it must be quite serious. The police community, which is an organization with great confidence, had calculated that there was a shortage of 120 million. kr if the year's budget is prescribed for next year. I think that's bad. I think it's search. And I think it might be the most disrespectful to those who live in this country, who actually expect to get help when they need help. But it's a responsibility that this government is jumping from with its tail between its legs, if it's allowed to say so, President. And then, of course, you can wonder why things evolve like they do. We're talking about the centralisation of services, we're talking about security cooperation. We had an episode in my own state where a person who drove in the heel was lying two hours for the open stage. It is a policy which, at least, will not be included in the Progress Party. It is possible that it is a good red-green policy, but it is a bad policy from our point of view. There have been other examples. I was in Finnmark just before the election campaign ended and heard about an example from there, a collision in a tunnel – with injuries. When the police arrived at the scene, the injured persons were picked up in an ambulance and drove away, the rescue car had picked up the wrecks, and the fire service had spilled the site. How, then, should the police be able to conduct a crime investigation — write a report? It's totally incomprehensible to me. But this is the commitment and operational policy of a red-green government. It may well be heard verbally, but for the poor people who are going to live with it, the reality is quite traumatic at times. We see people who shoplift, who don't get help. We see examples of the laying down of cases with a known perpetrator, even though the Storting has said that there should not be cases with a known perpetrator, and you have a duty to follow it up. At the same time, the police are powerless and say that we cannot do this. On 16 May 2002, the Storting decided to establish a police helicopter service. It has now the red-green government shaved so until the degrees that it is going to be significantly less operative than it has been. The assumption of size was that this is a unique tool — it was estimated to cost between 20 and 25 million. kr – to assist the police on many occasions. So now you're going to cut down on the use of it. The most operational, and the best and best police helicopters in Europe, we're going to use less, because we can't afford to use it. It's possible, it is, but – again – I have trouble seeing it. And if we can't afford to use the best tool, do we get a better police force, a better justice sector, using the second best? At least it seems to be the operational policy of the current government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e809	The President would say that the expression "with the tail between the legs" is an unparliamentary expression. So if the representative is in doubt if he can use it, he might not use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e812	This has been and will be a long debate, but in the long run, what happens when the parties get real power and influence, which really tells what constitutes the differences between the parties. The local economy is a good example. When the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left were in government, with the support of the Advance Party, the dissatisfaction was great in Norwegian municipalities over the lack of both money and understanding of the tough everyday life of the municipalities. Carl I. Hagen writes it out just as it was, in his book, that the Progress Party in budgetary negotiations with the Bondevik government prioritised cheaper spirits rather than more public welfare through a strengthened local economy. There was no sign of better times if the bourgeois parties had kept their majority. But luckily we got the new, red-green government. In three years, transfers to municipalities have actually increased by nearly DKK 21 billion – many have mentioned this today – about half in the form of free income, the remainder being earmarked for important investments, especially in the kindergarten sector. In addition, the local government sector has received substantial additional tax revenue — approximately. $8 billion. So there is no particular doubt that those who are concerned with a strengthened community economy obviously have the most to serve on red-green politicians. Strong increases in the municipal economy have given rise to significant increases in the provision of municipal welfare, not least in schools and care, and have corrected much of the imbalances in the sector. The willingness and impatience to give children and the elderly — yes, people of all ages — an increasingly secure and better welfare offer is high in Norway. And I say, great! But there are still many municipalities that feel they should have, and that should have had, more money to solve their problems. If that's not the only explanation, this also illustrates how difficult the economic situation in large parts of Kommune-Norway was really before the red-green additions started. It takes time to get up. At the same time, we have an income system in the sector that is not fair enough. There are considerable differences in the ability of the different municipalities to obtain income as a basis for the provision of welfare to the population, and the challenges in the different municipalities are very different. Therefore, the cohesion policy, the distribution policy, which is part of the income system, is so important to ensure a good supply to the population throughout the country. That's why we want to create a fairer system that will be presented to spring in the context of the municipal proposition. It's going to be interesting to see what kind of positions the parts in this room will occupy. It is likely that once again those who have always wanted to give at least to the municipalities are also the most towards more distribution. Interest rate developments naturally also have a strong impact on the local economy. So also in view of the welfare and well-being of the local government sector, and therefore the provision of services to you and me, it is important that a fiscal policy is pursued that prevents interest rates from increasing. Many are also keen on the development of wage and price levels. This is a development we will follow closely. We have played and will continue to play with municipalities and county councils to ensure good Community solutions. One of the most incomprehensible and disappointing actions of the previous government was to cut sharply the top-level funding mechanism for particularly resource-intensive services, the offer to those who need it the most. Fortunately, our government has arranged for the Bondevik government – and more than that. We've put in place a much better system, as promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. It's added 500 million. kr more in this pot, and we have got a much more fair system between the municipalities. I have never quite understood the motive of the previous government for the attack on this scheme. Then it is easier to see Right Motivation when they propose to cut a quarter of a billion in transfers to county municipalities next year. Right will this popular level of life, and starvation is a method of which there is competence in those circles – and then I don't think about the county councils, but on the right. Cuts in county budgets particularly affect secondary education. About two thirds of net operating budgets go to just higher education. In addition, the county has responsibility for culture, county roads and public transport – all areas in which the Right says they are concerned, but we see how they deal with it now when they promote their budget proposal. I am also pleased that, in the context of this State budget, an action plan for increased integration is again being presented. We see that we get it done. We see that we are going the right way, and the effort is constantly increasing. In the context of integration, good local economy is also important. So there's a lot of reasons not to miss the previous government. Nor is there any popular requirement in Municipality-Norway to get that government back into the government corridors, or to see other varieties of civil government cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e840	Self-crushing should be listened to, especially because it comes from the heart – and not least from the heart of the Hage Hill. There's no way what's happened to good things in this country after we got a red-green government. But at least that has led to the councilman in my municipality, Eidsvoll, saying to the local authority that it has never been as bad an economy as it is now, in his 25 years as a councilman, so it seems a little different in reality. In the summer there was a demonstration outside the Storting where 150 representatives from patient organisations and rehabilitation institutions demanded that what they called the Government’s collapse of the rehabilitation offer should be stopped. Last week, the Health and Welfare Committee and the Council of State received 225,000 signatures from people from all over the country demanding a better rehabilitation offer. It made an impression on me, but it doesn't seem to have made a visible impression on the Government. Unfortunately, it has become a personality feature of this government that it breaks promises and does not follow up what it has promised. While considerable efforts were promised in drug treatment and rehabilitation, there are only non-binding strategies. Escalation becomes a step down, or at best only a price adjustment. The treatment queues are growing, and more good offers are weathering. In the right we keep what we promise. We're going to follow up our main bet and we're going to put a total of 550 million. more than the Government next year for rehabilitation and drug treatment. In addition, the Right has proposed an obligatory escalation plan with earmarked funds to strengthen the provision of services in the municipalities and in the specialist health service, and with a specific grant to stimulate interaction on a holistic and good offer to patients. Capacity needs to be strengthened and the recruitment of personnel and the development of treatment provision needs to be increased. It must have a cross-political commitment to over several years to address the problems and meet the challenges in this area. The right-hand proposal for an escalation plan was made in the Committee today, but the Government will not support this proposal. In other words, they do not want to commit. It's worrying. A unanimous committee entered the current year's budget in order for rehabilitation to become the next major field of activity. The expectations for the 2008 budget, both from the patient organisations, from the institutions and from the Right, were high, and the same was the disappointment when the budget came. No increase in the appropriations for rehabilitation and drug treatment this year either. It's a breach of promise. The professionals at the Bergensklinikken Foundation say the following on their website: ‘The proposal presented under the heading ‘Exposure plan for the drug field’ is in fact the second smallest amount earmarked for the drug field, especially that some government has provided for the last 10 years. The only budget that was smaller was that of the current government for 2007. The long list of concrete actions of the Soria Moria Declaration in what was called a National Binding Rapture Plan has been permanently blown away.’ There is a strong diet from the subject and from the drug organizations. The right looks at the fact that fewer places are now being used by private institutions. The number of stays at private rehabilitation institutions fell by 16 pst. from 2005 to 2006 and the available capacity remained unused. Right-wing fears that the government is deliberately building down valuable private offerings without a full offer in the public domain. This is going to affect the patients. Private providers are not only a complement to public health, but an important part of the overall health supply. In a good socialist tradition, the red-green government has decided to reduce private rehabilitation services. It's a pointless ideological crusade that hits patients hard. It is not often that I agree with the representative Lundtigen, but in a debate earlier this year he said that what is now happening in the area of rehabilitation should be dealt with with with with greater sensitivity, and one should add the ideological glasses – with a clear address to his own government. He believed that there is now a build-up of capacity within the public sector, which in many cases contributes to greater costs. The Prime Minister spoke a lot about the warm community in the election campaign. However, the 2008 budget and the current budget are a cold debt to some of the worst in society, namely those addicted to drugs. When the government has SEK 130 billion more to go with in the year's budget than it had in 2005, it is incomprehensible to me that they cannot – or have the will or the ability – prioritize those who have the most difficulty in society, i.e. those who sit at the bottom of the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e873	The government is on its way to fulfilling the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration and has presented a draft budget that will take us an important step forward towards the objectives. The government's draft budget provides, inter alia, for: more money for research and higher education, more student housing, increased support for studies, extended day of school in childhood, strengthening adult education rights and a good step towards full childcare coverage. The size of the budget has taken action to further strengthen important aspects of our knowledge society. I'm glad that all the parties are engaged in education and research. The debate today has also shown that. The government is concerned with quality at all levels of the knowledge society. The learning environment shall be stimulating; there shall be good interaction between the individual skills and subjects learned and the whole human being, i.e. the ability of the child or youth and the ability to master and benefit from learning. As part of the big kindergarten campaign, the government will spend 66 million dollars. kr for quality development in kindergartens. This is about ensuring competence and increasing recruitment. There are redispatched capacities in the university and higher education sectors, so that we have 125 new places in pre-school teacher education. In the case of initial training, the Government will continue the large investment in quality development of NOK 1 billion. Of this, 375 is going to be million. kr directly to the school owner for competence development actions. Lifelong learning should not just be something you're talking about nicely. It must be a reality – even for adults who want to learn more, or re-learn neglected learning. We see that many adults fall outside adult education and thus also in many cases outside the labour market. The government will extend the adult right to all adults over 25 years of age from the autumn of 2008. As regards the learning situation for those who fall for a short or longer time outside established society and the usual services, learning and schooling are an important prevention effort. This government has retreated and established training services in prisons that have not had this in the past. In addition, of course, training is provided at all new prison sites. In order to strengthen teacher training, we will allocate 40 million. SEK to, among others a programme for the guidance of newly-trained teachers. I can assure Stortinget that we will come back strongly with a case of teacher training in 2008. The government is increasing the funding for research into the state budget by NOK 1.2 billion, to NOK 17.8 billion. This is a real growth of about 3 pst. Expenditure on State budget research and development is estimated at 0.77 p.m. GDP. The goal is still that this should be 1 pst. So we still have something to go after. In addition, the capital of the Research Fund will be increased by NOK 6 billion, to NOK 66 billion, which will secure SEK 300 million. kr more for research in 2009. The university and higher education sectors receive a real growth of 2 pst. The government has chosen to prioritise efforts that the sector itself has said are very important for future research and education. This applies, inter alia, to: the 350 new scholarships, scientific equipment and university museums. We are therefore strongly committed to recruiting for the research profession to meet the needs of industry, academia and society. These scholarship positions, worth 112 million. kr, will hopefully be a good help and incentive for our higher education institutions just to strengthen and build a good and strong research effort. The government will also introduce a national scheme of research schools. The Research School at Simula is to be continued. In addition, Stortinget will strengthen the research conditions of universities and higher education institutions and allocate 20 million. NOK to this. I am very pleased with this important recording from Stortinget. It is a signal that the Stortinge prioritizes this area. We're proposing to allocate 38 million. to exceptional efforts for equipment at universities and higher education institutions. The University Museums need, inter alia: better magazines. We want to strengthen the university museums by 40 million. kr in 2008. Climate challenges are serious and must be met with measures and prevention both in research and elsewhere in our behaviour. National and international researchers call for caution, including: that major changes in the climate can lead to the eradication of several species. Among other things, in order to ensure the work of the Species database on surveys of endangered species, the Stortinget will strengthen the allocation by 7 million. kr. This is very loving, and an important strengthening in an important subject area. The government is increasing the funding for student housing by 40 million. kr, which makes it possible to promise about 670 new student housing next year, depending on where they are built. Overall, the proposed measures for kindergartens, schools, educational institutions and research communities will bring us a good step forward both quantitatively and qualitatively in the development of the knowledge society.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e914	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e917	Trange University budgets have led to the withdrawal of many permanent posts. At some institutes, the staff is now almost halved. There is such a large lack of guidance capacity and operational means that it is difficult to accept PhD fellows. Norway’s major problem in the sector today is getting enough skilled researchers, a problem that is reinforced when the funds become a scarce factor. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Research Fund is used for the purpose for which it was adopted, namely to strengthen the long-term basic research, and not, as it is now, used to close gaps in ordinary appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e924	The funds allocated to 350 research positions at universities and colleges are one of the most important for higher education institutions in terms of strengthening their research. I am aware that we have a research fund that will be used for many things, including basic research, and it is my ambition that we will continue to increase the Research Fund, as we have done this year, with quite a few million dollars, which in turn will help strengthen the contribution to basic research. The EU quota that we also use of this fund is itself a strengthening of research and results in a great deal of research being done here again in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e931	The government is on its way to fulfill the promises of Soria Moria, said the Council of State. And the Soria Moria statement says, as far as I know, that the appropriations for universities and colleges should be increased. In that case, too many people seem to have to walk the path of a brutal cut in the basic allocation of institutions in order to achieve those objectives. It's like in the financial position, the government parties have added 20 million. kr on the basic allocation, so the cut was 275 million. kr. My question to the State Council is quite simple: what is now being put back is therefore only one third of what the University of Oslo alone has to endure. What does the Government say to those institutions that in 2007 believed that the 2007 budget was a cease-fire that was not to be continued? And what to say to students and employees at the University of Oslo, who have to cut 205 million for 2008. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e938	I noticed that the University of Oslo has cut so much. It was surprising a lot, and it's a very serious situation. Of course, I will follow up on what is necessary framework conditions for universities. But I would like to make it clear to the representative that the 350 research positions that have been put into universities and colleges are a very good contribution to the basics you need for research. What the Biggest has done in terms of adding to the $20 million. kr, I have not understood was in any way a substitute for a previous cut, but a strengthening of the scholarship positions, which hopefully will strengthen the foundations of universities and colleges.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e945	I think the Council of State has come up with the challenge that many institutions face in relation to the cut that was made last year. I would also like to draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that in 2005 there were three fresh schools that went from being fresh schools to getting a greater professional weight and were recognized as colleges. It was Ansgar Theologische Högskole, Fjellhaug Misionshögskole and the University of Staffeldtsgate. This gave a clear professional profile in the schools. In retrospect, however, it has been shown that they have been penalised financially by making that maneuver. The grant they're now getting is actually lower than what they would have received if they had remained in the freshs. My question to the Council of State is: Do you think it is right that schools that want a heavier professional profile of their offers should be punished through financial allocations?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e952	Strengthening public schools has been an important task for this government. Of course, the funding systems have also been identified in private schools. The representative is quite right about that. What I hope for is that by strengthening public schools, we will be able to give a real offer to more people, that everyone will have the opportunity to learn, regardless of their starting point. There has been the main reason for the Government to strengthen the public schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e959	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e962	Representatives of the Government Parties and, at the latest today, the Prime Minister, on every occasion, the Mantra that the Government complies with the National Transport Plan. That doesn't match reality. It's actually so that for this NTP period there are more than $1 billion missing for the railway. There's 800 million missing. kr to roads. In the Government’s 2008 draft government budget for road investment, the fall in demand in relation to NTP is increasing by 200 million. kr. In the case of railway investments, the lag is increased by approx. One hundred million. kr. In the case of maintenance of the road network, the reduction is increased by 900 million. kr. And with regard to the maintenance of the railway infrastructure, the appropriations are kept nominally constant, resulting in a real decrease in the budget for 2008 with regard to the fulfilment of the national transport plan. The government even budgets that it will increase the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic. But of course that is a consequence of the continuous under-budgeting we see in relation to the real needs. I do not think it is to comply with the national transport plan or is a good solution that the budget underpinning it – and in the future – budgets for more damage and killing in traffic. The government has also cancelled some efficiency measures. They have applied transport charges, such as: CO2 tax and NOx tax, which means that on the one hand it looks as if the transport budget has been increased, but on the other hand the state takes this in. For many, it means a real reduction in the resources allocated to the transport sector, and perhaps especially to public transport, where we find that many bus companies are now experiencing major problems in maintaining the collective service they want and which they initially had for 2007. Representatives of government parties keep saying that this government grants more money than the previous government did, and never fails to stick to it as a yardstick. I don't think it's that much to be proud of -- when it's actually a lag of over 45 billion kroner. We need over NOK 230 billion to get a good and modern tribal road network. Hasn't this government soon got there that it can stand on its own feet and be measured on what it does for itself – and not just in relation to its predecessors – in terms of the needs that are there? I understand that the government is reluctant to compare with the willingness of previous governments to engage in a commercial activity – rather than to deliver the goods themselves. I must also come into an area that we have heard very little about in the debate today. Government parties claim that everyone will be able to access broadband in 2007. There are even several press releases on the website of the Ministry of Innovation, where it says that this government delivers full broadband coverage in 2007. The last thing is that you might want to deliver during 2008. With the appropriations now being used, I still think there will be people in Norway who do not have broadband coverage after 2008 – despite choosing to base a broadband width of 640 kbit/s. Adding 640 kbits/s to it is something like driving Charge on a gravel road. It's not a modern and decent broadband network that gives people what it should be, and that's what most operators use when they call it a decent broadband network. I am convinced that even by the end of 2008 many people have not received broadband. It's because there's not enough money to do it, but it's also because the municipalities have to make available a proportion to access these funds. This government presents itself as so kind and helpful to the local government sector. It is the way that this should be covered by all the funds that the Government claims to have allocated to the local government sector – 21 billion kroner I have heard several people have stood here and said. And you have to compete for the money. One has to compete for the 21 billion DKK in the areas of care for the elderly, child protection, poverty reduction, drug treatment, better school content, improvement of school buildings, childcare, wage-setting, pension settlement, etc. With all these good purposes of spending money, you don't have to be very economical to realize that there's no connection between the Government's promises in everything this money is going to do in all the municipalities. The 21 billion will reach very short. That's probably why we've seen some look-ups over the last few weeks about municipalities that can't offer older people and other important welfare services to their citizens, because this government doesn't follow up on what it's promised.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e983	The bet of the red-green government on kindergartens is historic. From being a good thing for the few, kindergartens have now become an offer to the large majority of young people between one and six years of age. Never have children's courts been built at a higher rate, and for the first time we now see the possibility of full kindergarten coverage. At the end of the year, over 400 municipalities in the country will have full childcare facilities. Many newly-baked parents around the country can sleep well at night – without worrying about whether or not they will have a kindergarten or not. Few municipalities do not reach the goal of full kindergarten coverage in 2007. The problem is the large municipalities of Oslo, Bergen and Stavanger, where the bourgeois politicians have not done their job. Even young children’s parents in these municipalities deserve to be relieved of their concern about whether or not they have a nursery place. The Labour Party expects a bomb job to be done to provide enough nursery places in these cities. The government has done its job by providing funding for the new places. Now it is up to the politicians in these municipalities to turn each stone to get full child-care coverage in place during 2008. For inspiration they can see Trondheim, where full coverage was in place last autumn. Trondheim's starting point was long queues and lack of land. That's why they had to be creative to succeed. The land was put into use — and parks, barns, actual military camps, industrial buildings and health stations. As they have said, we have complied with all the regulations, but have broken all the administrative procedures. No matters have been allowed to stop, no conflicts have been allowed to delay. Good quality in kindergarten is important for the red-green government. We want Norwegian kids to learn numbers, language and social skills from adults who are trained for it. That is why we are focusing on quality development in kindergarten. The new framework plan emphasises this, as well as play, humor, coherence and community. This has also inspired pre-school teachers and, in particular, contributed to raising the quality of kindergartens. Many kindergartens are of high quality and are systematically improving. But the problem is that there are huge differences in quality. This is related to both the economy of kindergarten, manpower and competence. A major challenge is the lack of qualified staff. A good childcare facility depends on a competent and qualified staff. In many places, there are increasing numbers of unskilled people entering educational positions with a derogation. Therefore, in the 2008 budget, the government proposes to increase the number of places of study in the pre-school teacher’s study by 125. But sail if we've had a massive expansion of kindergartens in recent years, we've managed to keep up the share of preschool teachers working in kindergartens. The fact is that never has it worked as many preschool teachers in kindergartens as they do now. Especially in Oslo and Akershus there are many kindergarten managers working on exemption from the education requirement. There is clearly a need to strengthen the work of recruitment. This is why the Ministry of Knowledge presented a strategy for recruiting more pre-school teachers in the summer. An increasing number are applying for the pre-school teacher’s study, and more pre-school teachers want to return to work in kindergartens. Cheaper kindergarten is a central goal for the Stoltenberg government. The maximum price has been reduced from NOK 2 750 to NOK 2 330 today. The nursery places have become 30 pst. cheaper than they were under the government of Bondevik. In the next year's budget, we're spending 400 million on keeping the maximum price down. Lower parental pay is important in order for everyone to have access to kindergarten. Reduction in the maximum price has resulted in several parents want kindergarten for their children. 84 pst. Of all the kids now go to kindergarten, and we look at the kids who are over three years old, is a whole 93 pst. in kindergarten. It is interesting to note that when parents get the option, they choose kindergarten rather than cash support. Within a few years, the cash support has been reduced from NOK 2.9 billion to an estimate for the next year of NOK 1.6 billion. With a further reduction in the maximum price, even more families will choose kindergarten rather than cash support. That's because kindergarten offers a good and important educational offer to the kids, as well as making friends and playmates. In addition, parents can be sure that their children are doing well while their parents are at work. Good, reasonable and accessible kindergartens provide equal opportunities for all young people early in life. This is what the Workers' Party believes is important. That's why we're ever doing the biggest children's haillift, because the kids deserve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1010	Today's government has drawn one winning weight after another. The government is a real lucky pig, with an extra SEK 130 billion to go with. How, then, it is possible that the police, as security factor No. 1 in society, ending with starvation in 2008? Since the presentation of the budget, the Minister of Justice has tried to exonerate the miserable operating budgets with major investments in the police and justice sectors. But it won't last. The Minister of Justice should soon see the seriousness of the situation, and the trust of the police is at stake. Several hours of waiting for police help is perceived as anything but safe, and more and more often we hear of episodes in which people themselves are forced to intervene and act as police. We can't have it like that in Norway, and that's not how Right will have it – neither in Oslo nor in Båtsfjord. As important as the police force is to the overall civil protection, it is completely incomprehensible that the government would not have preferred the police more. In the alternative budget of the Right, an increase of 163 million has been proposed to the police. NOK, where 40 of these would go to Oslo. We believe that the police's ability to take up the fight against crime in the capital is crucial to curb a more negative crime trend elsewhere in Norway. We need big coals at the Police College, but we also need more police now. The new working time regulations have strengthened police staffing problems. In view of this, the Right is both surprised and disappointed that the 2008 budget is chemically free of measures that could increase the police force in the short term. First of all, we want more payroll money to add people in vacant positions. Secondly, we need an offensive senior policy that can stimulate experienced policemen to stand one or more years longer. Thirdly, we need wages to hire civilians for jobs that do not require political involvement. Fourthly, we want scholarship schemes for police students to ensure recruitment for districts with special crew problems. In contrast to the Government, in its alternative budget, the Right has made use of the means to take the necessary action to get a stronger police force. Today, the Minister of Justice has gone beyond admitting that the police will depend on seniors and civilians. But I ask the question about the Minister of Justice then don't understand that these people are also going to have a salary. When the Oslo Police state that they lack 110 jobs next year, it's independent of whether these people go in uniform, or whether they're civilians. The government doesn't know that more money needs to be put on the table if we're going to have a police officer who's gonna be able to solve the problems they're set to solve. In newspaper Norsk Politik nr. On November 4, 2007, there is a major interview with Olav Sønderland, who will resign as a police officer at the turn of the year. His message is clear: ‘The police must continue to deliver quality. Most important in this way is the police meeting with the audience.’ This is a perception Right parts. Safe communities require a visible and present police force capable of actively taking preventive action in kindergartens and schools and with the capacity to move out both in the event of home invasion and in the event of more serious crime. The public expects the police to do both, and here, the Stortinget, through the treatment of police reform and the police report, has so clearly gone. The expectations of the Norwegian police are well along the way created in this room, and so it should be. The police enforce the law and get their budgets from Stortinget. It is quite clear that the government intends to keep the police on the peg in 2008 regarding operations. In conversations with police officers, feedback is the same: this will affect the service to the public, and the prevention work will be harmed. An overall increase has been committed to increasing the focus on prevention and better dialogue between the police and the community. But it's perfectly understandable if the police and the county officials are hesitating to establish police councils, when this creates expectations that the police can't meet. The frustration in the police force is already great, as police accounts do not go up. More tasks than money to solve the problems are finally solved by credibility and contribute to undermining the trust of the police. It's serious. The government will spend the big money on the big tasks, it says, and here the government has an explanation problem: how is it possible that the police are not on the list of major tasks? The social importance of the police is undisputed. At the same time, we have a government that is failing in a situation where the police have growing problems in solving their tasks. So far, the government's contribution has been only talk, and zero dollars to actions that can solve the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1042	It is interesting to follow this debate. Not necessarily because one is informed about a lot of new things, but because one listens to a lot of self-confidence. The country goes down, says it. Never has more money been allocated, says others. No, is that nice? After all, one has everything about. 130 billion more to spend on the 2008 budget than one had on the last Bondevik budget. It's not nice that you have more money to spend. The relevance of such a debate must be to compare the budgets of the parties within the same financial year. Then it may be relevant to talk about whether one has granted more or less than another lot. But seeing three to four years back in time for the amount allocated is very little relevant. The problem with such a show-off debate that we now experience, especially from the red-green ones, is that one little bit looks at the systems at the bottom. They are granted new heights, but do not dare to take a critical debate if it is granted or disseminated in the right way. If, for example: Taking the initiative on renewable energy, it has proved to be a solid bluff in relation to the promises made by the Government in 2006. There is now a lot of boast about how big the fund is, but little attention is paid to whether it actually results in more renewable energy. When we look at reality, we see that the renewable fund triggers almost no project. Mostly put on ice. There were great expectations when one talked about the green certificate market, but when one looks at what kind of policy the government actually presents, it is to get tired of. Most people at least lie in a drawer and sleep there. The government's policy even suggests that one should be sitting on the fence or sleeping in the drawer. State Council Haga has said that if changes are made, which she does not exclude, it will only apply to the new projects that come into force after the change has been made. What does that mean for the power industry? Well, that means no one will make investments today, if they think there will be improvements in the level of support. The government has promised that to a large extent. It has admitted that the policy it put forward was not good enough, but does not mean when the changes come. As long as industry sits and waits for changes to take place, no one will decide to build up force today. It will thus prolong and postpone the generation of power that is sorely needed in this country. The small-scale tax that has been mentioned by several here also shows that the Government is completely lacking in energy policy. I am not surprised that there will be such a tax increase on small power plants, because looking at the Soria Moria statement, one sees that the Government expresses itself positively to micro- and mini-power plants – i.e. power plants that barely contribute – while small-scale power plants were actually left out as a bet area in Soria Moria. Small-scale power plants should not be part of a green certification market. Then I am not surprised that they were taxed extra much, because obviously SV has received a victory here to prevent a person from using much more of Norwegian hydropower. The few who still seek construction end up in endless queues at NVE. The case-handling time is too long, often several years. That makes many people not even bother to take care of themselves. When one then pulls out the calculator and sees if one in spite of everything boasted, has given enough money to follow up his own promises of renewable energy, one sees that that is not the case either. The government boasts that they will allocate up to SEK 30 billion to renewable energy funds by 2012. However, if a fund is to meet the objective of achieving 30 TWh by 2016, a fund is required which is at least three-digit in billions – at least one-third of the ambition level set by the Government. Then the government should soon be honest: either adjust the ambitions in relation to what they intend to grant, or adjust the appropriations in line with the ambitions. Now the power industry and energy consumers are being fooled into thinking that it's a huge bet, but it's going to be with pretty numbers that don't produce results. The Progress Party proposes in the budget an immediate review of the renewable energy support system in order to find the right amount of support that can meet the objectives. We have to increase the fund this year. That is what the Progress Party is proposing. We can't wait, as the government suggests. At the same time, we want to launch a new round of green certificates, preferably with Sweden, which has already introduced it, but preferably with the whole Nordic region. It was just the Nordic Council in Stortinget. Then all the parties very much agreed that one had to bet Nordic, but in the case of green certificates, a lifeguard is to invest a penny abroad in a green certificate market. Instead, the Government introduces its own scheme, which makes all investment disappear out of the country. It can't be like that. The Progress Party also proposes to delegate more of the concession treatment to local staff. It will be in line with food concession treatment today, which makes much more sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1061	Tonight, the country’s crisis centers will once again welcome women and children who are fleeing from violent husbands, or a father who beats. Tonight there are some new victims who will make up the statistics that show that about 9 pst. by Norwegian women between the ages of 20 and 54, there is serious violence in society. The ultimate and most serious consequence of this violence is killing. Through an article series, VG has focused on the massive violence that is taking place behind home's four walls, and the high number of women who have been killed by their partners in the last year. I give the VG quite right: this is crime in its most serious, serious form, crime to be limited and prevented. There are victims who have to be cared for in a completely different way from today. I am pleased that we have a political majority who take this crime seriously. Since we took over, the Storting has adopted the grooming paragraph. In the spring, the counter-violent alarm is being tested, and as a result of this state budget, family violence coordination is being extended in the police, and family violence and assault teams are being established in the main police districts. In 2008, three new children’s homes are established in addition to the two that have opened this autumn. This is how we get a better cross-border offer for children who have been subjected to violence and abuse. In view of this, I must say that Siv Jensen and Jan Arild Ellingsen's chronicle in the UK on Sunday 25 November is a depressing and shocking reading. The main message is that VG must depict the perpetrators of all the women's rapists, not the victims. Not one action – not one – is proposed by the Progress Party to reduce and limit violence. Instead, the Storting and the VG have become more concerned with the rights of the perpetrators than with the victims. To be honest, I had expected more, also by the Progress Party – at least one constructive input into how we can jointly fight this serious threat to the safety of women and children, which is violence and abuse. The same lack of constructiveity seems to me to characterise the statements made by the opposition today on the Justice budget. Instead of taking responsibility for having ended up in a situation where both districts and cities are struggling to occupy police posts because of lack of trained policemen, the Right is trying to make this a matter of resource shortage. The solution of the spring party is repair, after cutting into important appropriations for prevention. This is an expensive prescription for socio-economic purposes, but not least for human costs. The budget for justice is a continuation of the change in course we started in this field when we took over the autumn of 2005. The next year's budget will be increased by approximately DKK 1.9 billion. The greatest promise is for the police. In our first three years of government, we will have opened about 400 new places. The results are already displayed. The housing queue has been halved from June last year to September this year. Let me underline that, contrary to the claims of the Progress Party, the rules on forward release have not been changed since the last government, and the share of early release has not increased. We're also increasing the police budgets again. With this draft budget, we have allocated over half a billion more dollars to the police since we took over, and we have corrected the cut that we expected from the Bondevik government when we took over the government offices. We are in the process of implementing a major DNA reform, and not least we are correcting the lack of well-educated police that occurred after the Bondevik government crashed. In 2003, only 240 students were admitted to the Police College; in 2007 we increased the recording to a record of 432 students, i.e. an increase of almost 200. If the previous government had had our pace of training policemen, we could only have hired nearly 200 more policemen around the police districts last year. In 2005 it was only bystander at Sola Airport. Next year, we will have introduced a security guard at all the rescue bases on the mainland, and we will establish a new one in Florø. Major Paul Paulsen, Head of the 330-square-dron in Bodø, tells NTB that life is saved as a result of the establishment of the guardianship. This is at the heart of our justice policy, a policy that creates security and security. We believe that women and children have the right to a safe life. That is why we have given priority to the fight against violence. We believe that people who travel to land and to water are entitled to the fastest possible rescue response, regardless of which part of the country you live in. Then we don't spend four years in government doing nothing, then we act.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1078	2008 will be the major leap year for the Government. After holding up an increased investment in the municipalities that may be the top tab of this room for several years, we are now going into a situation where you go from having increased – yes – the allocations to the municipalities, to a situation where you choke them and get there that you do not even cover the price and salary increase until next year with the appropriations it is allocated to. Only DKK 1.5 billion in the increase in free income for elderly care and school, yes, that is the reality of the government budget. It's okay to promise gold and green forests, and a lot of people do it. There are many municipalities that have felt cheated, not least in the last few days in the so-called Terra case, where four municipalities feel cheated. But there are probably more municipalities in the quite country who feel tricked by the Government now that they have seen the financial structure of the municipalities facing next year. Therefore, the Progress Party has taken the initiative to strengthen the commitment of the primary municipalities. We want to raise the budget. Therefore, we almost double in relation to the free income of our bet. We're increasing by SEK 1.4 billion in relation to the government's plans, with a stake in the primary municipalities. We do this concretely by strengthening the care of the elderly and by strengthening the schools, which are the most important tasks the municipalities face. We also do this by strengthening the funding mechanism for resource-intensive services. And not least, we are doing what the Government does not do, strangely enough: in a situation where we are missing around NOK 100 billion – perhaps more than that – for the maintenance of public buildings, the Government liquidates the interest compensation scheme for school and church buildings – a totally unacceptable situation and again a breach of promises by the Government, which has held the tab so high and said they should bet on the municipalities. It just lasted until the municipal elections this year, and then a few weeks went by, and then the obvious breach of promises went to the municipalities. This isn't just something the Progress Party says. No, we actually have the Communes' Central Association with us here. KS shares our assessment that with the scheme you run from the Government for the next year in terms of municipalities, you do not cover the increase in wages and prices. I want to start from my own municipality – I come from Harstad. Harstad Municipality is in a situation where there are 127 million missing. NOK – I repeat, SEK 127 million. kr – on next year's budget. It may not be so strange that you are in that situation, because it is, after all, twelve years of red-green government in Harstad that has run that municipal economy completely over the edge. But one of the reasons, perhaps, that the red-greens in the municipality didn't cut to the state budget this year was presented by the Government, was that of course there was a change, and that luckily we got a bourgeois majority in the municipality of Harstad to clean up. It has to collect citizens at regular intervals in order to clean up the municipal economy over the whole country. But some of what the red-greens in Harstad believed in and prided themselves on was the message they had received from the Government about increasing bets on the municipalities, increasing bets on the care of the elderly and the school. And then you see a few weeks after the municipal elections that those promises don't apply anymore. It is about pursuing a predictable economic policy towards municipalities, a policy that can be pursued in the longer term. It is clear that it is totally unbearable for municipalities to experience such a jojo effect from year to year, depending on whether or not there is an inter-valuation or not, and whether or not the Government wants to prioritise the municipalities in the next budget. We need predictable frameworks for the municipalities, but today, unfortunately, only the Progress Party is adding to it in its alternative state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1091	Transport and communication are some of the engines in Norwegian society. Without well-functioning infrastructure, the whole country will not be able to put into service and function properly and satisfactorily. People will move from the districts, and people in the urban areas will be in traffic queues or annoyed by trains that are crowded or not on route. The economy, which depends entirely on the most efficient transport solutions, will suffer great competitive disadvantages. The current government is fulfilling the national transport plan appropriations. In dollars, the total amount of appropriations is over 75 pst. by three budgets. But it is true that not all planned projects are started and implemented. The reason for this is that the projects have become much more expensive as a result of the pressure in the plant industry. A report on OPS projects from TØI was recently submitted. The right-hand side is eager to engage Public Private Cooperation, OPS. I think we might now have to take some time to read the report carefully before we conclude. My maximum preliminary conclusion is that it is difficult to say whether OPS is more expensive or cheaper than normal road construction. Road construction has been speedy in the OPS projects, and it is important for road users, who get a new and safer road in the past. But it is possible to speed up road development even without OPS – still according to the report. The simplest model is that Stortinget grants enough money to build the large projects continuously and makes the most of money, machines and people rationally. With OPS, a large part of the investment budget will be committed in the coming years and the budgets will be paid, inter alia. finished OPS routes and investors behind. Much remains to be done with regard to road safety. Simple measures can save many lives and reduce traffic damage. An effective road safety measure is a physical middle part. It doesn't cost much, but they make the roads considerably safer. A recent survey from Sweden shows that fatal accidents are reduced by 80 pst. In Hedmark and Uppland, there is a frightening trend in the number of fatal accidents. In Hedmark, road traffic killed 18 people in 2006 between January and October in 23 C.E. For Uppland, the corresponding accident rates are 25 killed against 14 in 2006. Our kids are the future. The least they can expect is a safe and secure school route. We have no one to lose. The gloomy accident figures clearly show that we politicians have to take road safety very seriously, which we also want to do. Since I have some time left, I would like to make a little visit to Bård Hoksrud. I understand that he does not like that we boast that we have added to the budget for transport compared to the budget of the government of Bondevik, because it was actually a budget supported by the Progress Party. Now again the Progress Party has found itself. They have added billions to the budget for transport. And who doesn't? But where does the Advancement Party take the money from? Yes, among others. reduces the purchase of passenger services on trains and expects to improve the efficiency of rail passenger services. This will probably result in both the Rørosbanen and the Nordlandsbanen being closed down, and I think there is reason to remind people in the districts of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1106	It is a fact that the defence is heavily underfunded. It happens by means of this Government, as has happened in many previous governments. If the Government’s proposal for the 2008 budget is to be a prior warning of what the forthcoming long-term proposition will be like, there is a serious concern. The Progress Party therefore considers the economic situation of the Defence as critical. Especially in view of large material acquisitions, the situation is difficult. To ease the pressure, therefore, the Advance Party wishes to divide the purchase of new fighter aircraft into two blocks, regardless of the choice of type of fighter aircraft. We think it's both economically and technologically beneficial to do it this way. Technologically, the Defense will be able to assess new fighter aircraft or other means of combat that are being developed towards the acquisition of block two fighter aircraft at a later stage. The progress team therefore sees clear benefits of acquiring a smaller number of fighter aeroplanes as soon as possible, so that overlaps between the existing and the future aeroplane type will be as painless as possible. We see that the operation in the defence is very critical, so we want to increase the appropriations to, among other things. all sectors of defence, together with a total of DKK 2 billion in addition to the government's draft budget – as we have done in our alternative draft budget. The Government’s draft defence budget for 2008 is, in effect, below the budgetary balance for 2007. Compared to the financial assumptions underlying the 2005-2008 Long-term plan, the budget for 2008 is 3.2 pst. below the planned annual average level for the period. In the Government’s 2008 budget proposal, material investment is reduced by 3.7 pst. compared to the 2007 budget, which is EUR 1.9 billion below the 2008 level for which the current long-term plan is based. Accumulated under-coverage of material investments over the long term will amount to approximately DKK 4 billion, resulting in significant delays in the further development and renewal of the defence structure. This goes into the government with open eyes, and the Progress Party believes this is irresponsible. In the government’s proposition, we can read that the Government has assessed further increase in allocations in an extremely critical operating situation beyond the level set for 2008, by re-prioritising investments – investments that the Government itself points to as necessary and that will increase in the coming years. All weapons are ahead of extensive renewal of their material. In the whole long term 2005-2008, material investment has been significantly downgraded. So the government, as they say in the proposition, has chosen to downgrade appropriations for operations to try to maintain the level of investment. We know that the situation in terms of both operation and material investment in defence is highly critical. And this suggests the Government instead of increasing the appropriations, as the Progress Party suggests. The Defence Manager’s study, FS07, and the suspension of the Defence Policy sample point to the significant adverse effects if the current year-round trend continues with reductions in appropriations. The Progress Party will therefore warn against the Government’s 2008 allocation as a basis for the next long-term economic framework, which I also initially pointed out, but which cannot be said too often. The Progress Party wants a defence policy and a defence based on the challenges we face. The challenges will not be reduced, and the threat situation will change. It is therefore important, in our opinion, to have a defence with core tasks on Norwegian soil, and with the capacity to participate in operations elsewhere in the world. I have tried, through my intervention, to highlight just the need for a credible defence, a defence that, in addition to its enthusiasm, also needs a long-term economic foundation, depending on credible, annual appropriations. At the moment, it seems that only the Progress Party is willing to fulfill this.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1125	Norway is an environmentally friendly energy nation, and the aim is to become even more environmentally friendly in the future. We are going to be world leaders in the development of environmentally friendly technologies, so we are going through the entire 2008 budget. The Labour Party has a well-considered, good and feasible climate policy. I'm coming back to this, but first I'm going to take some relationships that, for me, are a foundation in a society where everyone is going to have an opportunity. In this question, some of the bourgeois parties show indifference that is frightening. In the case of labour market measures, all the bourgeois parties, other than the Christian People's Party, agree to cut or redispatch large sums in relation to the Government's proposals. This will affect those who are already striving to get a job that they can manage, not least those who are disabled. I'm proud to belong to a party that stands for everyone to join. Both the daily and trade union allowances are a rift in the eyes of the bourgeois. Here I will praise the Christian People's Party, which, after all, is capable of seeing the individual in society with the same eyes that we red-green do. I hope that all workers, jobseekers and the disabled remember this. Worst is the cuts in the daily allowance for the unemployed and the cuts in the sick pay – from the Progress Party. It's worth noting that the opposition's budgets are cracking in every direction. Examples are food tax, assistance, school hours, parental pay at school, or – even more basic – money use and climate. A top win in Lotto is seen as a greater opportunity than a future bourgeois majority government. In the case of the environment and climate, gas power stations are heavily invested in CO2 management. The government totals 1,125 million. kr for CO2 management and environmentally friendly gas technology. We must say that this is a historic bet and a marked shift in Norwegian policy. Similarly, renewable energy is being invested. Next year, Enova will dispose of a total of approx. $1450 million. NOK, which is approximately 800 million. kr more than it was at most during the Bondevik government – money for good environmental and climate action. A line change is also in the case of the people's heirloom, the hydropower. The government has ensured a continued wide public ownership of our hydropower resources. The previous government produced it as virtually impossible to continue the fall-back scheme. We have exercised political wisdom and won, so that the people will continue to have ownership of the greatest renewable power resources we have. The government has set up a comprehensive north-eastern policy, and in the north there are many environmental challenges we need to take into account. The Arctic temperature is rising twice as fast as in other parts of the world. Therefore, it is important that Norway is a strong participant in the fourth international polar year 2007–08. So here we're going to use 288 million. NOK 26 for projects. The International Polar Year is a major boost for research in the northern regions. Adapting to climate change is not a choice; it is a necessity. We have to assume that the northern regions have moved from a security area to an energy policy centre. The interest in petroleum activities in the Norwegian Sea and the Barents Sea is high and it was therefore important to establish a management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea to be evaluated in 2010. I wonder how the Right Nearly believes that if the bourgeois had fallen, these areas would have been open to petroleum activity. It's a strange statement, when the Left is clear that they could never be part of a government that opens up activity in these areas. They require permanent petroleum-free zones and therefore cut the entire allocation into their budget for seismic surveys.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1154	At the end of October 2007, the oil fund passed NOK 2000 billion. Norway has become a country rich in oil money, a country with large investments in the financial market outside its borders. At the same time, Norway is one of the countries of Europe with the worst road and rail networks within its borders. We're rich in oil money – ever richer. At the same time, we see an ever-increasing decline and an ever-increasing slowdown in road and rail development and maintenance. So the paradox is that the rich country of Norway has an inefficient and uncertain road and rail network, and therefore also an environmentally hostile road and rail network. The challenge is, it's not on the money. It is in the political capacity and will. We have to break out of the budget-based and national transport plan-based coercion that makes investments in roads and railways treated as an annual expenditure. We have to stop treating investments in roads that last for 50 years as a cost spent in one year. We need NOK 230 billion to build an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly main road network. We need NOK 100 billion to modernise, streamline and secure today's rail network. We need to take steps to increase the long-term growth capacity of the economy now! Value creation is hindered and reduced by infrastructure that extends transport time. Value creation is hindered and reduced by infrastructure that increases transport time and costs and that reduces product prices, and the value creation is hindered and reduced when the distance disadvantage of Norway is actually reinforced. Norway has socio-economic space for action that can be used if you want to, and if you dare to go a little different from what the government-led social economists in the Ministry of Finance accept. With the budgetary framework also from the government of Stoltenberg for 2008, it will take 50 years to put in place an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road and rail network in Norway. We can't afford to spend 50 years. The Progress Party believes this should take place within 20 years. The Party considers that this can be done without the use of tolls by the State and without the introduction of road pricing by the State. Therefore, the Progress Party will change the budgetary system – we will have investments in our own multiannual budget. For this reason, the Progress Party will establish an infrastructure fund in which revenue from oil wealth is earmarked for investment in road, rail, collective and broadband development. Therefore, the Progress Party will have stronger State governance on the development of national infrastructure. We want the corridor to expand the main road network between and around the largest cities. For this reason, the Progress Party will have a state-owned road company, which can have clear and predictable funding for extensive and faster road development in Norway with state loans. The proposal was promoted in the Stortinget on 14 November this year. Therefore, the Progress Party will transform the Railway Agency into a state-owned company, which can receive clear and predictable funding with State loans to extend the current railway concept in Norway more extensively and more rapidly. The proposal was promoted in the Stortinget on 21 November this year. Several proposals for renewal come from the Progress Party. There will be no renewal in this area from the Government – if one is to ignore the bill presented by the State Council last Friday, where the Government will open up to finance the operation of buses, trams and trains. No system renewal, but a signal that the drivers have to pay even more! The party notes that some individual representatives from the government parties also want to use oil money earmarked for road and rail. The Progress Party agrees with the Minister for Transport, who, in his business life on 23 November, wrote: ‘It must be permissible to consider that a greater proportion of the oil revenues should be used for road construction without being labeled irresponsible.’ Joined! Actually, it's the other way around. It is irresponsible if we do not invest returns from oil wealth in an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road and rail network in Norway. It will deliberately increase the long-term growth capacity of the economy. We need to focus more on investment than just looking at the cost side. The Progress Party does not just have the political will. We also have the good and the new solutions that can provide an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly road and rail network in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1185	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1188	All day long we have heard that the country is now governed in a completely different direction than when Bondevik II collided with the Progress Party in the previous period. Where the right-hand side focused on tax havens for those who used to have the most, the focus is now on how we can create more fellowship. And we succeed. Also in the case of Defence, the Government follows up by granting NOK 31.5 billion in 2008. Thus, a high level of defence budget is maintained. All the gloomy predictions that there was going to be low defence budgets from the red-green government, where SV is involved, are thus once again made to shame. 98 pst. as a result of the long-term budget. That's good. The opposition is also cracking in all directions. While the Progress Party will increase the Framework Area 8, which is the Defense, by $2 billion, the Right has actually increased by 450 million. kr. The Christian People's Party and the Left have cut 160 million and 221 million respectively. kr in relation to what the Government has proposed and what will be adopted here tonight. Therefore, this year, as last year, we can say that there is reason to say that a bourgeois government would probably want to land around where we have land – a budget we believe to live with. Through this year's defence budget, the government continues the planned change of defence, while continuing to follow up the ambitions of the Soria Moria Declaration for the North and our commitments to the UN and NATO. The defense has again been given control over financial management. Better financial management, including the implementation of the necessary support systems, has provided governance. At the same time, we recognise that there are operational challenges in 2008, and this will require tough priorities. This brings me to the long-term challenge for defence, namely to reconcile the structure of defence with the financial framework. The problem is that there has always been a gap between the original assumptions in the long-term plans and the actual, adopted budgets, regardless of who has been in government. I would like to refer to both the Defence Policy Selection and the Defence Manager's recommendations, which point out that this budget development for Defence will mean a gradual reduction and liquidation of Defence as a result of declining purchasing power. For this reason, I would like to stress the need for a long-term and predictable economic uplift in defence if Norway were to remain free to take action to meet a wide range of challenges both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1203	In the Right's alternative budget, we have prioritised investment in knowledge, research, business and, above all, infrastructure. The parties to the government are depriving these priorities. In the transport sector, the red-green people are busy, even here today, telling us about a historic commitment, and that they meet the NTP frameworks. No, this isn't a bet that can fit in the history books. Rather the opposite. The level of appropriations relative to GDP has fallen in recent years. Nor does the government follow up its own NTP decision. Here, too, there are huge delays after three out of four budgets have been promoted for the Storting. Yes, in fact, there is as much lag in 800 million. NOK 1 billion on the way. This is serious enough, but the most perceptive aspect of transport policy in the last three years is not, however, the lack of follow-up to permits, nor the fact that more and more road projects have not been paid by the State, but by users. No, the most serious thing is the total lack of innovation in the sector. I do not know much disagreement between the government parties in this area as well. In any case, the result is innovation and innovation drying. Let's take a quick look back at when the Right put in government in the previous period. On the road side, we reorganized the state road system and separated the production into a separate company, Mesta. We released 800-900 million. kr on an annual basis. We started OPS projects, which have resulted in a mid-term realisation of large projects in relation to the traditional model. We created the success company Avinor. We restructured the operation of the railway system, separated freight transport and put passenger trains on offer – both of them with great success and for the benefit of users. I could make the list longer. We had made a good start, but we were very close. However, after the government change, the reform and modernisation front in the transport sector has become silent. This also includes the Soria Moria mantra ‘project finance’, which no one in the government parties could fully explain, and which they themselves have explicitly parked, literally. In a world of ever-increasing technological development and new demands for changes and solutions to also make better use of resources, we believe in R & D innovation. It's simply not good enough to stand on the ground resting. This Government has defined itself on a cease-fire with regard to research and higher education. I would argue that it is also on a siding with innovation and innovation in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1219	That health and care are strengthened and that health is the budget winner, we show with the great effort made in the budget. The hospitals have been mentioned before today, and I will therefore bring forward another field of health that is also getting its bet, namely the drug field. The government has presented its escalation plan, which is likely to be discussed more in the health debate. It shows that we're taking the drug problem seriously. Taking all kinds of drugs is necessary. Since there is today a report from the SSB that shows that we are drinking more and more in Norway, we should have good cause for concern. The use of other drugs is also increasing, and we need to take new steps to prevent it. But, then it was all those who already have their problems, and who need community help. I would like to mention some concrete measures in the budget that are targeted and in line with our idea of a strong public commitment for weak groups, of better use of resources and better organisation. It's estimated at 51 million. kr for strengthening the raison d'être. The initiative in the field of intoxication must be carried out in many fields. It is important that we increase treatment capacity in the area of detoxification, better emergency treatment for those who need it, and that we develop good outpatient services. Ten million. kr goes to increased processing capacity within LAR. It will provide an offer for about 100 new patients, which will be a good contribution to drug treatment. Today, people are waiting for treatment. 484 people were expected in 2006, and this number is increasing. They're motivated, they want to do something about their problem, and increased funding gives them the opportunity to get a better offer. I would also like to mention the measures to be taken for children of drug addicts and mentally ill parents. Children of drug addicts are a neglected group. These are the weakest of the weakest, and are definitely our responsibility. We know that over 200,000 children live in families who have problems with alcohol, or have mentally ill parents. These children are at high risk of developing drug problems or mental disorders themselves, and it is therefore good that the red-green government has taken action in this group. The national competence network under the direction of the Southern Hospital will be an important contribution to improving the competence of this group. The five million. kr that have been allocated for purposes aimed at young people, are long-term and will certainly be used well. When I've developed two fields in my post, it's to show that the red-green majority wants to bet on those who don't talk the loudest or the loudest – as children, as young people, and as drug addicts. We'd rather spend the money on them than give taxes. There is solidarity in practice, it is preventing poverty, and it is preventing differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1238	The municipal economy has been raised to a generally higher level after the large injection in 2006. The left is satisfied that the money has followed to some extent all the new assigned and partly earmarked tasks for the municipalities. But in this context, it is also important to mention that tax revenue has contributed to the perhaps greatest economic growth of municipalities in recent years. We see that the municipalities now benefit from the food and tax policies that have been pursued over the last few years. At the same time, municipalities, like the population, are vulnerable to interest rate increases. It is therefore a challenge for the Government to balance the consideration of the local economy against the need for a general, responsible economic policy. The Norwegian economy is now at the boiling point, and Norway’s Bank has announced a more frequent increase in interest rates. For the municipal sector only 1 pst is involved. interest rate increase increased costs of at least 800 million. kr. Despite increased transfers to municipalities, teacher coverage in primary and secondary schools has not increased in recent years. In high school, with a strong student growth, this is serious. The left will therefore strengthen the county economy by 500 million. 2008 kr to ensure enough teachers in higher education in the future. In addition, the Left has found room for continuing the school building interest-reimbursement scheme in 2008. This scheme will benefit both municipalities and counties. We have a great need in this country to build new and fresh school buildings or to restore old and sick barley. It may not be right that the most important resource we have, our children and young people, the 10–13 most important years of their lives should be to stay in such completely worn-out and neglected school facilities, which also have a totally unacceptable indoor climate and thus also provide totally unacceptable working and learning conditions for teachers and students. For the left, school quality is important, and it also refers to the quality of school in the Sami areas of the country. And here, quality is just as important. This I have focused on countless times in this room during these two years – unfortunately for deaf ears. We have very great challenges in the development of teaching materials and textbooks adapted to the Sami knowledge promise. There is not yet a single textbook adapted to the new reform in primary school. This is unworthy. The Government of the Minister of Knowledge must, as soon as possible, ensure that students in the Sami areas of the country who are required to teach in and in Sami that is adapted to the Sami promise of Knowledge are actually given it. The conditions for Sami textbook authors and educational material producers need to be improved. As the situation is today, it is the individual teacher who must himself adapt old, often ancient, learning materials to the new reform. The left takes this in the greatest seriousness and has therefore for next year set of 5 million. kr more for this purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1251	The President will take note of the fact that the regulatory time for the evening meeting is almost over. The President suggests that the meeting continue until the map is ready for processing today. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1254	First of all, I would like to quote what Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen said at the beginning of the financial speech on 5 October 2007 in Stortinget: The biggest challenge of our time is to combat the man-made climate emissions. Our main capital in solving the challenges is knowledge and everyone's work. People are our most important asset.Our values are to shape futures in common and solidarity with each other." – Those were wise words, and that is actually the challenges we are facing. The country is in a particularly positive economic situation with a high economic turnout, and then it is also important to keep the economy in order. This is particularly important for the export industry. There are more in the job – many thousands more. The employment situation is quite unique at the moment. It's under 2 pst. unemployment. I guess you have to go 20-25 years back to find the husband of what's going on today. It's really high economic activity, especially in the central struts. Then it is important to keep track of the use of money. So a trip into transportation. The Government complies with the promises and objectives of the National Transport Plan. This seems to fall the opposition heavily for the chest. They never did this themselves. Why couldn't they? Well, the answer is pretty straightforward. They were most concerned with tax relief for the richest, and with the Advance Party as a supporting party they succeeded. The result was, among other things: low appropriations for transport over several years. This has led to inadequate maintenance of rail, roads and not least within the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. The allocations to ports, fishing ports and fairways have now risen at the NTP level. It's an important and proper bet. Seaway is highway No. 1st@item: inlistbox It is also a political goal to achieve a transfer of goods from road to sea, not just from road to track. Investment in maritime transport infrastructure is a key instrument in achieving this objective, and this government is committed to it. We keep what we have promised, both in the NTP and not least in the Soria Moria Declaration. We'll do it piece by piece. It's about credibility, and that's what we're being measured on. It is important to use the whole country. Then it's important to have good transportation solutions. Good transport solutions are a good framework for housing and business. Finally, as far as the debate is concerned today, I think it has been a pure complaint from the opposition. I think most people in this country are doing well – I said most.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1287	The right has provided an alternative state budget which, in my view, has a significantly better device than the Government’s in the field of business, both in terms of general conditions and in terms of conditions for individual industries. On the right, it seems important to use the rise in the Norwegian economy to invest in the future, so that good times can last longer. Retirement in research continues in the 2008 budget. It is not only on public research and corporate schemes that the Government is behind it. Also in the case of construction and infrastructure, there is a complete stop in this particular sector. We notice this in particular in Bergen, where several important educational buildings are waiting. Odontology education is hard hit, and so is higher education. The government won't even tell us when you expect investment to start. This creates a very difficult situation for this sector in Bergen. As an industrial politician, I am concerned that the government is providing an expansive budget at a time of considerable pressure in the Norwegian economy. It is worrying that the Government is doing little to increase access to labour. That is why it is right when the Right makes a proposal of SEK 1.6 billion less in the budget framework, prioritises proposals that give less pressure on interest rates and exchange rates, and proposes 31 different measures to improve labour supply. This is good business policy. I noticed that the head of the Business Committee, Ola Borten Moe from the Center Party, in a line to the representative Sanner, tried to minimize a reduction of SEK 1.6 billion by putting it against gross domestic product. Well, in this context, most of the numbers are pretty small. This also applies to the allocations that the Government consistently refers to as historical upliftment. I think most people who have made an alternative state budget know that SEK 1.6 billion requires a will for priority. This willingness should also have been demonstrated by the Government in its own budgetary process, which has gone through almost the whole of 2007, to an even greater extent than has been achieved in a budgetary procedure in the Stortinget. On the right, there are a number of other re-priorities regarding the business environment: Tax incentives in Norwegian ownership of Norwegian companies will be reversed. It is a paradox that the Government buys shares in Aker Kværner for reasons of weak private Norwegian ownership, while the Government increases the tax on private ownership. Right suggests session fishing deduction. It should be lacking only when the net pay arrangements for competing shipping have risen to DKK 1.7 billion in the 2008 budget. The government’s negation of the fishing industry is striking. Last week I was at the annual meeting of the North Norway Shipowners’ Association. Even after many enquiries, no one from the government parties had found time to meet the fishermen. At the meeting, there was great frustration that the government had turned the fishing industry into a fiscal balancing post through the NOx tax. This does something to the Right in its alternative state budget. It tells a little bit about the business situation that the government is presenting an orderly maritime strategy on the one day, and then demanding 14 billion kroner in taxes with retroactive effect on the next day. Business policy should become significantly more predictable and long-term than then.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1311	There are good times in the Kingdom, as opposed to what you would think when you presented the picture that parts of the opposition are trying to draw of Norway as a plight of another world. When one heard Jørund Rytman’s description of the situation in Norway earlier in the debate today, it would be thought that Norway belonged to the lower part of the list of the world’s richest country, while the fact is that we belong to the dissident top class. But we have challenges. Like the representative Torbjørn Hansen before me, I would like to point out the lack of labour. The representative Sanner from the Right has also done so. We have different measures to do something about this. The right provides a list that includes both tax relief and whipping, inter alia, by introducing five waiting days for the unemployed before receiving a daily allowance as a means of mobilising the labour force. We have a more comprehensive perspective on what we do to mobilise the labour force. We see that we get more people working by strengthening the qualification of the unemployed. We want to get more people with disabilities of different kinds out in the workplace, and we have reforms aimed at getting more people from social security and benefits to work, in whole or in part. This must be done in a way that gives dignity. We also have labour immigration as an instrument to address labour shortages in Norway. This isn't without dilemmas. We have social dumping as an extensive problem in Norwegian working life. This government is doing something about social dumping. We have an effective action plan with effective measures. We now have a consultation proposal on labour hiring and hiring, with the right of access for elected trustees and the responsibility of the contracting entities. These are measures that the opposition has taken, but which we believe are necessary to ensure that the working life remains a good arena for people to develop in, and not an arena for the looting of labour. We also have major challenges in the field of the working environment, and during this period we will have several pension debates. When, for example: As far as Aker Kværner Stord is concerned, the situation of those who have left since 1998 has been considered. It's actually like that with 60 pst. I have lost my agreed pension at the age of 62, so I have a total of 38 pst. paid out of a disability pension before the age of 62. This is something we need to address, by strengthening the fight for a better working environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1324	The chairman of Askvoll Municipality, who is also the leader of Sogn and Fjordane Arbeidarparte, said on the local radio in Sogn and Fjordane that she has such small resources that she does not have the means to develop the municipality so that one can stop a negative development in the population. In my view, this is evidence that there is no match between the red-green regime's hallelujarop on a lot of money for the municipalities, and what is the real situation around the municipalities. The reality is reflected in what the chairman and leader of Sogn and Fjordane Arbeidarparti say and experience in everyday life. She and other local politicians are not lit with free media speeches. She, like others, feels that the free funds that are promised will be withdrawn before they enter the municipal register. Here's one thing: even the leader of Sogn and Fjordane Arbeidarparti experience the bitter reality, and from the overall media image in my county, she's in good company with her political colleagues from the Red-Green regime. Most people both see and experience the public decay every day. One looks at public buildings and churches, and not least feels it on the body when a car is running on a broken road. Where are the elections?Where are the Prime Minister's fancy hands in the health and care sector?Where is the Minister of Transport going?Kor is the water in the swimming pool?What about the contents of the school? People are expecting and people are waiting for the results of the good election promises, which they see very little of. Now I have a sense that most people look forward to 2009, to get a new political regime and to get speed in the country. People see the well-directed progressive party communities, and through this they are strengthened in the belief that the Progress Party by power will create a better everyday life for most people throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1355	The Labour Party has high targets for combating poverty. I will claim that the struggle for them with at least in society goes like a red thread through the history of the Workers' Party. The fight against poverty is an important issue for the red-green government and the red-green parties in the Stortinget. Poverty measures have increased by DKK 1.6 billion during this government period, and the poverty action plan contains targeted measures that are being continued and strengthened in the 2008 state budget. The next year's rate is 336 million. kr. The government's objective in housing policy is that the financial instruments should contribute to the safe and sound living of all. The active substances are several: housing aid, start-up loans and housing grants are targeted and important instruments in the social housing work. Municipalities shall be able to take advantage of these means in a holistic manner and to facilitate the provision of suitable housing for disadvantaged people on the housing market. Housing is important in the fight against poverty. Through the treatment of the State budget by the Storting, a good budget has become even better. Simplification of the rules will allow more groups of low incomes to obtain an adequate and adequate housing and to live there. In fact, the total increase in appropriations is 30 million. kr. In addition, $25 million. to further strengthen the drug field in municipalities' rural activities and new sites at Tyrili. The State budget is a further strengthening of measures to combat poverty and, in three years’ time, efforts have doubled. There is still a lot of work to be done, but no one should doubt that the Workers' Party is still very concerned about those who have the least.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1366	The district council Halvorsen was earlier today concerned that the debate after the red-green government had come to power had changed its character. There is too little focus in various areas that are currently in focus, not the Right Tax Policy, she thought. Rewrite this means that she believes the broken promises are in focus. Of course it's like this. The only other thing confirmed by the Minister of Finance with his tax assessments was to reveal a philosophy in which dynamics, loss of efficiency and motivation at best disappeared into the rhetoric. The tax screw is turned on, and in one area you're really doing it right, that's on small power plants. There, the Minister of Finance and the Central Party add to something that generally appears to be a mess of small owners of land, entrepreneurs and drivers around Norway, and that may be disastrous for some. It may be appropriate to remind both the Government and this Assembly that it is the basis of life and the personal economic basis of individual people to change the tax assumptions that are now being made. An example can make the drama visible: Think of a million-dollar investment in a small power plant four to five years ago. At that time, the power price was 16-20 kWh. The Bank required a long-term contract, i.e.: in five, ten or fifteen years, which tied the electricity price at this level to finance the project, and the builder himself found it reasonable to protect himself against the risk of falling prices. Now the price is 35-40 kWh. The next year, due to its allowances system and CO2 taxes, it is likely to be even higher. With the government's proposal, this small-scale owner is required to pay rent tax on the basis of the spot price given by the market, according to the tax law § 18-3. Note this: tax is not payable on the actual price received, but on the price offered by the spot market throughout the year. It can easily be twice or more than the actual price received. The tax for this facility is going to be over 100 p.p., and the Minister of Finance has found an effective way to ruin the small-scale power owner. This will effectively scare many away from thinking about investing in small power. Suddenly, securing through long-term contracts has become a red-green risk sport. A review of this issue in revised until spring is poor consolation. If the bank has not then failed the owner, several have in any case been charged with many sleepless nights. This is really constructive district policy! The fact that the centre party is involved in undermining entrepreneurial culture, excluding those who have invested, and those who are thinking of betting, any motivation and to the degrees put a bomb on offensive bet in District Norway, is incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1380	There has been a long and rich debate here today, where the opposition has done its best both to measure black and to try to point out the inconsistency of the government. To that it is said that there are, of course, discussions in the Government. We are three independent parties with three different party programmes, and as the brother of the parties on the Stortinget – I guess I could say everyone with one exception – we're trying to keep what we've written in our programs. We in the government section are some about the big lines. The debate here today has also shown that. We are some about the course change, and it often turns out that the Christian People's Party and the Left are some with us. I'm glad. In many contexts, the right-hand side will have more of what we've proposed. They call our bet, for example. on renewable energy for puzzles. There's actually a doubling of what the Right's own government proposed. This is going to be a stork in the opposition and a dwarf in the position, you ask me. A good example is the rescue service. The only thing the previous government was able to do from the spring of 2002 to the autumn of 2005 was to watch the Sun. The fasitator of our government is that Banak and Bodø are in place, and next year, Ørland, Rygge and Florø – five bases in three years against the previous government's one base in three years. Children's house is also a repeat. This good SV proposal, which we have all joined to 100 pst., is made as if the Government does not deliver. I would like to remind you that no children's home was established under the previous government. Now we've started in Bergen. Hammer's coming in December. In addition, three new children’s homes have been granted a license in 2008. After today's debate, it crystallizes that there is one party left on its own with its monopoly money, the Progress Party. For it becomes monopoly money if it becomes civil cooperation. It has been noted that the Progress Party has not answered the Prime Minister’s question about where they want to cut if they want to go in and government, for example. with Right. I believe that the Right is responsible, that they won't fold an inch and use more than the rule of action, and that this remains true even if the government option falls to the ground. I thought this clarification from the Right was very commendable. I really hope that all the school students and parents have noticed that the Right will actually have cut out the system of free learning. As a good article in the health debate, they take 100 million. kr from health regions. This should be with us further. When viewing such savings, only that you can understand that the Progress Party does not want to see its cut. But I mean that most people have a legitimate claim to get on exactly what priorities the Progress Party wants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1402	The left would stress that participation in the labour market is one of the most important measures for individual citizens to secure themselves and their families against poverty and social exclusion. The left is surprised at the fact that the Government does not place more emphasis on the ability of workers with disabilities to get into work. We have an unused resource in the many people with disabilities that do not get out of work. If we are to succeed in welfare policy, we need more. That is why we need different measures to get more people back to work and to facilitate working life in such a way that as many people as possible can participate. The welfare system of the future will depend on us as a society doing this huge task. But there's a limit to what you can achieve with the line of work. In particular, too many women end up in care after many years of heavy lifting. Then it's usually too late. Better organisation of jobs for these occupational groups will be essential in order to reduce sick leave. It has to happen at a much earlier time than it is today. In the opinion of the Left, the working line of all will not work. The government's proposal for a qualification programme has many good intentions, as we have seen it sketched so far, but it does not take sufficient account of those who are unable to help themselves. Here, the Left believes that a system of civic pay is better – a guaranteed minimum income for all, combined with a personal plan that gives each individual the opportunity to take control of their own lives and get the best possible life. There is a group of people who fall outside social arrangements. This applies in particular to those who are described as homeless. There are today about 5,000 people who do not have a place of residence. Many of them are defined as uninhabitable. Those who are now excluded often have complex and complex problems, and the Left trusts that some of these problems can be addressed by a third sector. The left will therefore specifically strengthen transfers to non-governmental organisations that have the ability to operate lowthreshold services and who know what help to provide. The left wants to help get homeless away from the street and give them a worthy offer. This is a group of people who have little relation to the public auxiliaries. It is therefore important to help them as best they can and as unbureaucratic as possible. The Left proposes in its alternative budget to increase the appropriations of non-governmental organisations to strengthen the measures for the homeless.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1413	Fees, border trade and district policy are three things that are related. In this case, I am thinking of the sky-high fees Norway has, among other things. to alcoholic beverages. According to figures from the association of wine and spirits suppliers, more than 1,100,000 litres of wine, spirits, beer and pages across the Swedish border were transported to Norway. In addition, of course, purchases from other countries, such as the United Kingdom, come from other countries. Denmark, Germany, etc. as well as tax-free trade. For Hedmark County, more wine and spirits are sold to the Nordics in the Swedish wine monopoly than in the Norwegian pole sales, and this negative trend for Norwegian business continues to increase. The reason for this is, of course, that these goods are cheaper on the Swedish side. The figures show that while 168 000 litres were sold at the six pole sales in Hedmark, approximately 194,000 litres – i.e. 26 000 litres more – were sold at Systembolaget’s sale along the Hedmark border to Hedmarkinger. Similarly, it is with the other states bordering Sweden. Border trade is increasing and increasing. Once you are there, of course, you also shop other products that are cheaper, but also goods at the corresponding Norwegian price rental. It's so easy when you're there. To further increase trade, NSB buses go to the new Charlottenberg purchasing centre, for example. The taper is the Norwegian stores, and thus the districts. One store after another disappears, and the population base is weakened. Of course, the fees are not alone in governing this, but an important contributing factor is it. Therefore, the levies on some products should be reduced quite sharply, such as alcohol and nicotine. Another thing I want to include in this post is the bet on transportation. When Norway goes with such a gigantic surplus, there should be no problem in solving at least some of the bottlenecks we have. In an article in the Eastland for a few years ago we could read that it would take 340 years at the pace of the date before rv. 3 in Hedmark would have a good standard. This road is probably not alone in such a time perspective – unfortunately. In the 2005 election campaign, among others, The center party around and promised money to go. In Hedmark, there were, among other things, promised 100 million. kr every year to rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox The central party is now in government. The Central Party has the Minister of Transport. The first financial year came nothing. This year, there'll be a few dollars to rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox Maybe 340 years is needed with this government to solve, among other things. rv. 3s problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1428	The Nordic welfare model has become a concept of state science. Some of the characteristics are fair distribution policies, strong trade unions and a well-developed public sector where welfare services are accessible to all. We have challenges in Norway, as in all other countries. As politicians, we have a special responsibility to address the tasks ahead of us. At the same time, Norway is one of the world’s best countries to live in. We're lucky to be born right here. If I had been able to choose a country to be born in, Norway would have been an unusually good choice. We are high on a number of indicators, including: in the field of health. It's also important to talk about, to remind ourselves of what's done right, and to take care of it. Moreover, if Norwegian politicians cannot convey an optimistic message, which politicians should do so? The State budget for 2008 implies a responsible economic use of money. In line with the rule of action, which adds up to spending a little more money in periods of low economic activity and increasing unemployment and a little less money when we have high economic activity and unemployment is falling, the government adds up to spend around 7 billion kroner less than if you were to follow the rule of action literally. This is a responsible economic policy that stands in stark contrast to the horrors of the ‘Red Danger’, with which we were met in the run-up to the enlargement elections in 2005. I am pleased that the strengthened hospital economy is one of the most important initiatives in the 2008 budget. The hospital budget is actually strengthened by nearly DKK 3.5 billion, distributed between patient treatment and investment in equipment and hospital construction. In addition, specialist health services are strengthened by means of the Roadmap for Mental Health and the Roadmap for the drug field. In the film ‘Sicko’, Michael Moore illustrates how strongly the idea of a public health service – where everyone is going to get the help they need, regardless of personal finances and insurance schemes – stands in all Western countries except the United States. I am pleased that the government is betting on public health – or ‘socialised health’, which right-wing forces are freaking out in the United States. In addition to increased hospital appropriations, the Government has also invested in several other important policy areas, including: climate, well-being in municipalities and transport. I am particularly pleased that the aid to the world's poor is being stepped up further. Being born in Norway obligates. If we're really concerned with fair distribution, we also have to think globally and try to contribute to doing something for those who were born in a country other than our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1443	From Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen and other representatives of the Red-Green Government, including Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, we have heard in the financial debate today about self-criticism from end to end. What this government has got, seen with its own eyes, can hardly be imagined. In the area by region, the promises of Soria Moria have been met — at least partially — and one is on a good path to reach a target. The fact that the representatives of the red-green government are wearing sky posters will probably claim most of the groups in the country. Every day we can read in newspapers from all over the country that the municipalities have to cut off their service offer next year. Newly elected municipal government representatives may wonder what is really going on around the individual municipalities. The reality stands in stark contrast to what we were all tuned in with before the election, about the formidable increase in income of the red-green government for the municipalities. Most people have great problems understanding why the municipal everyday life is so completely different from what was suggested to them before the election. Elder care in many municipalities is missing. TV is constantly showing images where older people are stowed away in spaces that are erased not suitable for the purpose. The proposal of the Progress Party on the statutory standard for the care of the elderly is simply swept away as out of date. Without delegating funds to the care of the elderly, we will probably get similar images from the care of the elderly for a long time yet. The red-green government has far more attention to kindergartens than to the weakest in society, which are the old ones who can no longer take care of themselves. Einar Gerhardsen's concern for those who built the country doesn't seem to be particularly worrying about today's government. Local government budgets are also not large enough to maintain municipal roads, schools and churches. The maturity is great, and it gets worse and worse years a year. Our hospitals are struggling with a great deal of deficit, and many hospitals have old and immature equipment. Many people are in a hospital queue. There are waiting lists to carry out some simple operations, which, in turn, prevent many from returning to work in a reasonable time. At a time when all demand for more labour, such waiting lists should have been abolished for the longest time. Most of the export-oriented industry is located in the districts. Much of this export is on the way from the farms to their markets, in particular our large exports of fish and seafood. Bad roads increase the costs of businesses and result in a decrease in competitiveness. With a surplus on the state budget of over 350 billion dollars in 2008, it is incomprehensible that the government is not now spending a large part of this surplus on the maintenance and development of new infrastructure – an expansion of infrastructure that will make us better equipped to meet the future when the oil age goes to the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1458	We hear from a lot of municipalities that it's kind of economical. This is a situation we have to take seriously. One of the most useful things we can do in this situation is not to spend too much money so that interest rates are affected negatively and new burdens are therefore imposed on municipalities at increased interest costs. Clearly, it is tempting to spend as much money as possible on what we have, but it punishes itself significantly on a later occasion. With the exception of the Progress Party, there is a broad consensus in the Storting to pursue a responsible economic policy. It is also, as has been pointed out in the debate in the past, that in worse times it is necessary to keep the economy in order. This is no less important now as Norwegian economy is doing well. Since the government change of government two years ago, the government has contributed to Municipality-Norway over 21 billion kroner. This is a huge income increase since Erna Solberg crashed the Municipality of Norway. It is important for us to ensure the municipalities good conditions in the future as well. The alternative to a red-green policy for the local economy was served to municipalities from the right from 2001 to 2005. This is an option that Kommune-Norge will not try again. Many politicians on the civil side are constantly calling for more earmarking of money to the Municipality of Norway. This is a way we don't think is right to go. Studies show that municipalities are good at spending money on what is right for their municipality. Kindergartens are built, they are invested in school, and they are invested in the care of the elderly. This is entirely in line with the government's policy. In our opinion, the trust that the municipalities can control the money in their municipality is to strengthen our democratic system. We in the municipal fraction are obviously concerned with the local government economy and want everyone to feel good financially. It is in the municipalities that well-being is created and managed. Where there are imbalances in the income base, this must and must be corrected. Therefore, the setting of the Sørheim Committee is very important in terms of the external issues in the municipalities. When this comes to treatment in Stortinget, it is important that it receives a wide and good treatment. This is a work I look forward to working with. The working party is concerned that municipalities should be good welfare producers. Then both the size of the money bag and the distribution of the content are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1471	The Finance Minister and several red-green politicians seem quite frustrated that their old rhetoric does not fit into the Right Policy. Obviously, several have now discovered that the Right does not propose heavy tax cuts for those who have the most of them, nor does it offer kittens in well-being. On the contrary, the right-wing welfare of those who need it the most, and the tax is lowered for ordinary employees. It is not surprising that the attacks on the Right's tax and welfare policy seem quite confused. Kristin Halvorsen points out that the Right does not remove three years of red-green fiscal austerity during one fiscal year, namely 2008. At the same time, she happily jumps over the fact that SV has now gone out and guaranteed to the Norwegian people that they accept about 15 of the 24 billion with which the Right got lower taxes during the previous period, while Reidar Sandal with a wide pen makes a point that the Right would give tax relief of NOK 30 000 to those who have the most from the previous year, in the next year's state budget. Then it is obvious that the representative of Reidar Sandal’s house has gone past the fact that what the Right does is to remove tax austerity that the Government has promoted for those who invest in small and medium-sized enterprises in Norwegian jobs. There is a difference between removing a tax tightening and proposing large tax reductions – although I am proud that the Right wants a further drop in the tax on wealth – so that we can facilitate small and medium-sized enterprises. But what I really took the floor for was that red-green politicians with the prime minister at the head and several state councils in turn have gone up to the pulpit and made a big point out that the red-green government grants more money than the bourgeois government did to the police, to research, to the environment and for completely different purposes. But hasn't it come to light that over the last three years, there has been an economic growth that has contributed to an increase of DKK 130 billion in tax revenue? Hasn't it been found that over the public budgets 116 billion more have been spent for various public purposes? And you add the population's wealth, it's over 130 billion more spent, precisely because you've had higher tax revenues. It was supposed to be lacking that no more money was allocated for different purposes, when we have had such a adventurous economic growth in this country. What's the big paradox, on the other hand, is that you haven't gotten any more of the money you have at your disposal. That's where you have to be tested, and not that you give more money than what was done three years ago. It was just supposed to be missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1483	It was the post of the representative Hagebakken, the head of the municipal committee, who made me speak. I'm worried that in recent years, the representative Hagebakken has spent too much time running between the propaganda department at Youngstorget and Stortinget, and has had far too little time to travel around Municipality-Norway and experience what the real world is like. For his performance, the newly elected local politicians are now sitting around the country and will choose the areas where they should prioritise and invest the extra money. The truth is that anyone can look up any locality in this country any day and get a description of local government that is sitting in these days trying to find cut-offs that are as limited as possible. But it's hard. Schools are laid down, care for the elderly is cut and, as KS says, the municipal scheme for 2008 actually means lower growth than in the budgets of Erna Solberg. And that's absolutely right. The municipality scheme for 2008 is the second scheme of two years from this government, which represents a real reduction in the free income of municipalities, and it is now beginning to blur. The Minister of Finance can look up page 75 of the national budget and read it for himself. The situation now is that the members of the Government are moving around the country and the beach, promising more and more on behalf of the Municipality of Norway and creating an expectation crisis. It should be time that both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Local Affairs actually stand up with the rapporteurs and say that yes, the municipal structure that we have now had in 2007 and the municipal structure that we provide in 2008 are the ones that need to be changed and made more efficient. If the municipal minister and the finance minister had done that, they would actually have done the tough job they've put the country's local politicians to do, much easier. But what the government is doing is that it should add an extra to this burden by promising only in the last two to three months, on behalf of the Municipality of Norway, more to culture, more to libraries, more to rehabilitation, more to sport, more to the addicts, more to higher social assistance rates, more to the homeless, more to the elderly, more to church buildings, and not least to the ‘best’ school of the world. This creates a situation where the country's newly elected local politicians are left with black spots, and in the long run local democracy is losing.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1490	It is fairly clear both through the debate here and what else we know that this government does not lack money, but lacks the will, the will to invest in what is important for the long-term development of Norway. It is that only in the field of research is presented in the Right Alternative Budget almost 60 pst. more in appropriations than the Government adds. We'll bet 709 million. SEK in addition to research. We bet half a billion, and drained it, more to school and higher education, and in addition we add $20 billion extra to the research fund, which in 2009 will generate an increased return of $1 billion. We've received reports from universities and colleges around the country. At NTNU the chemistry students now have to because of the large cut of 275 million. kr in the current year's budget thank you with half as many hours in the laboratory and half as many lectures. In law and medicine education at the University of Oslo, it is dramatically cut. The languages, those that are small and easy to tear down, but difficult to rebuild, are hit hard. We see the same thing with general teacher training and technology. Earlier in the debate, the Minister of Research and Higher Education said that Regeringa prioritised what the institutions asked for. That's not right. The main request made by the institutions was to correct the large cut in basic appropriations, so that they could conduct long-term and strategic research and higher education. Instead, they get some scholarship holders that they have difficulty in using, simply because the basic allocation has made it not enough guidance capacity. Finally: More, among others. Tore Hagebakken, has expressed in this debate that there has been significant upliftment in the municipal welfare, not least within the school, Anniken Huitfeldt has talked about how the arrows now point up, and that there is no cut in public schools, and a speaker a little since also said that there is now a bet in school. Then I think it is very strange that the Minister of Knowledge, Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell, published a press release on the Ministry's website yesterday saying that the Minister of Knowledge is 'anxious about cutting school'. It must then be that the situation around the municipalities for the school sector is not as rosy as representatives in this room have given the impression of. It is stated in the press release: ‘The Minister of Education says he has received many reports of school closures and cuts in teaching positions.’ In addition, we know that the group size is now increasing for the first time in several years. This should give thought to the representatives of the government parties, who are trying to draw a picture of the reality that is not right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1508	It goes well towards the end, but some posts from the red-green side are worth commenting on. I see that Rolf Terje Klungland has signed up again, so I can take advantage of the opportunity to give him a little visit in view of his own certificate of sitting government – it was not a single mistake to see it. It's done everything perfectly, unlike the previous government, where everything was wrong. As Klungland said when the non-socialist budgetary options were to be described, it was the small corps who were to pay the rich's taxes. Then I almost have to ask the representative of Klungland: why is the red-green government and the majority here the time you can receive return money, by three months? Is it to build up the rich, or is it to build up the poor you do it? And why is it that the kindergarten rates for those who have the worst advice, according to the SSB, have gone up 20 pst. the last year? Is it to build up the poor, or is it to build up the rich that the Government has led a policy that makes this possible? And why is it that the majority of Rolf Terje Klungland here in the Chamber has found it necessary to build up under the housing support in order to raise his head a little bit, after Klungland himself heard in the hearings related to this budget? I think that this billion-dollar debate, which also Klungland likes to take part in, which is that this government is paying so and so many more billions than the previous government, is incredibly stagnant. Look at the figures presented by the Government itself in the budget. Then you'll see that in the 2005 accounts, the Bondevik II government had NOK 650 billion at its disposal – that's what you used to do. Next year, this government has almost NOK 780 billion, which is an increase of NOK 130 billion. So I'm going to ask the representative of Klungland: with NOK 130 billion more, does he think that the poor have got that part of the increase that they deserve?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1515	The government used big words when, on 1 December 2006, presented its Northern Region Strategy in Tromsø. But seductive words have not been followed up by equally seductive budgets. The government has NOK 130 billion more on the piggy bank, but the North Region bet goes on a save flare. The government underestimates the Nordics, who can read both budgets and newspapers. It is not everyday food that Nordly in the lead position boasts of right-wing proposals. This happened on November 16th, when Nordlys supported the increase in Røjre's bet in the north. The editor asked the red-green ones to listen to Right's suggestion. It may not be so surprising that the government will not listen to the Right. But the government should listen to the Nordlys editor. He takes North Norway daily on the pulse and will be able to tell that people in the north have completely different expectations of the North Region Strategy than the Government's performance. We in the Right are following up the Northern Territory Communication submitted by the Bondevik II government in our alternative budget. Right rates where the Government fails its own ambitions. Knowledge was supposed to be the very hub of the North Region bet. But you have to look well and for a long time to find traces of some bets on education and research in the north. The reality is the opposite: the government has cut a total of 35 million. kr at universities and colleges in North Norway. The research effort is not nearing tangling the expectations that have been created. On the right, the Government supports the need for new knowledge to meet the climate challenges and the sustainable use of natural resources in the north. But then the cutting-off of research needs to be characterised as a very bad miscarriage. We have no time to lose in meeting the climate challenges. Right will build more knowledge of the north in the north, and we have to do it now. We propose Five million. kr to maritime Arctic competence development at the University of Tromsø5 million. SEK to a new research fund under the auspices of the Arctic Council where climate, nature and resource management are central10 million. kr to launch a new research programme that sees global energy and climate challenges in the context5 million. kr extra to the MARENO programme The right is also concerned with ensuring the defence presence in the northern regions, and proposes 550 million. kr more to the Defence. In press releases before the elections, red-green representatives spoke hot to strengthen the Coast Guard. Now the opposite happens. According to the Coast Guard Chief, the 2008 budget means that he will have to sail fewer ships with less preparedness as a result. These developments are in stark contrast with the Minister of Fisheries' opinions on stepping up the fight against illegal fishing in the Barents Sea. Nor does the government live up to expectations here. Some people call it black paint, I call it reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1541	Now that we've written our comments and delivered our petitions and it's finally time for Christmas holidays – I'm sorry, I guess I got hold of a manuscript from the Progress Party. The reason why I need to take the floor now at the end is that the representative Gitmark's posts earlier today. I must admit that I am disappointed with the Right Representative from West Agder. It may not be so surprising, as he's a Right-Man, but that's not what disappoints me. What disappoints me is that, together with the Åse Schmidt of the Progress Party, once a year, the representative is out in the media in Agder and complains that the representatives of the Labour Party do not have an impact on local affairs. Well, can a colleague request that such statements also commit? Where are Gitmark's and Schmidt's efforts to change the allocation of research grants to universities? The representatives of the Workers' Party from Agder have already taken the initiative to do something about it. Where is the road that Gitmark from Right promised Hamresand Well yesterday? Where are the appropriations for the new Vågsbygd road, which Gitmark has promised to Kristiansand's inhabitants, and why hasn't even the representative from the West Agder Right been allowed to support that we should get another sleeping car from Kristiansand? Gitmark has to prove that he's doing something soon. In any case, he must stop acting as the dispersal of the opposition. Then why are we cutting back? Yes, because we're going to have people at work. The biggest difference in Norway — that is to the representative of Syversen, by the way — is between those who have work and those who do not. That's why we come up with measures to make people come to work. The kindergarten price we have held at the level it was at last year, and we want to put down the nursery prices. Let's do it in a row. Housing support is the most targeted tool we have to help those who are weakest. I think the Syversen should rather go through their VAT increases, their increases in sweets, for example. drink to children on Saturday night and such things before criticising the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1551	The President will ask that his co-representatives not be referred to as'spradabasser', at least not here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1554	I will not prolong the debate, but there is a need to make mistakes. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 1 for 2007-2008, some errors have occurred. Three typographical errors exist in the proposal for a decision. These are printing errors that have been noted in writing by the Minister of Finance, and have been attached to the setting. Incurrence failed to fix in the proposal for a decision in the configuration. The corrections are as follows: Under Framework Areas 22, IX Value Added Tax for the 2008 Budgetary Mine, on page 159 of the Settings, Section 3(f) shall read as follows: «transmission of services referred to in point (b) and services referred to in point (c) in respect of chargeable rental.» Furthermore, under Framework Area 22, X Excise duties to the State Treasury for the 2008 Budgetary Mine, Base Fee on Fuel Oil, etc., on pages 170 and 171 of the Settings, Section 3, first paragraph, point 15 shall be amended by the expiry of the last sentence. The last correction also applies to Framework Area 22, X Customs Fees for the 2008 Budgetary Mine, on page 180 of the option, where IV is to be amended by the following end of the sentence: ‘ratifications towards the WTO and UNCTAD’ and replaced by ‘notifications’. Then I think the necessary correction should be made, and the President is familiar with the corrections that should be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1574	The corrections made by the rapporteur and the chairperson of the Committee here will form part of the basis for voting, and the errors made in the negotiations of the Committee on Finance have been made. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1-3, and the debate is closed. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1584	Storting goes to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1592	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Finance at the Stockholm meeting on 5 October 2007 on the State and National Budget for 2008 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1602	Case No. 2 applies to the budget-inside. S. I. A total of 56 proposals have been put forward on this subject. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2-41, by Mrs Leirstein on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 42 to 45, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 46-51, by Hans Olav Syversen, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, no. 52–56, from Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 52 to 56, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e1873	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 46-51, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e2173	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 42 to 45, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e2405	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–41, from the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e2857	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to return to the Stortinget, at the latest in the 2008 Revised National Budget, with a concrete and binding progress plan for inner salt/Fauske prison, in particular with regard to the clearance of land.’
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e2872	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e3065	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e3096	The matter concerns budget revenue. S. No 1st@item: inlistbox For this matter, a total of 30 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1, 5, 15 and 27, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 2, 6, 18 and 28, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, No. 3, 7, 19-25 and 29, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 4, 8, 26 and 30, by Lars Sponheim on behalf of the Left. 9-11, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Amendment No. 12, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 13 and 14, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Draft No. 16 and 17, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party In the case of further voting, the President will refer to Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. It appears that once decisions have been taken on the financial envelope for the 23 framework areas into which the budget is divided, the amounts adopted may not be waived in the further examination of the framework areas. Such a decision was taken in the previous case, and as a result, some of the proposed minority proposals that are now available will not be put to the vote and will therefore lapse, because they are based on different framework amounts than those adopted. It concerns the proposals Nos. 1–8, 15–19 and 26–30 in the position to be voted on and relating to Framework Areas 18, 19, 22 and 23. Proposals Nos. 9–14 and 20–25 are frame-independent, so these will be over. The President will then first address voting on the framework-independent minority proposals. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20-25, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e3179	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14, from the right, the Christian party, and the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e3203	There is a vote on proposal No. 12, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to the 2009 government budget with a detailed assessment of whether the forest factor should be further reduced for the 2007 income year in order to compensate for the accidental high tax burden on industry in 2006.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e3218	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-11, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e3248	We're going to vote on the proposal for a decision in the vote, and we're going to start with the framework area 18. There are four minority proposals for this area. That is proposal No. 1 - by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the As the President has explained, these proposals lapse in line with the provisions of paragraph 19 of the Storting Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e3478	The President assumes that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e3492	There are also four minority proposals for Framework Section 19. That is proposal No. 5th motion for a resolution by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 6 by Right, proposal No. 7, from the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 8, from the Left – all of which are now falling away.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e3602	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e3615	We have now reached Framework Area 22, and it is under this area that the Stortinget will adopt the tax and tax rules and their revenue for next year. The framework area is extensive, and we must therefore vote in favour of it. There is a minority amendment No 22 to the framework area. 15) by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 16 and 17, from the Right and Christian People's Party, no. 18, from the Right, No. 19, from the Christian People's Party and No. 26, from the left. These proposals are also obsolete. In the case of Framework Area 22, with the underlying Roman numerals from I to X, the President will refer to some necessary corrections made by the Chair of the Financial Committee during the debate. They are as follows: Under Framework Areas 22, IX Value Added Tax for the 2008 Budgetary Mine, Section 3(f) shall be worded as follows: ‘the provision of services referred to in point (b) and services referred to in point (c) in the case of chargeable renting.’;» Furthermore, under Framework Area 22, X Excise duties to the State Treasury for the 2008 Budgetary Mine, Base Fee on Fuel Oil, etc., Section 3, first paragraph, point 15 shall be amended by the last sentence, ‘The French Republic also includes a trolleybus.’, expires. The last correction also relates to Framework 22 X, and now to Customs duties for the 2008 Budgetary Mine, where Roman IV is to be amended by deleting the words ‘ratifications towards the WTO and UNCTAD’ at the end of the sentence and replaced by the word ‘notifications’.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e9791	The corrections made by the President are then made to the framework area 22. The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e9806	Then the border area of 23 remains. There are also minority proposals here. That is proposal No. 27, by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 28, from the Right, proposal No. 29, from the Christian People's Party, and proposal No. 30, from the left. These proposals are obsolete.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e10231	The President assumes that the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left also here want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-11-27-2.ana.ud2016e10306	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? The meeting has been cancelled.
