ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e76	The representative Arild Stokkan-Grande, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad on sick leave from 24 April onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Alliance on the leave of the representative of Thore A. Nistad on 24 and 25 April to attend the meetings of the Nordic Councils in Copenhagen On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: 1st@item: inlistbox The applications shall be examined immediately and granted.2. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave: For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Modulf AukanFor Uppland County: Morten Ørsal Johansen3. Modulf Aukan and Morten Ørsal Johansen are elected to Lagtinget for the time they meet the representatives May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and Thore A. Nistad respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e114	Modulf Auchan and Morten Ørsal Johansen are present and will take the seat. The representative of Mr Voksdal will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e119	I will, on behalf of Solvency Horne, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and myself, put forward proposals for the review of the adopted protection of the river Åbodal in Saudi.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e124	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e130	In the case of case No. 1 on the agenda – a very short debate is expected, if any, on the matter – the President will propose that we derogate from the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure that voting should take place ‘at the end of today’, and instead vote immediately after case No. 1 has been treated and before the treatment of the interpellations. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e146	No one has asked for the floor. We then go to voting in case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e280	On 6 March, I attended a seminar in the direction of the Norwegian Atlantic Committee with Geir Westgaard, head of the Northern Region Project of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The theme was ‘Energy, Climate and Russia. International driving forces behind the government’s north-eastern policy’. I guess we're all familiar with the fact that this is about sustainable management of natural resources,good environmental policy development of good living conditions and quality of life for those living in the north following our responsibility for safeguarding the rights of indigenous peoples and,not least, energy On a question from the room about why security policy is not an integral part of the strategy, the answer was that it had political reasons. It made me wonder. What are you looking for? Is it the relationship with Russia, or is it the relationship between the red-green government partners? The differing views of the parties on NATO and the Allies are known substances. The relationship with Russia is important, and I am definitely among those who see the importance of further developing good cooperation based on trusting neighbourly relations, not least as a basis for continued stability and security in the north. At the same time, you have to be a realist. Both inside and outside the government machine, recent statements have been made that remind us of this. The Minister of Defence said in Oslo Military Society on 8 January: ‘The Russia of the day appears quite different from the country did in the first decade after the end of the cold war. Today’s Russia is a confident power of energy – which has paid off its foreign debt – where the state once again plays a dominant role in social and business life – and where defence is strengthened, in the wake of strong economic growth. For example, Russia is in the process of modernising a number of its weapon systems.» - So far the Minister of Defense. On 13 February, Sveinung Berg Bentzrød had an article in the Evening Post, where he had, among other things, an article. quoting State Secretary Espen Barth Eide: ‘At the same time, it is important to look at today’s Russia — and its forms of expression from the Russian side — in perspective. It's not about a return to a new cold war. On the other hand, there is talk of Russia – after having been down for many years – being back on the international stage, with demands for influence and respect for its peculiarity. This will be important to us in shaping our policy towards Russia, which must combine cooperation and firmness. It is more important than ever that we continue our policy based on dialogue and concrete cooperation, both multilaterally and bilaterally." This is what Barth Eide says. These are assessments that I share. How one in practical policy gives substance to the combination of cooperation and firmness is what concerns me in the context of today. Ambassador Øyvind Nordsletten visited Oslo Military Society on 26 March. In another interesting talk he also came into this topic. The northern plain said, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘The Russian Government’s policy is based on some key concepts — cooperation, firmness, recognisability, clarity and commitment. The exposure and dialogue line means that we seek cooperation and common solutions where possible, clarity means that we talk openly about all issues, even where we have different views, and recognition means that we should be predictable and principled.’ The fact that matters can be controversial is also evident in the Minister of Foreign Affairs' own speech recently in Bodø, where he, among other things, spoke. said that: ‘We see moves in Russian policies that do not fully reconcile what we expect of a member of the Council of Europe, legitimate questions about respect for the principles of the rule of law, freedom of expression and democracy and respect for human rights’. I can only agree when the minister states that such issues also belong to the broad dialogue with Russia. We get to think that it also means something to the Russians what the Western neighbours think about them. President Putin's article in Le Monde on 28 March of this year may include: I'm trying to interpret it like that. Energy is a key theme of the Northern Region Strategy. Energy is also increasingly identified as an important factor in security policy. An expression of this is that the NATO summit in Riga opened the way for energy security to be included in the organisation’s mandate. The other prime minister has commented on this, believing that it is highly questionable to give a military organisation tasks in the field of energy, since energy should be considered as an economic matter and not being politicised or militarised. In an article in Dagbladet on 12 February this year, Jakub M. Godzimirski from NUPI comments on this. He asks the question of how realistic it is, for example. is that Norway should have close but unpoliticised and market-based energy cooperation in the northern regions at the same time as Russia actively uses energy as an important power policy instrument in relation to former Soviet republics. Both Godzimirski and other commentators point to the imbalance that appears to exist between the content of the emphasis on the north and the global importance of energy and energy security for international security policy. If one includes this perspective in addition to the recognition of Russia's natural repatriation as a major force and the positive in the development of our neighbourhood relationship, it is all the more important to be aware of what one puts in terms of firmness, reliability and predictability on the Norwegian side. I believe that the Foreign Minister agrees with me that NATO membership is fundamental to our security policy anchoring. I join the Defence Minister's words to the National Meeting in People and Defence on February 22nd this year, where she among other things. said: ‘We see that the North will continue to be of great strategic importance. [[...]] This underlines the continued importance of NATO for the stability of the north.’» The question is therefore whether our anchoring in NATO is as trusting as before, because it will be crucial for how our firmness and integrity are perceived by third parties. Both inside and outside the alliance are of course aware that the red-green government among others. consists of a party formed in 1961 in response to the foreign policy of the Workers' Party and all the other parties. In its programme for 2005-2009, SV will have a dramatic redefinition of Norwegian foreign and security policy, where the most radical point is to withdraw Norway from NATO. Anchored in the Soria Moria statement, there has been no change in course so far. Nevertheless, some decisions have been taken by the Government in the direction of a price change that can in the long run be serious. The government's refusal to send special soldiers to South Afghanistan is one example. A contribution to the erosion of alliance solidarity in NATO is serious for a country that, in the absence of EU membership, is all the more dependent on the alliance than many other European countries, not least in the context of the Northern Region policy. To sum up: 1st@item: inlistbox Security stability and long-term, dependable anchoring is a prerequisite for the reliability and firmness we want to put at the bottom of the further development of the positive exposure line with Russia in North.2. The energy dimension in the north updates further clarity in our security policy relationships.3. The heterogeneous relationship of the government parties with NATO makes it all the more mandatory with security stability in order to maintain our external credibility. There is a background for the question of the interpellation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Why is defence and security policy so weak in the Northern Region Strategy of the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e362	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Vallersnes, for addressing the issue of defence and security policy in the northern regions. In my view, defence and security policy is widely referred to in the Northern Region Strategy. I do not accept the premise in his question. It's quite natural with this broad review. There's one of my main points in this article. The Nordgebiet strategy has a holistic, long-term focus on Norwegian policy in the northern regions. The strategy is about looking at issues such as resource management, industrial development, the environment, climate and more traditional foreign policy issues in the context. Our national security is a clue to this thinking. For security policy in 2007, there is much more. It contains far more – and other – dimensions than exclusively defence budgets, military capabilities and winter exercises in the north. That's my second key point. Last month I visited Landsdelskommando Nord-Norway at Reitan near Bodø and received a thorough briefing on the challenges ahead. Officers talked about shipping, illegal fishing, the environment and climate, preparedness and billing operations, as well as a number of similar challenges, as well as the traditional defence assessments included in such a briefing. The admiral spoke of none of the challenges in the north being the "eie" of the Defense alone. They require multi-sectoral involvement and challenge the defence's ability to participate in such cooperation. I will praise the National Part Command for their alertness and ability to read a new time, without neglecting historical experiences. The most important assurance against the development of conflicts is the further building of mutual trust, ties and common interests through close cross-border cooperation. Norway is doing this through an active bilateral diplomacy with Russia and through our anchoring in NATO and our close links with the EU. It's this as engagement policy. No one wants a new cold war, with escalating rhetoric about arms races and ideological fronts. Because we're at a different time. Annual travels about 100,000 Northers and Russians across the border, 3,000 during the cold war. Cooperation and partnership in the fields of business, culture, travel, research and education — yes, friendship and marriage are established. In short, the relationship between Norway and Russia is deepened in all areas. In this perspective, we need to develop our perspective from the time when the fronts were clear and the border closed. Our approach to security — national security, regional security, yes human security — must be adapted to a new era. In the strategy, cooperation with Russia is a key element. But it does not in any way imply that we are dealing uncritically and passively with worrying developments in today's Russia. It's pages that bother us, and I've mentioned that in this room before. The recent brutal behaviour of security forces against peaceful demonstrators is underpinned by a government using more authoritarian methods. It does not strengthen the reputation of Russian democracy. Our line is that through critical, constructive dialogue and close contact, we are further developing the neighbourly relationship with Russia. This may be the most important contribution we can make to democratic development in our neighbouring country – not only through views, attitudes and words, but also through concrete projects, including: civil society. This isn't really new stuff. One of the motives when Thorvald Stoltenberg started Barents cooperation in 1993 was precisely security policy in a broader perspective – yes, just engagement policy. It is true today to say that this took place under President Yeltsin's rule in Russia, and are things we should also remember him for. With the Northern Region Strategy presented in Tromsø on 1 December last year, we also have a strategy for developing Norwegian-Russian cooperation. I have elaborated on this in a foreign policy statement in February. An important objective of the strategy is to facilitate and facilitate cross-border cooperation in the north. In the near future, we will sign an agreement to simplify visa procedures. This and other measures will simplify border crossings, which was the theme of the interpellation on 6 March this year, and I am therefore not going to go into the details of this. I just want to stress that the reduction of barriers to trade between Norway and Russia is also a good safety policy. The measures do not mean that its border and control have become less important. On the contrary, both countries agree that organized border conditions remain of the greatest importance. The garrison in South Varanger and the border commissioner will continue to guarantee that things are as they should be on the Norwegian side. After Norway was given responsibility for the Schengen external border with Russia in the north, several million kroner have also been invested in upgrading border surveillance. It is the common challenges of the new era, such as trafficking in human beings and illegal migration, that warrant this. Good contact with Russia means that we can also work together on today's security policy challenges. We have a broader and deeper cooperation than ever. The good links are conflict prevention and thus safety policy relevant. The exposure line – and let me add: with clarity in the security policy – is therefore the right track. We also follow this line multilaterally. In the long term, isolated Russia can create uncertainty. It is our responsibility to contribute to that not happening. The Interpellant addresses Russia's strengthened economic capacity. Let's not use any of the old reflexes and look at it as something negative. This is a resource, an opportunity, both for business and for stability in Europe. I agree that this growth, as the interpellant points out, has given trends to increased Russian self-confidence and demands for influence on the international arena. We have to deal with that, awake and with knowledge, not least to the north. Russia knows our consistent line as a coastal state, and they can safely assume that we will continue. Russia has gone from minus to plus, giving it great opportunities, but also increasing commitments. We must expect a new dialogue on corporate social responsibility, and this is on the agenda in our contact with the Russians. Increased Russian self-confidence can be a challenge at many levels. We could wish that the trends towards increased diversity in Russia that grew up in the 1990s could continue to live on in a freer and stronger way than what we now see. But it would be irresponsible to want to go back to Russia in the 1990s and the conditions that then prevailed in Russian politics and economy. We have to think in the future about our neighbourhood with Russia. Russian defence is undergoing a modernisation and conversion process. The expenditure of the armed forces has increased in line with the country's strongly improved economy. These developments, together with an increasingly critical Russian line to what they call ‘Western arrogance’, have prompted some to ask if we recognize the contours of a new type of confrontation line from the Russian side. To this I would like to repeat: we are following developments in Russia with an alert eye, with our knowledge and reasoning. The increase in expenditure on the armed forces is broadly consistent with the growth in GDP in the country; the share of the defence budget in GDP is stable. And let us remember: there is a great need for modernisation and reform after all the years when Russian defence – like other state sectors – was given limited resources. At the same time, we must refrain from and warn against any signs of increased emphasis on military instruments rather than political and against signs of disarmament, wherever it comes from. In the Northern Region Strategy, the Government is committed to adapting its own defence to today's challenges. So let me get even a little bit closer to the role of the defense, which is otherwise well mentioned in the strategy. The defence shall have a visible presence in the north. The presence is important to assert Norwegian sovereignty and to safeguard Norwegian interests. The role of defence contributes to predictability and stability and is crucial to our capacity for crisis management. A visible, relevant military presence is part of the normal state in the north. One of the primary tasks of the defence is to ensure a good national decision-making basis through monitoring and intelligence. The challenges in the north show that the Norwegian authorities have an up-to-date picture of our neighbourhoods. The issue of resource and environmental issues concerns civil and military development. Both maritime patrol aircraft, emergency fighter aircraft, the coastal radar chain and seagoing vessels play important roles in updating the situation picture. In the control of fisheries in the northern seas, the Coast Guard and other parts of the Defence play a central role. Cooperation between our coastguard and the Russian regional coastguard is now under development. The aim is to ensure the best possible coordinated management of the control of fisheries. When we detect illegal fishing, this should be followed up consistently. Large parts of the Army's operations have been added to North Norway, and mainly all training is now being given to sheltered teams in the north. Inner Troms is one of the two points of gravity of the Army. In addition, the garrison in South Varanger is one of the Army's highest priority departments. Effective civil-military cooperation is essential in the management of episodes. Defence and civil services, such as the Coast Guard Agency, the police and the main rescue services, have developed a good cooperation on coastal surveillance and preparedness. For many years, there has been close cooperation with allied countries on military activities in the north, through exercises and training. This is what we want. The government is aiming to increase allied participation in military exercises and training in the north, and is working to maintain the interest of allied countries and partners. NATO remains the foremost guarantor of our security. Norway is dependent on allied support if safety challenges should arise also in the north. It is worth recalling this now in advance of NATO's Foreign Minister's meeting in Oslo. Defence-related cooperation between Norway and Russia strengthens mutual trust and the ability to solve common problems and to meet challenges both countries face. The importance of good relations between local and regional authorities — including regional military authorities — is important in case of crisis-like incidents, for which the ‘Cursk’ and ‘Elektron’ cases are examples. The Government's objective is to strengthen bilateral cooperation on preparedness and rescue operations. We are also working to intensify defence-related dialogue with Russia. A few weeks ago, the new annual Norwegian-Russian military cooperation programme was signed. This includes actions such as visits by the commander-in-command of the North Fleet to Norway and Norwegian vessel visits there. The Coast Guard operational budget increased in 2006 and 2007. The remaining parts of the Maritime Defence, other defence and intelligence services are also very much strengthened in budgetary terms. We also come to this point when the Defence Policy Committee will make its recommendations for the autumn, and the Government will focus on this in a new long-term proposition for Defence in spring 2008. Here the challenges in the north will have a central place. At the same time, security and defence policies will always be a policy for the whole country, closely linked to our cooperation with allied countries within the framework of NATO and the UN and with our Nordic and European contacts. This review shows that a modern, adapted and predictable defence and security policy is at the heart of our Northern Territory initiative. The cooperation and exposure line with Russia will continue; it will take place in many areas, not least within Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e437	I thank the Minister for his opening remarks. I think there is a great deal of consensus between him and me and between most of the parties on the importance of engagement and contact and development of neighbourhood relations, also as part of what can be called a newer and broader security policy. From both posts it's obvious that there's a lot in common there. But I noticed that the Minister for Foreign Affairs did not address two of the issues I mentioned in my first post. One is the importance of energy and energy security as a factor in safety policy assessment. There could be different assessments. I mentioned that there had been a debate, and I also allowed myself to point out that there were statements from the prime minister. But I also noticed that the defence policy spokesman in SV Bjørn Jacobsen had a comment on the NATO summit in Riga and energy security into the mandate of the organisation. He feared that other NATO members could push Norway to produce more oil and gas than the country really wanted for environmental reasons, and that it could thus be part of the future threat picture for Norway. The type of assessment also applies. I have also noticed the statement from SV's newly elected Vice-Chairman Bård Vegar Solhjell on 21 February in Dagbladet, where he says: ‘It is precisely in foreign policy that we have made it easier to prove SV’s influence. We received Norway from the United States of America Enduring Freedom, increased assistance to Afghanistan, affected the entire NATO strategy and excluded the stationing of Norwegian forces in the south.’ One has to give the Soljell right. Without government SV, Norway would probably have gone in to send Norwegian special forces to the southern provinces of Afghanistan, where the security situation is most difficult. This tension regarding our anchoring and security stability between the government parties did not comment on the foreign minister. I noticed the leader of the class struggle this morning in the wake of the NATO summit in Oslo, where one at the end says that ‘a divided NATO is far preferable to a militarily upgraded and agreeing with NATO’. There are statements in the leadership position that make me feel, but I also know how close this press agency is to one government party. I had hoped that we too could have been given a clearer opinion on the consensus on the political stability of the security policy of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e453	I now understand where the representative Vallersnes wants. He wants to get into Norwegian domestic policy and keep up with the parties there. I think that's an interesting and exciting debate, but I actually answered the question that the interpellant asked, which was important, it was about the conditions in the north, it was about engagement policy, and it was about anchoring in the security policy. I thought that was my problem. The two questions now raised are of two different categories. The first is a central issue, the importance of energy in security policy and how this plays in the relationship with NATO. There it is the government’s view that it is relevant to the security of countries, for example. how to ensure energy installations, how to think about the safety of energy transport. But I would like to agree with the President-in-Office's view that as a large energy producer and seller/exporter, we should be very careful about thinking about militarisation and politicisation of the sales function. I believe that we have been doing well for many years that we are dealing with this with clear principles about how we sell and sell energy. But for the installation side, it is clear that this is an important topic. The second part of the question is back to what was not the question in the interpellation, but which now emerges as the Right Leading Line here, namely the views of one party in the Government. You can focus on this differently. I want to say that it is historic that today we have a situation where all parties in this process are behind a platform that emphasises NATO as the key element of security policy. It is clear in Soria Moria, it is clear in the government statement, it has been clear in all my foreign policy statements, which are well anchored in the Government. The right also knows that sitting in government means entering with primary positions that then have to be measured against the positions of other parties. I believe that this government over 18 months has shown a consistent line as an ally who has set up far beyond what our peoples should expect, in the most demanding operations. And it's been noticed. The fact that the leader of the class struggle arouses the concern of the representative, Vallersnes, is not surprising either, but one may limit it to the theme it is. Including it in the issue of stability in the security policy in the north and the engagement line with Russia seems to me to be a little off the side of the realities we're dealing with – even though I'm also reading that leader, but I haven't yet jerked it off in today's newspaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e462	I will also stick to the submitted theme. Our security policy will always be linked to the current threat picture, which is again affected by developments both in our neighbourhoods and globally. Security policy is characterised by unpredictable events that can in the short term change both international power and domestic defence, foreign and security policies, not to say neighbourhood policy. But long-term developments will also guide our security policy. Therefore, in 2007, Norwegian security policy contains much more and has far more dimensions than defence budgets, military capabilities and winter exercises, although it is also important. The fall of the wall in 1989, the massacres in Srebrenica in 1995 and the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center in 2001 are examples of unforeseeable events. The major climate change, on the other hand, is part of the long-term changes, along with the major poverty challenges. The threats today are international crime, including trafficking, terrorism, the spread of nuclear waste and global warming, which in turn leads to flood disasters and droughts. Of course, developments over the last 15 years also have implications for our north-eastern policy. We no longer have cold war. We no longer have a wall through Europe. When Stortinget dealt with the Northern Territory Communication in June 2004, a unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee – in the Committee also set up Vallersnes – said in its position: ‘Norway needs to pursue the most comprehensive policy with regard to Russia. Cooperation with North-West Russia is part of more extensive cooperation with Russia.’ And the committee adds, still unanimous: ‘Cooperation must take into account the conflicting views of the two countries in some areas and of others in part competing interests. At the same time, countries also have fundamental common interests in relation to resource and environmental management and economic cooperation, inter alia, because both are large energy producers.’ This is precisely why, and in the light of this setting, cooperation with Russia is a key element of the Northern Region Strategy of the Government. Our policy towards Russia must be pragmatic and cooperative – and results-oriented. An important focus is on regional cooperation, including: on energy issues and resource and environmental management in the Barents Sea. In particular, priority must be given to illegal fishing. We need to use the Presidency period of the Arctic Council to increase the focus on climate change, environmental problems, industrial development and research. We will be active both in the Barents Council and in the Baltic Council, where we also meet Russia. And then, of course, we need to see how we can use the NATO Russia Council, while at the same time making our allies aware of the need for preparedness, monitoring and social security in the northern regions. We have a responsibility to convince NATO of how vulnerable the northern regions are in an ecological and biological context, but also that NATO must continue to play an important role in view of the strategic location of the northern regions. The defence has and must have a visible presence in the north. The changes in defence have in many ways strengthened the military presence, because it is much more concentrated. In particular, the Coast Guard and the other maritime defence must ensure surveillance and intelligence, of course in addition to the work done by the Landsdelskommando Nord-Norway. Like the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I have also been able to see how powerful the Landspart Command is in that very monitoring and how good technology they have. Let me also underline the importance of the allied exercises in North Norway, also in convincing our allies about the strategic importance of this area. Here come British, Poles and Dutch. Yes, some allied countries are actually training winter war in the continent over longer periods of time. Finally, let me also stress that effective civil-military cooperation is becoming increasingly important with the new and expanded security policy challenges we see in the North.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e498	I want to give tribute to the interpellant, who today is lifting into the main hall a very important theme that deserves attention and debate. Now it is certain, as the Foreign Minister says, that defence and security policy is not forgotten in the North. I believe him. The problem, as we see it, is that today's defence is totally under-dimensioned for the tasks facing the nation of Norway. I want to use this post for something as basic as a defence for the Norwegian defence, not least in the light of the Northern Territory bet. Norway is a conservative actor. We do not have aggressive targets, either for our foreign policy or for our security policy. The Norwegian armed forces shall establish stability on the basis of international legality. However, major power crises occur. Our significance can bring conflicts here that have their origins entirely elsewhere on the globe. Nor can we rule out the possibility that major-acquisition crises can occur in our vicinity, by e.g. energy reasons. Norway’s policy of alliance shall be determined to ensure that conflicts of power elsewhere reproduce here, or that crises arise here because of rivalry over our territory and Norwegian raw materials and resources. Alliance diplomacy, on the one hand, plays a central role in Norwegian security policy. On the other hand, little more complicated than getting others obliged to share the accident and suffering they themselves are not affected by. To this end, a small country has to assume that the allies’ self-interests can be remedied in a very concrete manner quickly to Norway. The defence capacity demonstrated every day is the foundation of our diplomacy and our security policy. The dimensioning and device of the Norwegian defence are ideally given by our strategic importance and by our closeness as our distant, but very relevant environment dynamics and instability. If we wanted peace, prosperity and prosperity not only for ourselves, but for all people on earth, we sat down and drew an accurate map of our neighbourhoods, with their current and future use, the geopolitical profile of other actors, demography, economics, probable military capability and future capacity, their political culture and likely development pathways. From all of this we would find a median as the norm for the continuous dimensioning and development of Norwegian defence. This is how it is planned, for example: in Finland. In Norway, we have weak traditions for this, which makes us ambiguous. Few talk so much about peace and really care so little about it. It is an immediate challenge for defence and peace policy to make us better able to develop a robust and sensible defence policy based on the political and strategic realities within which Norwegian society will evolve, and the Norwegian state will deal with it over the next 10-20 years. If we are to succeed, defence policy must be guaranteed the widest possible political and social anchoring. It can best happen by beginning to let the reality of the environment give, more color our political rhetoric than the visions of our culture tend to feed, or the personal ambitions of politics and government are often filled in. The defence is an apparatus to ensure stability in an enormous area of great strategic importance, and it must ensure us effective military major act alliances against another major act. In other words, our own objectives will call for a relatively comprehensive defence. Given the environment, peace ambitions and stability needs, the Norwegian State will have to take out more protection from Norwegian society than usual for European small countries. We must have a balanced defence. Given the activities of Norwegian continental shelf, traffic through Norwegian economic zone and seabed installations, the Norwegian Navy should be present throughout the Norwegian sea domain and airspace should be regularly flown over. Norwegian air and sea powers, frigates, submarines and aircraft, must in a crisis form a deterrent to challenge. North Norway is the most exposed part of the country to major activization. Unfortunately, we record that today's army is far too small for the tasks facing the Norwegian country power. Finally, in Norway we live by exporting things that can only be created here, geographically. In other words, our incomes, more than other countries, depend on the policies at all times, international law, trade policy regimes, etc. Our revenues and wealth depend on the global conditions of power. Not least because of this, Norwegian defence becomes an investment, a cost of income acquisition and no burden on the value creation of Norwegian society at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e517	From the blessed time of King Ottar, in the future also of the Sami people, it has our trade and vices in the North Callot: grain and three-loads of fish. That's how it was for hundreds of years. Then came the Danish era, which put a heavy damper on this far beyond. Blossoming was also. Then, of course, came the cold war. What we're doing today is rebuilding this, this that people up there through ingenuity and progress got to. Now we're running and testing, without getting centralized solutions, which can get bad. Now we drive and try to listen to what's going on in the north. What could there be of initiatives coming from the north under which we can support them? This makes this government in an incredibly good way. We've learned from the failures we did before. We're not going to put any burden on people. We're going to listen, and we're going to see what we can do that works. The reason why I'm putting some emphasis on this is because it's co-operative across the four borders – also into Sápmi – that has to happen, that's what's going to do really good when it comes to the presence on its own territory. It is also an important part of the expanded security approach that we use very often in development policy, but that can also be used by ourselves. We have not come to terms with this work. I don't think it's here in Stortinget or the Government that we're going to invent this powder. For a long time now, with the blame and innocence of local initiatives, there is a need to listen and support the good local initiatives that are coming. We know that Norway's security policy has been good at having self-imposed restrictions. We've learned from the Finns. We are also clear when it comes to the Russians. They've never been in doubt about what we've meant. Therefore, Russia knows that we are persuasive, even though in recent times they have tried to challenge us in different ways if we really meant what we saw lead us. It is clear to this government. We've been on the policies of the long lines. Rusarane feels reasonably safe about it. And then I see that there's a signal that we should stop helping the Russians in the environmental field. We should end with yours, we should end with a date, because now Russia has become so strong. Of course, this is totally wrong. We need to back up on the Russians. We must help Russia to build a democracy. We should not forget that the greatest cave we've ever had in our history is that we found democracy before we found oil. That's not the case everywhere. Therefore wear them. It is our duty to support all the democratic, good developments in Russia. And we're going to keep going on with that. It likes the Russians, and it's going to be the same in the future. It may seem that the interpellant thinks it's not over. He is. The NATO billions are gone, the COB sites are gone. Where is NATO, I use to ask when I travel around the country and discuss. If there's a place NATO is, of course it's in Iceland. North Atlantic, bye-bye! The Danes were first. We're going to sign a good deal with Iceland. We'll sort things out in the North. I think we're going to see security policy images ahead where the different Nordic countries – whether they're in or outside NATO – will establish even better cooperation in the Nordic region, including security policy. We're going to get more of them with us. We have to be careful that we drag even more people who are interested in the north. For Danish people, the way to Iceland via the Faroe Islands is a good way uphill towards Greenland. We need even more people who are involved in the Northern Region policy. When it comes to energy, as we have been talking about here, I have not said that we should militarize energy policy, but I have said that we should be aware of what is happening. Hillary Clinton says it straight out: «We have to stop US dependency on foreign oil.» If one goes on to say, as other commentators have done, that we have to end up with expensive wars to save oil. There is no doubt that when one of NATO tries to get an Article 5 in this area, it is precisely to ensure that oil producers/energy producers are on duty. We have always signaled that we should be senior suppliers to Europe. We're going to keep doing that, but we're also going to think that some people might try to use some of the instruments that we don't really like, and maybe try to force us to produce more oil and gas than we like, because of environmental considerations. And then I see that the time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e540	Security policy in the north is a very important topic. There are many fine words in the Soria Moria statement that the red-green government sees the northern regions as Norway's main strategic field of activity in the coming years. We have noticed that the Minister of Defence has promised that the defence presence in North Norway will be maintained at a high level and that coastal preparedness will be given high priority. When presenting the Northern Region Strategy of the Government in Tromsø, this was repeated. But, as the interpellant has underlined, it has become remarkably quiet around this theme of government teams. There were great expectations. But where did the actual results come from? We have recently experienced examples of the government running from entirely concrete promises in the Northern Region Strategy, and in the Christian People's Party we are afraid that military presence will suffer the same fate. Norway is facing a number of actual and potential safety policy challenges in the major Norwegian seas in the north. Both Norway's objective of sustainable management of living resources and our petroleum activities can pose challenges that can have a security policy character. The lack of international acceptance for Norwegian jurisdiction in the fishing protection zone, the unexplained dividing line with Russia and the fact that the northern regions still have a high military strategic importance for Russia are factors in this respect. A stable development in the north based on a consistent and predictable Norwegian policy in the area and constructive cooperation both with Russia and with our allied partner countries are therefore central objectives for the country. Defence is one of Norway’s main tools for achieving this objective through its ability to monitor, exercise sovereignty and exercise authority. In 2005, Prime Minister Bondevik met President Putin in Moscow. Here the north was an important theme, and cooperation on oil and gas in the north came high on the agenda. A strategic partnership was agreed, including: Norwegian participation on Russian pedestal was a main theme. Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre expressed too much optimism about the solution to the divisional problem early in the new period of government. So you can ask, how's it going? We can see that it is currently such that the red-green government is struggling with relations with Russia. Optimism has been replaced by pessimism both in the case of Norwegian participation on Russian pessimism and in the case of part-line negotiations. We have a great deal to do with defining our own agenda, and for Norway it becomes very important to be patient. We must continue to work to develop mutual trust and cooperation with Russia, to show firmness in ongoing negotiations, to exercise a credible, consistent and predictable authority in the north and to seek the support of our partners. Norway’s position as a large and credible energy exporter increases the international importance of Norway and our neighbourhoods. It is therefore essential that we have a long-term policy that ensures stable energy supplies and safe transport routes. Therefore, the defence must be more than at present directed towards enforcing sovereignty and ensuring stability in our marine areas. If Norway is serious about the bet in the north, it must be signalled by a visible military presence. In the Christian People's Party, we are concerned that the defence's presence in the north should be clear and predictable. There is no doubt that Norway will assert its interests, and therefore the defence must be part of the daily picture in the north. Permanent presence is important in order to manage situations quickly and efficiently and to avoid movement of forces. Moving may result in an unintended escalation of a situation. In order to deal with critical situations in the north quickly and efficiently, a necessary command structure in the part of the country must be provided. The crisis management command for the northern areas of Retan plays a central role in this context, and the Landsdelskommando Nord-Norway has the competence to take on more tasks. If the North Sea Strategy is to have a real content, the presence of a command in the north with the necessary powers and capabilities is a prerequisite. We are eagerly waiting for the Defense Study 07 from the Chief of Defense and the conclusions of the Inter-Political Defence Committee. In the meantime, there is no doubt that the Christian People's Party will have a clear and predictable military presence in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e561	The Central Party believes that our security is best ensured through good international cooperation – further developed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs through his contribution to engagement policy today – and through good interaction with our neighbouring countries. The Northern Region state that the Government has put on the agenda is a good example of that. The Defence Budget has a marked re-priority to strengthen operational activity in the North and to strengthen efforts in UN operations and NATO’s Afghanistan exposure. The centre party wants a modern defence adapted to new security challenges. New and more complex threats increase the need for a flexible defence capable of dealing with a wide range of tasks. Coastal preparedness shall be given higher priority than today and the role of the defence in environmental monitoring and maritime rescue shall be strengthened. The defence must be more than at present directed towards managing sovereignty and ensuring stability in our areas, especially in the north. As mentioned in the debate, the government in the north sees Norway as Norway’s main strategic area of activity. It is therefore important and right that the presence of the defence should be maintained at a high level in North Norway, that coastal preparedness should be given higher priority than today, and that the role of the defence in relation to environmental monitoring, resource control, preparedness and maritime rescue work should be strengthened. All in all, this year's government budget has dropped about 270 million. kr for concrete north-eastern actions. The measures concern, inter alia: the follow-up to the Barents Sea Management Plan, increased presence of the Coast Guard and various cooperation actions with our eastern neighbours, Russia. We're increasing the Coast Guard's sailing day, we're getting more operational in the north by a massive increase in Army budgets, and new wings on the Orion planes will make them more robust, so they can make the important monitoring task they have in the North, even better. This shows that the government has a budget that means we're serious about our Northern Territory bet. It is important that Nordic cooperation on security, preparedness and rescue issues is strengthened. Cooperation and better coordination between the Nordic countries in these areas will provide us with better services, as well as saving in the budgets. The interpellant takes up relations with Russia. The Norwegian-Russian border is the only border of Russia where there has been no war between two neighbouring countries. The only time war hit the area was during World War II. Russian commentators have shown that there is a strengthening of the Defence in North Norway. Just as little as we get worried when we run over the Kola Peninsula and see the military capacity of a different kind – of a significant scale, but we have to admit that it is significantly reduced in recent years – Russian teams should be concerned about the presence of our forces in the north. We are concerned with our ability to control and increase sovereignty in a region where activity in many areas is rapidly increasing, with the requirements it sets for presence and monitoring. In practice, we cannot see that it should be problematic either. On the contrary, it is our wish that we should be able to facilitate possible Russian participation. Russian observers were also invited to the recent Cold Response exercise. Let me finally try to sum up. We're facing an initial bet in the northern regions. We invite to extensive cooperation and dialogue, in conjunction with a sober commitment to the Defence. This indicates that we are clearly present in our North Region bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e582	A new geopolitical landscape is emerging in the northern regions. Understanding changes in the cooling water will be crucial to making use of the opportunities and mastering the challenges we face in these areas. During the Cold War, the focus was on super-macrificalization and one, existential threat. Today, we are facing a significantly more complex picture. Central Keywords are controversial marine areas, vulnerable fisheries management, pressures on continental shelf resources, energy security and accelerating climate change. These cause ice melting that covers new sea areas. This may open new opportunities related to maritime transport, resource use and military use. Not only opportunities, but also new security policy challenges can result. I would particularly like to point out our neighbourhood with the Russian Federation, a very important bilateral relationship in the northern regions. Russia seems to be working intently to recover old status as a major force also in the military field. They are well assisted here by large revenues from gas exports. At the same time, it is important to remember that the Russian upgrading begins from a low level, when Russian forces were in severe decline after the dissolution of the Soviet Union. The upgrading that takes place on the Russian side can therefore be seen as natural from the position Russia is in the process of resuming as a major power. It cannot be excluded that upgrading can also have regional side effects, including: in the northern regions. The Left believes that Norway's relationship with Russia should be based on cooperation, firmness and clarity. We should initially regard Russia as a partner to whom great opportunities are attached and be careful to draw out old enemy images. At the same time, we should show the necessary firmness. A military presence and our alliance are important elements here. Furthermore, we should let the Russians understand that if they want to act as a major force in the northern regions, this also leads to a responsibility. They should contribute to orderly conditions based on common driving rules, reciprocity and predictability. This will be in our common interest. The left considers that Norway should invest in a strengthened military presence in the northern regions. This shall indicate that Norwegian sovereignty and monitoring of the North Sea resources will be effectively followed up. This requires that the Coast Guard be given the necessary resources and that air surveillance be sufficiently effective. On land too, military presence should be strengthened. The extent of our military presence should be adapted in order to show the necessary firmness to Russia. However, the overall objective should be to maintain the northern regions as a low-voltage area. The left shares here the government's vision of making the Barents Sea a cooperation sea. Finally, I would like to stress that the Left sees it as crucial that we have as many partners as possible in the North. The more countries that are woven into different patterns of cooperation, the greater the possibility of maintaining low voltage in the region. More specifically, I believe that we should further anchor the Northern Region policy in the Arctic Council, where the United States, Canada, Russia and the Nordic countries are involved. In addition, we should continue to invest in Barents' cooperation, Baltic Sea cooperation, Nordic cooperation and the EU's northern dimension.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e604	In its interpellation with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the representative Vallersnes suggests that the Northern Territory Strategy of the Government can evolve to become a dangerous seas in unclean waters, and that defence and security policies are unclear and weakly present in the north. What is the background to such a claim is difficult to understand. But there is reason to believe that there is a desire for political games behind it rather than a real concern for the security and defence challenges we face in the North. We also confirmed this after the representative’s last post. The Soria Moria Declaration states that the main lines of Norwegian security policy are fixed, including NATO membership. The northern regions are one of the main strategic areas of the Government. The Nordic regions have gone from being a safety area to becoming an energy policy centre and area for major environmental policy challenges. Norwegian economic, environmental and security policy interests in the north shall be given high priority. We must strengthen the presence and sovereignty of the defence in the north, including the defence's support for civil protection and resource control. This has also been followed up by the Government in practice by: Strengthening the Coast Guard operational budget in both 2006 and 2007 increased flight hours for the Orion patrol aircraft reinforcement of the E Service Weighting that the Maritime Defense shall have a greater number of days of navigation in the north increasing the number of soldiers in the Army, where the main part is due to internal Tromsalliert presence etc. There has been broad political agreement on the North Defence Initiative and on the priorities we have taken in budgetary terms in the Defence Committee, which has also been agreed by the Right. During the Cold War, the northern regions were a potential marching area for a possible superpower conflict and important in classical military strategic significance. The good news is that it's no longer like this. The region today appears to be stable and peaceful, with cooperation at the public, economic and political level marking the agenda. But neither should we be uncritical of all the developments in today's Russia. We now see a Russia that appears quite different from the country did in the first decade after the end of the cold war. Russia has been given a new economic freedom, and we also see a renewed emphasis on defence and, in particular, modernisation of the strategic forces. The development we see in Russia is not a direct threat, but we see that the northern regions will still be of great strategic importance to Russia. This underlines the continued importance of NATO for stability in the north. This also underlines the importance of Norway continuing to cooperate with Russia on the defence side, both in the NATO-Russia Council and bilaterally. The government will strengthen the military presence in the north, not because it per. Today, there is an increased threat to Norway, not to contribute to the increased militarisation of the region, but because we as a state want to send an important political signal that we will take care of our long-term national interests and our international obligations. There is therefore no basis for claiming that defence and security policy is weak in the Northern Region policy of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e647	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government indicates that the northern regions will be the government's field of activity, including in terms of military presence. In practice, it has been shown that the opposite has occurred, among others. it has been found that from 2004 to 2006, the number of helicopter floats in the Coast Guard was reduced by 50 pst. The operation of the Coast Guard is essential to maintain inter alia: Our sovereignty is precisely in the northern regions. At the same time, patrol days with vessels were reduced by nearly 20 p.m. This is in addition to the fact that the Naval Defence boats generally patrol less in the northern areas. This doesn't much remind you of the presence in the northern regions. On the other hand, this is a sharp reduction in our sovereignty and a clear sign of a small firm and long-term security and foreign policy. Such a weak attitude towards sovereignty is also making defence tasks more difficult. It makes it problematic for both soldiers and people to interpret what the Government's view of Norwegian sovereignty and presence is actually. Russia, on the other hand, has made repeated assurances that they are a factor of power that must be taken into account in its assessments of resource allocation and sharing lines in the northern regions. Norwegian security interests are directly affected by the potential pollution hazard associated with current and former military activity in North-West Russia. This also applies to Russian nuclear power stations. Increased oil and gas extraction in the Barents region and extensive coastal transport of oil increase the risk of pollution. In addition, there are huge environmental problems on the Russian side. The needs and emergency situation of the overall defence indicate a strong presence in Finnmark. In order to create endurance in oil protection equipment and to oppose possible actions aimed at oil installations, the Progress Party believes it would be natural to set up a total defence base in Finnmark. In the event of a crisis or disaster, it may be of crucial importance. It can be mentioned that in the event of an oil disaster in Spain where a vessel of 77 000 tonnes sank, 16 000 soldiers from the Spanish defence and also civilian organisations were mobilized. This says a lot about the need, especially when we know that the vessels that go along the Norwegian coast are much bigger. But with the size and capacity of the Defense today, especially in Finnmark, and with the readiness we have, an accident, a disaster, an estimate or an attack could have disastrous consequences. If the defense is to be able to quickly make resources available to help solve such tasks, the defence presence in Finnmark must be there, which it is absolutely not today. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the Northern Region Strategy of the Government has been delayed. It is a political requirement and an objective of a more economic rational operation in Defence. Therefore, the need for greater geographical concentration of defence activities to a limited number of main areas divided by parts of the country and regions is also reinforced for the part of Finnmark. Finally, I would like to ask the Council of State why the Government is following up so poorly on its own statement on bets in the North with regard to military presence, especially in Finnmark. And how can the Council of State and the Government ensure better coordination of Norwegian security and foreign policy so that this could affect the presence and activity of the Defence in the northern regions?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e662	I just allow myself a few rather few marginal remarks. I noticed that the representative of Sahl said that it was probably about to break down a certain disappointment with the government's Northern Territory bet. He's probably right in that, at least it's my impression when we see some of the press releases. But at the same time, I want to say that in many ways I think it's a little unfair, taking into account the challenges we're facing. I think many of them have received a useful answer in many ways. The reason why it has become so is probably because the government, when it was going to present its north-eastern message, took a hard time, took off, when it was about to sell it in. Their problem was that they wanted to make it so that the North Zone bet was something they had invented at Soria Moria. Everybody knows it's not. We all know that there's a pretty good connection between what this government is doing and what it did before. I believe in many ways that much of the disappointment problem will come in handy if the government stops seeing it so that Soria Moria was the starting point. When it comes to the defense, I don't have much to say except to observe one thing, and that's that there's forming some disagreement about the scope of the defense. The disagreement is not large at present. The difference between the Right and the Government was just under 400 million. kr for the current year. But I just want to remind you that there are still no new measures to be notified in the north, while the defence budget is being reduced altogether. It can take a little while, but not in the long run. That's why it actually looks like the government is building a certain height of fall in this area, and nothing is as fascinating as seeing politicians build height of fall. As far as alliance policy is concerned, however, I think that the Foreign Minister could address this considerably more than he did, because here is a main problem that means that we have to go beyond the usual formulations, which he served himself by. The problem is this: are our allies sufficiently interested in the North Region issues and are they sufficient on board the North Region issues? I don't want to make all the world out of the fact that some of our allies held meetings on Svalbard policy without us being invited as close to allies. But it's a message that getting our allies involved in our issues is a major challenge. So it was not addressed in the Foreign Minister’s reply, and this was one of Vallersnes’ main points. It is not the case at all that this is a question raised for domestic policy reasons, as it was suggested. On the contrary, it was raised because this is a problem that we have to address. One of the most exciting issues here is, in fact, the place an EU issue will have in our north-eastern policy. Here lies in many ways the fundamental anchoring problem. I am aware that we now have the same problem as we had under the previous government, that it is not possible to move the membership issue itself. But I think it is important that we remain open by being willing to discuss the challenges and opportunities that EU membership could provide, even if we cannot take the operational consequences of it. We did it in the previous government, and I hope that the sitting government will follow the same line. Then to Russia. I'll stick to one thing. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is important to be clear in relation to Russia. I also agree that I think it would be very wrong if we now perceive it so that we are back to the times as they were before. Much good has happened, but there is reason to be aware. But speaking clearly is also important in the interests of alliance policy. We now have an inaugural debate on the so-called missile shield, where there may be a lot of counter-conceptions about it developing, but one of the counter-conceptions that doesn't hold is the Russian counter-conception, and it's getting stuck. I had hoped and believed that the government would be clear in that question, said strongly from the fact that now the Russians are on wild roads in their argument, but it was not said much. This could perhaps be a never-ending contribution to alliance construction, because some of our allies would appreciate if this was said.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e675	I am one of the representatives who in 2004 was active with and discussed the Bondevik government’s announcement of the Northern Territories. It was said from this pulpit at the time that it was a puzzled document. I will not elaborate on that further, but it is clear that there were expectations in the air when the government of Stoltenberg presented its overall strategy for the northern regions in December 2006. We who grew up in the shadow of nuclear bombings on Novaja Semlya and the rhetoric of the Cold War are deeply grateful that we have a situation today where we are now talking about cooperation, cooperation and new developments in the North. The government has said that we should promote a new policy for the north, defined within North Norway and the large seas, including Svalbard. In this way, the Stoltenberg government links domestic policy with foreign policy. December 2006 is considered to be a starting point for a systematic and long-term process, an invitation from the authorities to a comprehensive effort at national and regional level, which, together with the education and research communities and the business community, becomes practitioners and actors in the North Region initiative. To see the full picture of what is now happening in the north, we need to include the set of measures that Russia is putting into action in its northern regions. This is quite parallel to the Norwegian initiatives, particularly in the social and economic fields. Russia is a neighbour with whom we have never been in war. Russia is today a partner, a co-manager of the Barents Sea, a co-manager in the large seas, and a political power to which it is a pleasure. At least it's a completely different situation than it was in the 1960s. The positive transition we have seen in South Varanger, for example, can in many areas be attributed to the opening of the Norwegian Russian border. It has evolved from a transit economy to more robust interaction. It has recently been surveyed nearly 80 Norwegian business start-ups in North-West Russia with approximately 1 000 persons employed. In the Churches, only the port-related activity against Russia represents nearly 300 annual works and DKK 1 billion on the market. It's a reality so far from what we experienced, we who, as I said, lived in the shadow of the nuclear bombs on Novaja Semlya and the rhetoric of the Cold War. Development in the north creates a new arena for Norwegian foreign policy. It is clear that the Labour Party wants to use it to promote Norwegian vision and priorities, but also to create relations between the countries of the north. Through a clear presence, civil and military, Norway will help to assert our sovereignty. Through activity, we're going to make our commitment visible and take care of our interests in the north. Through interaction, we will find solutions in controversial areas. It is a mistake when the interpellant claims that the defence and security policy is weakly present in the Northern Region of Regiringa. Norwegian security policy in the Barents Sea is involved in ensuring the enforcement of international law and conventions, so that no nation can accommodate it. Norway shall be consistent and predictable in its enforcement. To achieve this, monitoring is required and, as has been said so many times today, presence is required. Our position in the north shall not be guaranteed by military power, but by strengthening political, diplomatic work, through cooperation and interaction with a large neighbour who, through changing regimes and with military construction in Kola, has preserved the capacity for dialogue and interaction with Norway. Our long traditions of joint fisheries management, which go back as far as the 1970s, include: A proof of that. The road Norway is going to have to be built on national and regional cooperation with Russia in order to exploit resources in the north in an efficient, economic and sustainable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e697	The Swedish Food Committee has recently visited Moscow, where we met representatives of Norwegian industry and Russian authorities in discussions on Northern Region policy. A not entirely planned meeting would show us that leading Russian politicians have also, in fact, focused on the north, although their food and energy policy interests are probably also driven in other directions. Russian north-eastern policy is primarily — perhaps surprising to some — about fish and fish resources. On the way out of the meeting in the Duma, a person we actually felt, namely the Russian ultranationalist Vladimir Shirinovsky, who leads the Liberal Democratic Party in Russia, one of the four major party groups in the Duma. When Shirinovskij got to know that there was a group of Norwegian parliamentarians in the immediate vicinity, he plunged right into a discussion about controlling the fishing resources in the Barents Sea. Shirinovskij was surprisingly well oriented. And what's more, he praised the Norwegian control regime. On the other hand, he did not do so in October last year, when the Russian trawler ‘Elektron’ was attempted by the Norwegian Coast Guard and stabbed off farms with two Norwegian inspectors on board. Then was the same Shirinovsky among those who stood outside the Norwegian Embassy in Moscow and protested against violations of Russian sovereignty. When I mention this story, of course, it is because the allocation and control of fishing resources in the Barents Sea is an essential part of Norwegian North Sea policy and therefore also security policy – and because it may be useful sometimes to try to look at itself from the opposite perspective. At the same time as the Business Committee's visit to Moscow, representatives of the Norwegian fisheries authorities met with their Russian partners to discuss the level of blackfishing in the Barents Sea and the methods for such calculations. Step by step, our fishing cooperation with the Russians is expanded – a cooperation that must be based on trust, mutual respect and understanding in this and in all other areas. The representative of Vallersnes probably has special intentions with his interpellation. However, I am convinced that the best defence and security policy effort we can do in the North, which means far more than any military presence, is to strengthen our economic relations with Russia and popular cooperation across the North border. In a wide-ranging lecture in Oslo Military Society on 26 March this year, Ambassador Øyvind Norsletten in Moscow highlighted the new development in relations between Russia and Norway. There he also pointed to the increase in Russian defence expenditure, which is also associated with economic upswings and greatly improved state economy in Russia. Norslett was not particularly concerned about this and indicated that the share of the defence budget in GDP is and has been stable over time. But Norsletten said another thing that we should notice. He said, ‘The Russia we are experiencing today is a Russia that is radically different from what we saw during the 1990s, marked as it was by decline and confusion. [[...]] Modern Russia is a Russia that joins with new strength, self-confidence, direct speech and demands for influence and participation when important decisions are made.» I share Norsletten's observations – even when he continues to quote Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov, who said: ‘No major international issues can be resolved no longer without Russia’. In our understanding of today's Russia, this is important. Just as we want Russia to be taken seriously by us too – whether it concerns Norwegian fish exports, research cooperation or energy issues. When we sometimes record that the Russian authorities respond negatively to Norwegian enquiries, it may be related to just this. An opinion from the Workers’ Party’s recent national meeting points to the fact that regional cooperation between North Norway and North-West Russia is the focus of our Northern Region policy and that people’s people’s cooperation contributes to the development of an open border region. For this reason, we should: facilitate the cross-border crossing of Storskogut wide capacity at the Consulate General of Murmans to establish its own UDI office in Kirkenes in order to facilitate access to Norway;
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e747	It has been interesting to follow the debate, and I will make some comments. Bjørn Jacobsen of SV stated that it seemed as if the interpellant had not yet come completely out of the cold war. That's what I think is a cliché way of describing it, because I focused on the very engagement policy, the neighbour relationship and cooperation as important elements of a new security policy. In fact, I used to pick up the wording from Ambassador Norsletten as well as the Minister of Defence to make them mine. So here I think there's a lot of consensus. But in recognition of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs says, that today, security policy in the north is more than military forces and defence, I tried to bring forward new elements of significance to security policy, just in the north. The Minister of Foreign Affairs may have seemed somewhat surprised at my focus on energy, but I still believe that it is unrealistic that Norway should have close but unpoliticized and market-based energy cooperation in the north, at the same time as both Russia and others actively use energy as an important power policy instrument. The Minister of Foreign Affairs now showed that this could be right for the technical installations. I would also like to remind you that sales are about deliveries, and deliveries have to do with delivery security, and then we have the keyword. As well as the Foreign Minister as Marit Nybakk made a point that my considerations about the different attitudes of the government parties towards NATO were not part of the subject of the interpellation. It surprises me, because in the interpellation it actually says: ‘The broad consensus and clear anchoring of our own defence and security policies provide security and weight in dealing with intergovernmental matters. NATO is then at the centre.’» I therefore think it is an easy avoidance of a difficult topic, of course, for the parties to the government coalition. As Jan Petersen points out, it is a cross of thought that the alliance lacks interest in the northern regions. I would like to end by warning you that we are not acting in such a way that the interest and willingness of allies to engage in the north is a reflection of their perception of our alliance solidarity. Then we will be able to experience that allies are organizing new meetings without inviting us.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e765	There has been a good and interesting debate, and I also believe, as the interpellant, that there are many important common features and points to build on. The representative Petersen was concerned that the Soria Moria declaration was not the starting point for the North Region bet. I fully agree with that. I have guarded myself for ever to put one bet up against the other and emphasize the consensus around the previous message. But on one point, I disagree, and that is that I hear a warning from the representative Petersen against building a height of fall. It's interesting to look at. I'm to build fall heights. There is some evidence of political ambitions. But I'm not really worried about falling. I think not to be ambitious in developing the bet in the north is the wrong strategy. I believe that in our North Sea effort we now have a broad range of activities, which include research, education, higher education cooperation and student exchange, as well as the fields we have related to energy, fish and cooperation with Russia. It's so wide and so many activities that I'm very sure that we can now point to activity in this area. We get to travel around the country and ask if people perceive that there is now a development in the activities of the northern regions, or if they don't. I can see that's the answer. There is a generation perspective around the bet. There will be increased funds. Not all projects are good and can be implemented. We do not decide whether Norwegian companies should join the Shtokman field. I fully agree with the representative Sahl that we should follow up the invitation from Putin on energy strategic cooperation. But a Norwegian government does not decide how the Russians should develop their resources in their sector, but we are open to cooperation. With regard to the Northern Territory dialogue and our allies, they're allies on board. We're working on it. It's a decision that was made in the previous pouring period. We have conducted a dialogue with allies. That's interest in the northern regions, which we haven't seen before. Allied foreign ministers, our partners, are increasingly visiting the northern regions, but this does not invalidate their interest. We know that there is a long line around resource issues and some questions related to Svalbard that we cannot pinch away through dialogues. So we're working on a broad front to deal with this in Norway's interest. Otherwise, I must say that I believe that the Progress Party here speaks a quite militaristic language, about increased defence presence in Finnmark, about a calculation of our defence needs almost after a median, a nearly scientific calculation, as the representative Höglund said. He did not mention the new reality in the north, the new instruments and how we have to work in any of his posts. I have to say to the representative Width that when you talk about the sailing pattern from 2004 to 2006, we were responsible for two months of that period. We can refer to increased appropriations both for Orion flights and for the Coast Guard, and there will be more when we are going to have debates about the Defence Equipment in the next few years. I have not expressed great optimism about the sharing line negotiations. What I have registered is that the negotiations are now in progress again. They started at the end of 2005. We're making progress, and we're going to work closely on this forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e787	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e805	The grant of aid has been roughly doubled over the last seven years. For current years only, the permits increased by $2 billion. This strong growth comes, of course, from political will, but both current and former aid ministers have been helped well by the goal of 1 pst. GNI shall provide assistance. Strong growth in the Norwegian economy has led to the closest rule-driven growth in grants. This growth will continue as long as there is growth in the Norwegian economy. In addition, it says in the Soria Moria statement that the government that rules today has an ambition to go beyond 1 pst. of GNI. Fortunately, there is a lot of support here for the goal of having 1 pst. of GNI for assistance purposes. It's positive. I have no doubt that this is the goal that has made it possible to achieve the growth we have had in the aid budget. Assistance is needed to give poor people a better life and poor countries a brighter future. Of course, the debate on the size of the licences is important, but it is also dangerous if the debate is only about quantity. Well, it's so important to discuss quality and content. We have to ask ourselves all the time, does what we do work? Did the money come out where it was supposed to? How do we evaluate assistance? The willingness to provide assistance is great, but no one wants the money to get lost or to end up in the pockets of corrupt crooks. The lack of control and evaluation may undermine the development of aid policy in Norway today. We have to avoid that happening. With the growth we've had, I think it must be allowed to ask if we have as much focus on effective use as when the resources are scarce. OK, with a growth of over 2 billion dollars or over 10 pst. In the year, to absorb these money in a reasonable way? Do they arrive and are they used as thought? With such growth, does it not automatically increase the chances of getting more heads on the wrong side? Do we want to check that no one supplies the load? In general, Norwegian assistance can be shared in three: direct support to other countries, so-called state aid, support through voluntary organisations and support through the UN, the World Bank and other multi-national organisations. In other words, it is different from the Norwegian state that manages large parts of our assistance. Many of the growth in aid has been channelled through these. It has become so that our support for the UN and the voluntary organisations has also been given a regulatory influence. Additional privileges of assistance provide automatic growth for these organisations as well. Will we ensure that the application procedures and the evaluation system are such that we get a real test of our partners? Or is it so that once you've got your foot inside, a closest certainty is an eternal life with the support of Norwegian authorities? Do we want to evaluate that these funds that go through other organisations are used in the way that is intended, and do we allow this evaluation to affect our vow processes, if any? We all want voluntary organisations, the UN and the state to be as effective and streamlined as possible. We don't want the money to go to unnecessary administration or bureaucracy. This is important for private donors, but it is also important for us politicians. It is therefore right to require that the organisations we support should be as effective as possible. However, it is important that this requirement does not affect the ability of these organisations to manage the resources they manage. The same must apply to the Ministry, NORAD and others dealing with Norwegian aid and Norwegian aid policy. Have the administrative and control permissions been kept up with the growth or what else? At regular intervals, issues arise that someone has provided assistance. We're sorry. This is not specific when it comes to means of assistance, unfortunately, in most areas of society. However, the question is whether the risk of being signed is smaller when a provider provides assistance than other money, and the possibility of making a deposit is larger the further away from the source. I'm busy telling those who need help that we take up the fight against disruptive servers that make a lot of money on those who should have this help. Therefore, control is important. But in addition to that, we must also ask ourselves whether the aid really works. When we see the objectives we have seen in aid policy? I strongly believe that as one of the richest countries in the world, we should help other countries to develop, and that we should help poor people to live a more dignified life. I am sure that in Norway and Western Europe we received invaluable aid and development aid when we received the so-called Marshall aid after the Second World War. In the same way, I am sure that our assistance helps other countries to develop, that our aid funds every day are saving lives, that thousands are getting vaccine or other medical help from our assistance, and that children are getting education that they would otherwise not have received. A functioning state is decisive for development. Without our assistance, some states would work even worse than they do today. Assistance has a positive effect. Nevertheless, at regular intervals, there are examples of projects that have been completely failed and that in some cases have actually made worse. That's why I ask myself: do we know enough about what works, and what doesn't work? Is there good enough research in this area? Do we have the results of this research to guide our efforts? Or do we let ourselves be guided by vision and good wishes? From various research teams, there is criticism of aid policy and allegations that rather than contributing to development, aid is needed for the sementing of e.g. unlucky power structures and unlucky distribution relationships. It's also so that from the south it has come critical voices. The director of the South Centre in Geneva, Yash Tandon, claims that the aid has for a long time been run over the same reading, that aid is no longer a hub for development, but rather the opposite. Something similar was said by Kenyan professor James Shikwati in an interview with Der Spiegel. My question is: do we also listen to such voices, or does it not fit into our world image? I would like to congratulate the Minister for Assistance on the internal budgetary processes of the Government. I hope he gets a full count. But if we're going to be able to continue with assistance at a high level in Norway, we're totally dependent on legitimacy, that the people trust that these money will come out, and that they will help. I now care to hear the Minister of Aid's assurances that this will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e841	Let me start by thanking Olav Aksensen for bringing up a very central theme. Let there be no doubt that it is of course more important how we spend 22 billion kroner in aid than if we get 22 or 22.5 billion kroner. I'm going to fight hard to get this up to 1 pst. But it's more important how we use it 0.97 or 0.98 pst. than that it comes up to 1 pst. It's a matter of course for me. Assistance works. Ten years ago, more than 100 countries in the world had polio, now it's down to four. In Zambia, which I visited last week, the number of HIV-infected people is now going downhill. Three out of four children in the world are now vaccinated against measles. In a country such as Bangladesh — as Kissinger called ‘a basketball case’ — which was one of the poorest countries in the world, a significant number of children now attend school. Girls go to school as often as boys — almost at least. Many more people in the world have access to drinking water. The average human being is higher, thicker, better educated and better fed than ever in world history. The proportion of extremely poor people in the world is falling dramatically. That was 28 pst. Extremely poor in 1990, that was 19 p.m. in 2002. Life expectancy in the world has increased by 20 years in one generation. So there's a lot to enjoy. We have to put aside the picture that we get through the media, that everything goes the wrong way in the world. Of course, it is not that assistance alone has produced these results, but assistance has been a contributing cause for many of these results. Investments, trade, functioning states, on which the interpellant was involved, peace, law and order, a sensible investment climate, aid, social efforts – it is the sum of all these things that now attract many countries in the right direction. It is easy to point to aid projects that have failed. It was just to be lacking, because of course it's much harder for us to do something in a country where we don't know the culture, where we don't fully understand social conditions, a country that's often at war, with a dissolved state where there's no one to secure law and order in the country. Of course, it's harder for us than building roads in the West or schools in Northern Norway. So there will be many failed projects, and it also makes our proposal not to be self-glorifying. We don't have to make sure everything we do is right, but, as the interpellant says, always ask if we're on the right track, and then correct the course if we do things that are not good. Assistance works, but assistance only works with other factors, and the two most crucial factors for development are a functioning state and a strong business life. Then the aid through Aid for Trade can contribute to that business, and then aid can contribute to the functioning state, but these are the two crucial factors. That's also why I insisted on being called the Minister of Development, not the Minister of Assistance. The reality is that well over half of my time agrees to operate with assistance in the classical sense. It is all the other aspects of development that aid can help achieve, which is the main issue of Norwegian development policy. Let me draw up four crucial points in terms of learning about what has been done wrong, and what has been done correctly in the area of assistance – and now I am talking about assistance and not all the other development factors – over the past 30-40 years, where assistance has been central. The first is that it works when we contribute to building functioning states. Foreign expert fields, on the other hand, where we travel and tell African countries, for example, how to solve the problems, are very poor experiences. We have to help those who want to be helped themselves. Here, countries in civil war and humanitarian situations have to be exempted, but there is a functioning government that can address the problems and define for itself how the country will move forward, there is the greatest chance that aid will work. That is also why we have addressed the often most controversial instrument, namely budget support. Budgetary support is an instrument to ensure that African countries which have started to slide, which have a relatively democratic system and, as a matter of fact, an uncorrupted system, can move forward with their own control of their own development. So it helps build states, it doesn't really help with expert fields. Then we have to coordinate with others and focus on what Norway is good at, not that Norway should be a mini-FN that does all things. There will be more and more aid actors. The Gates Foundation alone has more output than – I think it is – 40 countries' gross domestic product. We have the GAVI Alliance International Vaccine Fund and the Global Fund against Aids. There are 47 UN organisations, there are 32 international NGOs, and more and more countries are starting to provide bilateral assistance. The last actors are countries like China, India and now also South Africa. This is one of the best arguments for aid to work. Why in the world would countries such as China, India or South Africa – countries that have so far been major beneficiaries of aid – start with it if they had not felt that the aid had worked, had it mattered to themselves? Either way, the danger of fragmentation is that everyone runs around doing different things, big. In Tanzania, there were 230 bilateral donor visits in 2005. Average number of donors per unit land is 24. In many countries, the authorities are almost fully-timed to deal with donors, and many donors give small amounts of money. So all that speaks for a much greater coordination, and it speaks for Norway focusing on where we have special competence, and then other countries can do the main job where they can be assumed to have as good competence as we do. That is also why I have pointed out women's issues, peace and reconciliation issues, oil and energy supply and environment as special Norwegian areas of activity – these are areas where there is international acceptance for Norway's special advantage. So that's the third. We need to focus not only on expenditure but also on revenue. The ability of countries to generate their own revenues is often far more important than the ability to collect money into countries themselves. That's why we in Norway receive a delegation from Zambia this week to see how we can help Zambia get much more income from its copper production. If they were close to getting the same income from their cups that we get from oil and gas or other countries from their raw materials, yes, the need for assistance to Zambia would go down dramatically. That's why we've been assisting Tanzania in getting a better tax system, so that the country can get more income and thus stand for its own development. And that's why we've been so heavily involved in a program like Oil for Development, which aims to land like this. Angola is able to have such a good management system for its oil and gas activities that the need for assistance disappears. I am quite sure that enabling countries to manage their own incomes works. What is the opposite, which does not work, is to create aid dependence, where one creates a passivity, a attitude in government apparatus, business and, for that matter, non-governmental organisations to sit and receive mild gifts, and adapt to them. This building states, coordinating with others and focusing on the income side and not just the expenditure side are things I'm pretty sure of. The fourth is: we need to have a consistent focus on results. It doesn't help the least if the purposes are good – it's almost always in the aid, not always, but usually – there's a lot of destruction in the world that's done for good purposes. Just look at the war in Iraq, to take a good example. Many of the purposes behind it, which were about creating democracy in the Middle East, were not so crazy, but they have created a misery and suffering without equal to what had to be some of the motives behind starting it. The same can happen, of course, in the area of assistance. The motives are good and good, but the results are crucial. This means systematically focusing on results – not just short-term, easily measurable results, but supposed long-term results – and then solving what turns out to be not producing results, and moving on with and strengthening what produces results. The interpellant also discusses which control systems we put in place to ensure that there is no corruption and default within the development framework. It is very good that that question is asked, because it is an area where the Government has taken many initiatives. We have launched a completely separate review of our grant management to see if we have sufficient control and what proposals may come to improve control. The review is in its final phase, and the results will of course be presented to the Storting as soon as it is available. But it's going to be a complete control, a better control and a more competent control than we might have had now. We have also launched a major anti-corruption project to help other countries fight corruption, but also to ensure zero tolerance for corruption in our own system, better alert mechanisms, guarantee that things are reported, that they are treated as police cases when they are going to, and an absolutely tough line against corruption. Taking advantage of money that would go to the poorest in the world is one of the most repulsive things you can imagine. There can't be any genius compared to that. Then we – and that work started under the previous government – have transformed Norad into an evaluation unit that is going to be much, much stronger on continuously evaluating what we are doing. They're going to initiate their own evaluations, so it's not directed by us. Of course, these evaluations will be put to public debate, and the more people who participate in the debates on the evaluations, the better.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e869	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising this important topic. On 16 April, Professor Øyvind Østerud, whom I believe belongs to the University of Oslo, gave a lecture on Chr. Michelsens Institute, where he put a critical search light on Norwegian aid and development policy. He means, among other things: aid can help support a state-supporting elite, contribute to government decay, render growth-promoting reforms unnecessary and fund corruption. Although I strongly disagree with Østerud’s approach, it is right and necessary that we, as warm supporters of assistance, are also concerned with our development aid – and development policy. Then we have to look at how and to whom we channel money. We need to see the projects we are financing, in conjunction with the development policy of the recipient country. And we need to look at the relationship between trade and development – and trade and aid. Let me then give a brief rewriting of something the Minister for Development said in his statement last May: aid and humanitarian aid are necessary, but policies are more important. Aid and humanitarian aid cannot save Zimbabwe today; it can only be a new regime with a completely different policy. In Mozambique, on the other hand, direct budget support can promote positive development, because it supports the country's anti-dithering policy, and I would like to stress and support that Minister for Development just said about budget support in certain situations. As the interpellant said, we can roughly say that Norway is channelling aid through three channels: it is bilateral aid, it is multilateral assistance through, among other things. The United Nations system and the World Bank are aided through, in part, large Norwegian private organisations. We need to ensure that the assistance is targeted, results-oriented and comes to those who need it. In Mozambique, I was able to see for myself how the means used by the United Nations system to prevent HIV/AIDS worked well. Young people came both to outpatient clinics and to school education. The question is, what about the schools and hospitals that were not run by the UN or, for that matter, by NGOs? We all have a responsibility to contribute to the achievement of the UN's Millennium Goals. Norway shall be in charge here. Our task is to create a fairer distribution and sustainable development. Because poverty is feminised, action needs to be targeted specifically at improving the situation of women. Assistance, industrial policy, trade and other development policies. Active measures to formalise the informal sector and support the work of both UNIFEM and the World Health Organisation on gender and HIV/AIDS must be among the priorities. We have a sharp increase in our assistance every financial year. Let me, like the interpellant, stress that it is important that this is followed up by a strengthening of the administrative apparatus, both here at home and at the outdoor stations, and I hope the Ministry of Finance notices this. We also need to be obsessive to the private organisations receiving assistance to ensure proper operation, transparency and proper control. The government has reduced a public sample to assess the overall Norwegian policy towards developing countries. The committee will deliver an investigation in the next year, and we look forward to that. It is also reassuring that Norway has joined a joint declaration on aid efficiency with more than 90 countries and multilateral organisations. It emphasises that the effectiveness of assistance depends to a large extent on the interaction between donor and recipient, and has a number of objectives that will make cooperation more effective. So I think we should be aware and admit that aid is just a fraction of the total transfers to the developing world. But aid saves lives. We can only look at GAVI – the vaccination program: I don’t remember just how many lives it has saved, and how many infants have been vaccinated, but it’s a very good example of action that takes, that saves lives, and that makes sure that children grow up and can contribute to the society of which they are part.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e895	Let me first of all, like the previous speaker, give honey to the interpellant, the accent, so that he addresses this important issue. And it's hardly surprising that we in the Progress Party are very happy to reach representatives from other parties, too, to see if our aid crowns come to their destination and whether they work as intended. In view of the significant amounts granted by the Norwegian State each year, and the large increase we have had in the budget for the current year, it is more important than ever to focus on efficiency and control. For many years, the Progress Party has raised a number of questions about our aid policy. We have just been concerned about the quality of Norwegian assistance, if the help comes to those who need it, and if the help has or has had an impact on those who receive it. Unfortunately, the majority of this room has been occupied by one and only by the size of assistance instead of quality. I hope the debate today will help us in the future to have a more open debate on all aspects of Norwegian aid, because we all know that this is not an unconditional success story. In the social debate, we now see that more and more actors are asking the same questions that we in the Progress Party have been doing for many years regarding Norway’s uncritical aid policy. One of these is Øyvind Østerud, professor of state science at the University of Oslo, also mentioned by the representative Nybakk. In an article in New Norwegian Journal No. 4 in 2006 he writes among others. the impact of development assistance from rich to poor countries over the past 50 years is highly controversial. He further writes that there is ‘no clear link between aid and economic development’. Some Asian countries such as Singapore, India and China have had significant economic growth, but there is no developmental aid that explains growth. At the same time, a number of countries that have received the most assistance have had negative economic developments and growing poverty problems. Africa south of the Sahara has received large and growing aid in the last three decades, totaling several thousand billion dollars, while the average national income per year. The population has dropped by close to 10 pst. during the same period. Some assistance measures have been relatively successful, while others have been unsuccessful and, in many cases, directly harmful. Concrete projects with close follow-up and local competence building can be successful under some conditions. A growing problem, however, is that local expertise is increasingly disappearing as a brain drain to the rich parts of the world. While the world is helping Africa to mitigate the AIDS problem, thousands of African pharmacists, doctors and nurses have emigrated to the United States and Europe. The Norwegian state aid policy, which started with the India aid and the Kerala fishing project in the 1950s, is being incorporated into an international pattern. The large piece ‘History of Norwegian Development Assistance’ cannot demonstrate that the aid of nearly SEK 200 billion has had no development effect. Over 50 years, Norwegian and international aid ideology has undergone a series of line changes without any visible improvement in the overall impact. There has been massive capital support to break the vicious circle of poverty, with little or no effect. In addition to lack of efficacy, a number of studies have shown extensive disposal of aid. A report from the Development Organisation ActionAid estimated that half of international transfers go to expensive, inefficient Western consultants, administrative costs and other backflows to donors. Researchers in the World Bank evaluated the effects of Norwegian development aid in 2001 and generally claimed that the impact depends on the quality of the economic institutions and policies in the beneficiary countries. At the same time, they claimed that aid without favourable reception conditions could be directly harmful. It also appears that the countries most in need of help are often those with the least capacity to benefit from it. All of this shows that we need to look at Norwegian development policy in a completely new way. We can no longer sit passively and watch that large sums of money are collected into projects that have little or no effect, or see another way when we know that money disappears in the pockets of corrupt rulers. On the part of the Progress Party, we welcome a debate on much better and more effective assistance. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e916	I would also like to thank the interpellant for travelling the theme. In the six years I have been in the Foreign Affairs Committee, I have experienced that evaluation, from being a small note, has gradually evolved into a separate chapter of the aid notification and now a separate theme in interpellation. I think it shows that there is a broad consensus that a much more systematic work needs to be done in this area, and that is an commitment that we now find in the organizations, departments, departments and here in the Stortinget. And there's a lot of mess, for all things. I observe that in these years we have gradually gone from being in a way retrospective, post-timely evaluating, to realizing that we need to be more prospective and focus on method development and research. There's a lot of new developments going on, and it's time. At the same time, there has been a development of the content of the theme, from a typical revision of money use, which must of course be kept up to date, to the achievement of the objectives of the appropriations, which are typical of project-oriented assistance, and now, fortunately, more and more focus on the evaluation of the long-term impact, the impact, what do we achieve in the long term? That's the whole point. Like several others here today, I have also read Østerud's various articles. They can be condescending, but at the same time they can be realistic. I am thinking of the article last June in the Evening Post, «Small Land Saves the World», the article in New Norwegian Journal, No. 4 a.m., 'Small country as a humanitarian act?' and the lecture he gave in April. It's actually a little depressing, but it's still worth including both the observations and the statements. Now I'm not going to repeat some of the things that Mr. Waksdal referred to here, but I want to point out that even Eastward to the seventh and last in his articles and articles comes with a lot of evidence of things that it's important to address in order for things to get better. And what is that? Indeed, he demonstrates that ‘the impact depends on the quality of the economic institutions and policies of the recipient countries’. Then he's busy with institutions. He writes, among other things: in the article in the New Norwegian Journal: ‘Institutions appear to be the critical variable in development and poverty reduction. Institutions such as ownership, contractual certainty and predictable public behaviour are necessary conditions for an efficient economic system of well-functioning markets. Without a firm legal order and State enforcement of framework conditions, the market as common good will coincide and be hijacked by criminals or by favored special interests.» In short, what the Council of State in its statement called the importance of state building and social building, it is essential to take it into account. So in addition to getting down on the ground with realistic descriptions of Østerud's type, I think it's also important to see what kind of lessons we can draw from the things he points out. And then there's some points. Firstly, development assistance and assistance must also include the establishment of social institutions. That's what we've started with. We have some examples of this, from strengthening financial management in some countries to building statistical central agency in Uganda and other things. Secondly, I would like to say that it is particularly necessary to raise a Weather Alert poster when we enter into arrangements that include budget support. Budget support requires, in particular, a developed and credible standard of financial management, public behaviour and legal systems. I don't think one should be tempted to introduce someone with that kind of arrangements until one is quite sure that they're able to attend to it. Finally, there is a long-term effect that counts. Why is it so important to both evaluate and document? Yes, as others have been involved, primarily for the benefit of those who are to receive the assistance. We have a responsibility towards them, and for the assistance to reach those who need it. If we don't put up the systems so that it reaches those who need it the most, we've failed them. It's the most important thing. But we also have a responsibility towards our own citizens, the taxpayers. It's not hard to predict that if we're not able to prove that we're achieving the effect of so much money, the motivation of our own people disappears. Then we also failed those out there who would receive the assistance. So I want the interest to be equal to the degree of impact as for the size of the effort, and I also look forward to later debates that we will have in the near future, including on trade as a contribution to development.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e940	I too want to commend the committee leader for raising an important debate. Large cash flows have gone from colonial times up to our days from south to north, in the form of interest and rebates on loans, in the form of cheap commodities, in the form that transnational companies own resources in the south and serve themselves in the dark. This is something – not just this, but it is something – of the backstop because SV and other solidarity environments have been working for increased assistance. It is deeply unfair that someone should be condemned to live in poverty, as we watched on TV yesterday about the poor Indian stoneworkers, hard work without a chance to get out of poverty. Or as the Cambodian woman said in a UNIFEM report: poverty means work for more than 18 hours per person. Today, but still I do not serve enough to feed my family. Development work is concerned with the level of assistance, the structures that create the differences, and the provision of assistance to the poor. That's why the fight against corruption, that no one should get out of the farm with the aid, is a very important work. That is why this debate is also important. We welcome a public debate on aid money. NORAD’s 2006 annual report on the evaluation of Norwegian development work has been interesting. It points out, among other things: that in 2006 we had more development debates in the media than in a long time, and that the need for evaluation is at the heart of this debate. Reference is made to the fact that there is no lack of critical voice in the debate, as others have been involved here, and to which reference has also been made, and that, among other things, it is. focussed on not knowing enough about the long-term effects of assistance and projects. A real reminder in this way is that in many developing countries there is usually a great lack of statistics and other information, as well as cultural differences. With that as a background step, I want to highlight the government's commitment to good governance, that it has been raised in development policy. Civil society is an important part of democracy in Norway, as is the case in developing countries. In order to ensure public awareness, civil society is not less important in poor countries, where institutions and infrastructures are weak. Not least, many countries need stronger and more independent media that can act as guard badges. Norwegian assistance is therefore also intended to support independent media. The budget for this year has increased the resources for evaluation and research on development. Both at home and in developing countries, much more knowledge is needed about whether development is taking place or not. We need much more knowledge about whether or not development policy, foreign policy and trade policy are linked. It is therefore good that the Government set up a development committee. I would like to give an example of how the evaluation work has had consequences. «Women and assistance» has been lurked. We know the result: a lot has to be done in this area. There is good reason to believe that aid to date has not met the poorest, namely women. The launch of the Women’s Action Plan and gender equality on 8 March this year show visible results of the evaluation. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs will redefine the work in this area. Women’s integration can only succeed if it has strong support in the form of policies, personnel and own funds. Women's rights projects shall be strengthened and well followed. Finally, I would like to address an incredibly important measure that has not been taken by anyone else, namely the government's front against tax havens. According to Eva Joly, it is the first time a Western government declares war on tax havens. Tax Justice Network detects a global tax shock that is a disaster for the poorest countries, which misses $3,000 billion each year in lost tax revenue because of tax evasion and tax competition. It's ten times the total aid budget in the world. Who's enriching? Both the economic and political elite in the poor countries, but also the transnational companies. Nigeria’s ecocrim is built with Norwegian support. The Nigerian ecosystem expert stresses the importance of this aid. Over the course of three years, Nigeria’s ecocrime has received 120 cases in court, received 2 000 judges and confiscated 5 billion dollars in corruption. This is an incredibly important work, because it is precisely in the tax havens that the funds that are deprived of society through corruption are hidden away.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e961	International solidarity is important. And we have to be sure that the funds come out. It is therefore necessary to have good practice and good control. It has long and consistently worked for the Christian People's Party. The interpellant points out that this year we are spending 20 billion kroner for aid purposes. That's a lot of money. However, it is worth remembering that there is not a large proportion of our wealth that we spend on the aid. In fact, it represents less than one hundredth of the annual value creation in Norway. The key words in the interpellation are efficiency and control. The main question is how can we ensure that the funds get where they're going. The Christian People's Party would like the debate to have a slightly broader objective, which I think the Minister of Aid helped to expand. We don't just have to make sure the funds get where they're going. We also need to ensure that the programmes and projects we choose to finance from the Norwegian side have a good impact on the fight against poverty. We had earlier this winter critical media postings around some end-of-life trucks from the Norwegian defense, which Red Cross sent to Africa on behalf of the aid. The cars came forward, but the world's best assistance was hardly possible. One lesson we can draw is that disposal problems in Norway should not direct the selection of aid projects. Another example is the famous maritime sports campaign in the late 1970s. The world market was vacuumed to fill empty order books in Norwegian shipyards. A lot went wrong. We are still in the process of cancelling debts that Norway used to impose on poor developing countries. No, the starting point must not be home self-interest. It must be the needs and conditions of the developing countries. How can we help them in their efforts to overcome poverty? Then we have to think in the long term. We need to give priority to education in the aid, because education is a key to development. Better public health is another key. Otherwise, the labour needed to create development is weakened. It is important to ensure enough vaccines and sufficient health professionals. That is why the Christian People's Party recently addressed the health shortage in developing countries in an interpellation. Health care needs to be increased. But development cooperation is more than usual assistance. Thin debt must be deleted. We have also decided that Norway should participate and do so. Improvements in the trade conditions of the poorest countries are also needed. The most important thing is global solutions through the WTO, but we can also do more nationally. That is why the Christian People's Party has recently promoted an interpellation on trade facilitations for poor developing countries. Then to the control aspect. Is the money coming out? To ensure this, NORAD has developed control mechanisms over a number of years, carried out its own project reviews and independent evaluations. The national audit also contributes to this control and provides critical and useful input for further improvements. In order to avoid misuse of Norwegian funds — contrary to assumptions — there is a need to focus on prevention, continuous monitoring and sharp response when they are detected. This applies not only to aid but also to international trade and investment. There are cheaters also in Norwegian public agencies and Norwegian companies. We have recently seen more examples of this. from technical establishments and, at the latest, from a case of social security abuse, whether to threaten the media. Corruption is a major problem in several of the poorest countries. Therefore, former Minister of Aid Hilde Frafjord Johnson launched a separate action plan to combat corruption. In that fight, we must have zero tolerance. As aid appropriations grow, administrative requirements also grow. But we don't have to add up that everything is going to go through NORAD. If Norwegian aid management has limited resources, many UN organisations have too little money for their development and emergency measures. Other international development institutions also have a high capacity and have their own control procedures and audit systems. I am therefore somewhat surprised that we are sending a smaller share through multilateral bodies now than when we had lower aid budgets. Voluntary Norwegian organisations are also an important channel. This year, there was no real increase in the state budget for their long-term development projects. Many channels can be used in aid cooperation. In any case, however, we must make sure that the assistance is followed up with the necessary monitoring and evaluation. If Norway is to be the leader of assistance, we must also be at the forefront in terms of control and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e997	A thank you to the interpellant, who has taken up a very important topic, and who in his questioning also embraces very wide. I will use the opportunity to reflect a little on the assistance that has traditionally been provided, and on the development policy that this government is now strengthening. First, however, I would like to stress that no matter what form of money transfers for development cooperation and emergency aid takes, it will be a challenge to ensure that the money reaches those they are intended to. With an aid budget of approximately DKK 20 billion, we cannot assume that there will never be irregularities. Such hands in our own community too. Transfers of the aid budget will always be made to countries and regions with inadequately developed institutions and democracy, or under complete chaos in a disaster situation. That is why we are providing assistance to these very countries. I am not saying this to excuse irregularities – on the contrary. What is our challenge is to have procedures that ensure that we detect irregularities, that they have consequences, and that we create systems where the chance of recurrence is low. There has been a broad consensus on this in Stortinget. This is a continuous work that will always have to be followed closely. That is why we have evaluations, audits and the National Audit Office. Where we are unsure whether the matter has been dealt with firmly enough, we have the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. That's how we're going to pursue irregularities like the Minister of Development and NORAD, last in connection with the irregularities in the Church's Emergency Aid. Such routines captured what happened in Norfund last year, and what happened to Statoil in Iran. In terms of corruption and poor governance, we need and want zero tolerance. In the 2007 budget, we made a decision related to assistance where the money had reached, but where the effect was not the way we wanted it to be. We cleared debts after the shipping campaign. It was an aid field where we had connected Norwegian competence with Norwegian interests, with assistance and loans. It is a little honorable part of Norwegian aid history. If development cooperation is not based on the right assumptions, there is little help in getting the money out. When the World Bank and the IMF have imposed conditions on the privatisation of natural resources in developing countries in order to transfer aid or loans, whether by the mining industry in Zambia or by water in Bolivia or Ghana, the money may reach, but the development may be absent or poverty may increase. We have heard representatives from developing countries claiming that aid has become an instrument in an alliance between strong interests in Western countries and the elites in developing countries, and that aid has undermined development and poverty reduction. We should listen carefully to this. Let's go back a little bit to the assistance we got in Europe after World War II. It might have been interesting if we could take some of the positive moves from there, about why that assistance was so successful. Maybe it was because it was just bet on the local forces, that they were given a good impression, that we achieved something appropriate. Today, we call – let's say – a distinct national activity like the one we had at the time, nationalism, and it's going to be uglesight. Maybe we should once again focus on what benefits the population by just inviting them heavily into what's going to happen. When the Right Party and the Advance Party place such emphasis on free trade to solve poverty problems, I do not think that is the case. We have a good example in cooperation between Norway and Namibia in the fisheries sector. Just the fisheries, that resource, we've managed to stay within Namibia's sphere of activity, and there we've seen positive results. Let's critically review our aid policy and look for even better solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1018	We in the Left would also like to thank the interpellant for raising such an important topic. The left has just had its national meeting, and there we adopted a new principal programme. It says, among other things. on development as a complex process, i.e. that development has a variety of drivers, and that the prerequisite for promoting development can vary greatly from country to country and also strongly from time to time. Developing countries will at different stages need different types of action to succeed in their fight against poverty. The left therefore points to three different measures in its development policy: promoting trade, stimulating business development and providing assistance. The most important measure for us is to promote trade and, below that, better and fairer trading framework conditions, with emphasis on the Doha Round in the WTO. In addition, we want to help developing countries reach our markets with their products. As far as development in the south is concerned, we focus on small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, the Left will continue to have a high level of assistance, which we contributed to under the Bondevik II government, and which today's government has continued. In such a situation, there is every reason to focus on the results and evaluation of the assistance. The left does not agree with those who consistently drop aid, often with an ideological averaging. We see failed projects, but we also have the ability to see the successful ones. One problem has been that the success criteria for assistance have been unclear. Assistance is often put into areas with the weakest and the poorest. Here it can contribute to the improvement of life and save the lives of many marginalized people. However, concrete contributions to economic development or growth in GDP are difficult and sometimes impossible to measure. In order to maintain a broad political consensus on assistance – and I do not always count on the role played by the Progress Party – it is important that we do everything in our power to increase the quality of assistance. Otherwise, the political basis for assistance will start to be confused. Strengthening the performance, reporting and evaluation of assistance is central here. The left is pleased to focus on that, and that NORAD has recently been given a new and strengthened mandate in terms of evaluation. This includes the evaluation of external professional environments that are neutral and independent of those implementing the projects. Furthermore, evaluation shall be adapted to new forms of cooperation, such as: Budgetary support and more extensive coordination. In addition, the outcome of the evaluation shall be better disseminated by promoting learning. In other words, we're going to be better at learning from our mistakes. Last but not least, the results of the evaluation will form a more systematic basis for our policy-making. I see many good intentions and important steps to increase the quality of assistance. Focusing on performance reporting and evaluation has been a recurring issue of Norwegian aid policy. The new thing, as I see it, is that there has been a significantly more concrete and binding mandate. The challenge for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and NORAD will be to put this into practice effectively. Once the aid has grown to 21 billion kroner, and we only spend 20 million dollars. It is a challenging and resource-intensive evaluation tool that we need to use. Perhaps it is also time to discuss whether the use of money on evaluation is high enough. The focus of the Bondevik II government on corruption is also important in this fight. In the case of corruption, it is not just a matter of getting aid. In the fight against corruption, it is about building democracy and states that are also citizens' state. Finally, in my speech, I would like to point out that the debate has mainly focused on bilateral aid. However, a large part of the assistance is provided through multilateral organisations, such as: The World Bank and the United Nations system, to name a few. Here the Norwegian money is included in large international projects, which makes it difficult to evaluate the outcome of each country’s efforts. However, progress is being made in this area, and Norway, in cooperation with other donor countries concerned, should follow up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1039	As we at home have driven a national cohesion policy, we must also contribute to global development. That is what development policy is all about and should be about. This is why development is much more than just assistance. In my opinion, the multilateral part of the assistance through the United Nations system is Norway's main effort. What the welfare state has been within the nation state must remain in the global arena. The UN Member States have gathered on the so-called Millennium Goals. By 2015, child mortality is to be reduced, the proportion of those living for less than $1 a day is to be halved and the HIV/AIDS epidemic is to be stopped. These objectives are an incredibly important step towards a more equitable world with better living conditions. It is possible to achieve the objectives, but only if the rich part of the world increases its development assistance and streamlines it. In 2006, Norway was re-elected to the world’s highest level of human development. We are the world's best country to live in, and we have all the prerequisites to help raise the standard of living in poorer countries elsewhere in the world. This is precisely why Norwegian aid also accounts for a large proportion of the budgets of selected UN organisations. This is money that gives great and good results within, among other things. emergency aid, improving governance, repatriation after conflicts and natural disasters, energy and the environment and equality, and it is essential that this assistance is maintained and reinforced if we consider that the Millennium Goals are to be achieved and that Norway should contribute. At the same time, it is crucial for the legitimacy of the UN and its future contribution to the system that we are critical of the use of money, that we demand better control, question and debate. That serves the United Nations, because it helps to make the United Nations better. On the other hand, what no one serves is a Member State and politicians who give up. It's political forces that, when dealing with every state budget, think we're going to keep even more of what we serve ourselves, and give even less to those who need it the most. Much of the argument behind that position is about aid being a risk project. We agree that as Norway's aid efforts increase, we need to be extra critical of what we spend these billions on, that we provide assistance in the areas where it works best, and that we make sure it gets to where it is going. We make assistance for politics and prioritize women and equality, energy and environment, democracy and governance, but we also ensure that the aid money goes closer to the seams, so that we are sure they actually get where they are going. It's a matter of course. What distinguishes us from parts of the opposition, however, is that while parts of the opposition point out that assistance is a risk project and therefore chooses to resign and propose to cut it out – at least to cut it down – we go into the discussion about what actually works, where it works, and how we can make it the best possible, but with the continued aim of increasing it. It is very regrettable that some people call for a cut-off and, even more dramatically, cut out Norway’s aid, especially through the UN system. Arguments that the United Nations needs red tape, reform and greater action do not conflict, but it will be a dead end to freezing Norway’s aid to the world’s poorest in the fight for an even better and more effective UN. We know that the United Nations has major financing problems. They are struggling with a lack of willingness to contribute from the Member States. It is a more forward-looking discussion than the debate on whether to freeze Norwegian contributions or not, how can we secure the UN some sort of independent financing through, for example, the way it is done. international charges, and how can Norway contribute to making the UN even better? We can discuss that. In a global economy, it is high time to facilitate global taxation in order to build global common resources. If we are able to rethink and provide the UN with stable and predictable revenues to pursue cohesion policy, we will also enable the organisation to implement the Millennium Goals. By threatening Norwegian economic boycott, we will neither achieve a better UN nor less poverty in the world. Norway has been in the driver’s seat in the work on the UN reform. We must continue to do so, and we must strengthen the Norwegian contribution to the world's poorest, through the UN. Norwegian assistance is by far the most effective, but of course we need to be critical of our own efforts. The representative, Mr. Vaksdal, said that there are some parties here in Stortinget that alone are concerned with the size of the assistance. The only party I know about as one and alone has been concerned with the size of the assistance, and who has not been interested in participating in the discussion on how we can optimise the assistance is the Progress Party. They have consistently provided examples of things that have not worked, and arbitrary research, and have concluded that it is therefore not necessary to maintain the aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1061	First, I have to be allowed to give praise to the interpellant. I think it has in general been a very good debate and a lot of good articles. The fact that we have this debate at all is a quality mark that we have come a little further on Norwegian development policy. I must also be allowed to address the previous speaker, the representative of Trettebergstuen, who I feel has not received all the posts the Progress Party has held in this Chamber related to the very content of the assistance and development aid. I strongly reject the fact that we have taken a unilateral interest in the amount of the crown. It was said very well from our committee leader that the quality is important, not just the quantity. In conclusion, however, the representative also says that if we are to manage to maintain aid at a high level in Norway, the aid must be effective and must work. So, are we going to manage to maintain the assistance at a high level – as if it were the goal? When the goal has to be – and I think to the extent that the Council of State said it is right – to combat poverty and to raise the poor part of the world to a level of development that is positive, it still becomes a defense that we can have the number of billions we give today, plus some more, in the years to come. I think it's sad that we're at that level. We see it every year when the government budget is presented. And with a new record increase in the aid budget in dollars, the criticism comes, whether it's the Christian People's Party that criticizes the sitting government, or vice versa, or the voluntary organizations. That's critical because you don't reach a percentage that's set. I think it is sad that the debate has been at that level so far. Maybe this is an example of us turning around, and that the debate now will be more about the content and less about this percentage and about these amounts. How many children can we help? How many can we get with this money? What health problems can we face, and how can we do this in the most effective way? State Council Erik Solheim produced, at least as I understood it, two types of evidence that assistance helps and is effective. He indicated that many relationships around the world today are better than they were before. I can sign everything that was said in that way. Now the Council of State nuanced it in relation to whether assistance was the only solution to these problems. I want to say it as strongly as I think much of this is not because of the assistance, but despite the assistance. Many years can be seen back in countries that did not participate in the aid, such as Spain and Portugal. South Korea after the Korean War. It was then said that the country was so poor that it was useless to provide assistance for it, because they had no system to absorb the aid. The country did not receive the kind of assistance that other countries have been blessed with, but they managed in an incredible way and rose out of poverty. Then another example was used, that now China, India and South Africa have become new aid actors. Yes, why, for example, China? They are in the aid market, but it may have to do with other interests than being strictly concerned with combating poverty, as we may be. Without I'm going to seem very prejudiced here, I'll still try to drag in that part of the debate. In some look-up earlier this month, TV 2 referred to the Riksrevision about problems in managing so much money in the system. You say things have to get better, you get new control procedures. From our side, we'll say, yes, we've heard that before. It has always been said – every year – from different governments: now everything will be so much better. There's still to see if that's the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1076	Today's debate, initiated by Olav Akselsen, is important. It is important because it is about succeeding in one of the most important challenges we face in the world: fighting poverty, bringing 1 billion people into a reality of hope, prosperity and faith in the future, away from oppression, poverty, lack of hope and lack of dreams. With this, I hope that the representative, Mr Höglund, understands that the aim of the Workers' Party is to combat poverty, not to reach the maximum possible amount in the budget. It is also important because it is about a lot of money – a lot of money. In absolute terms, Norway granted 20 750 million. kr in 2007. Also in relation to other rich countries – what they give – this is a huge amount. We are a small country in the world, but in aid policy we are a major act. It notices what we're doing, what we're saying, and it also obligates. The commitment is that aid and assistance must be free from corruption, must be targeted and effective, and must be provided. The help must go to the poor girl in Angola who wants and deserves to go to school, to the baby in Senegal who gets his needed vaccine dose, or to disaster victims who get emergency help when nature may have laid houses, roads, and everything else in ruins. If we do not succeed in ensuring that the aid is as effective as possible, we will fail the poor first of all, but we will also fail the voters who believe it is possible to help people out of poverty and who want to help those who suffer. The legitimacy of spending so large sums on aid policy is confused if we do not take care that policy is accurate, effective, targeted and not encroached with corruption. The goal of the plural government is ready. The Soria Moria Declaration states ‘that the appropriations for development cooperation will reach the target of 1 per cent of GNI and that the effort will then be stepped up further’. That's good, very good. All too often, however, the Norwegian aid debate is marked by this achievement. It is rarely discussed openly and without prejudice, except for today, what is most effective, and what works or not. There's something scary about this kind of closest rule-driven financing, that is. appropriations are automatically triggered by the growth of the Norwegian economy. There's a glimmer in the fact that the critical sense of using every penny, every dollar, is sluggish. All the other sectors to which we give money must, in addition to pointing out concrete needs, also argue strongly that repriorities are not enough, fresh money must be available. The aid budget is probably the only budget where you know there's an increase, even without the penitentiary exercise on re-priorities. The pressure on necessary changes and reforms will be reduced when appropriations only point upwards regardless of results. There is less room for critical voices when economic instruments are less used as a means of pressurisation if it does not work. Now you can re-prioritise between aid projects when we see that the money doesn't come out, or that the effectiveness is lacking, and that happens. But it requires awareness of decision-makers, and it requires that the decision-making systems do not become too rigid. Many have probably heard of aid projects that have been initiated and fit into a target in the donor country, while in the beneficiary countries there are no sensible projects to support. And then the system must not insist that the money be spent on environmental projects in Zambia, if there are no good and appropriate environmental projects to support in Zambia. I am pleased that the Minister of Assistance both mentioned the efforts and referred to the results of the vaccine alliance, and what they can put on the table. Other debaters have also pointed to the work that GAVI has done. Their work is impressive, and it's not random. For both the way the vaccine work is organised and the focus that it has all been on efficiency show results. This means that more children have been vaccinated than if GAVI had worked ineffectively. But so important is the fact that they have managed to collect significant funds from governments in rich countries, and from private donors, precisely because they are so effective. When the results come, it'll be even easier to collect new money to vaccinate even more. Last week, the brokerage firm Goldman Sachs used a little random money – for them to notice – on a full-page advertisement in today's business. There they boasted of how their best people have been involved in developing new funding methods in GAVI. Vaccination of children is their profile outwards, slightly eye-catching, but in and of themselves joyous. The private public cooperation they refer to will be exciting to see the results of. I am convinced that the innovation will ensure that even more children will be vaccinated. This is possible precisely because the story of GAVI is that as many children as possible are vaccinated as possible and as efficiently as possible. Adult work is one of the not too many success stories in this field. My claim is that just focusing on economic efficiency is a key factor that will explain success. This must be documented. We must use this in other areas so that we can continue to increase assistance, as we want in the Soria Moria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1095	I would first like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I would also like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate on the interpellation that I have advanced, because I think he is important. I would like to make it clear that the objective has been to legitimise Norwegian assistance, not to provide a good example that should again be a cause for cutting aid. There is no target in itself for Norway to allow the most. The objective is, of course, to bring about a development in the world in which assistance from countries such as Norway can gradually be stepped down. But unfortunately, for many years yet, Norway will need to grant funds to the aid budget. I am pleased with the positive developments that the Minister for Development is drawing on. However, the question is whether he can demonstrate that this is related to assistance, or whether it may as well be that some of these developments have failed in the assistance. It's like it's important for us to have knowledge of these things. Ideology and political position are of course important, but one should never underestimate the value of fact-based knowledge, because that is what we need to work on when we develop our aid policy. In Norway now we have the political and popular will to contribute, but will is not enough. We need research to demonstrate that the processes we are starting are working. The goal must be to learn from the errors that have been done and then adjust the course. But it is also important that we can use that evidence in the debate against the most hateful attacks on aid policy. If we have clear evidence that our actions work, it will also be easier to pass this on to the Norwegian population. I am a major supporter of both international organisations and Norwegian voluntary organisations. However, I wonder whether we have good enough and effective procedures to ensure that the money given to these organisations is used properly, and not least whether we have control of this. What happens if any fractures occur? Does it have consequences? The same must apply to our support from the Norwegian state to another country: what is the consequence if the beneficiary country uses these funds in an inefficient way, if there is corruption or bad governance? Finally, do we have a high enough level of permissions we use for administration and control in this area? It would be interesting to know if the Council of State felt that he had these promises under control. Regardless of the size of the permissions, ineffective use of them actually results in fewer people getting help. So these are important questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1108	I think it's easy to prove that almost all of the trends I drew out, for example. on the medical improvement in the world, is closely related to assistance. Where I think the main reason for questioning the aid is to what extent it is a suitable tool to get to what can be called self-enhancing economic growth based on the development of economic activity in a country. It is a topic that the interpellant has also generally been very interested in in Norway. With regard to the self-enhancing growth seen in countries like China and Korea, etc., I am uncertain as to what role aid can play. I think it can contribute something, but there are other factors that are more important. However, with regard to schooling, health and all these things, there is a sunny link between aid and positive development. So I would like to thank Mr Ågot Valle for bringing up something very central, namely that in a number of areas, aid is one of the reasons why we do not produce as strong a result as we want, that we – the whole West and other rich countries – have led and lead to a policy that undermines to those degrees what is the purpose of giving money. The complexity of tax havens, Western financial institutions and corrupt politicians in poor countries brings much more money out of these countries than what comes in, and that is an effective undermining of what is meant by aid. Let me mention another area as well. We all agree that building efficient, competent, well-managed states is one of the most important things we can do. But there is no single factor that has contributed as much to keeping Africa out of control as it calls the war. It wasn't a single corrupt dictator and tyrant – bitch, I don't know if it's a parliamentary expression, but at least it's covering these people – in Africa that wasn't a client during one of the major acts of the Cold War. Enthusiast in Ethiopia was a "client" of the Soviet Union. Samuel K. Doe, who started a 25-year-old absolute destruction of Liberia – which only ended last year, when the country got a female president – was an American running boy. He started by shooting the entire previous government on the beach in Monrovia. Reagan declared him to be one of Africa's greatest democrats. Emperor Bokassa in the Central African Republic could never have existed without France, etc. There is much that the West and Russia have done that undermines the purpose of the aid. Yes, now I talked away from the theme, but I'm engaged in this. Ostreud has been mentioned by several representatives. I'll try to give a long and thorough response to him. He brings up key issues in the debate, but I think he is too negative in his belief in what it is possible to do not only to tear down countries from outside – which Iraq is a good example of – but also to build countries from outside. Finally, I would just like to say to the interpellant, Olav Akselsen: I have now taken the initiative to fully review the entire administrative system of the department itself, but also to look at the voluntary organizations, the UN, the World Bank and all the other structures to which we give money. How much do these people spend on administration? Is it possible to compare this? How can we secure both ourselves and everyone we give money for, an optimal administrative system?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1121	As long as the Council of State does not refer to the members of this house as 'thirds bags', the President will, under doubt, accept that he is using it.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1124	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1131	That is when the debate is on case No. Three o'clock.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1149	Dear Councillor! We who are Norwegian women are privileged in many ways. We've made it clear what many of the world's women are dreaming about. On an international scale, Norway is one of the world’s most successful countries in terms of gender equality. We are unique, and it is known that many envy us – in a positive way. Norwegian women have the opportunity to combine career and family. We've invaded colleges and universities. We participate in the work, in line with men, even if we have children. We've made the father take leave and take care of our kids. We are committed to politics. Now we also want corporate governance. However, in parallel with this development, Norway has evolved into a multicultural society. We've always been multicultural to some degree, but not with the complexity that we have now. It has made Norway more exciting and more colorful, but – I would also say dry – something problematic in many areas. Multicultural society is not a cliché or a dream. It's a reality that's come to be. In the modern, globalised world, migration is natural, and I would like to stress that many in the political environment have not yet understood it. Interestingly, today it is natural that a person can be born in land a, grow up ashore b – because mom and dad work there as munitions or ambassadors – go to school a country c, meet a girlfriend a country d, study a country f and settle down and work somewhere else, a country g. Maybe you go back to your roots, to spend your old age in a cabin ashore. This is incredible, but this is how the individualistic, ultramodern and mobile world we live in now has become. That is why we have Christians, Muslims, atheists and humaneists in the same backyard and in the same schoolyard. That's why the director's daughter meets the worker's son – from every possible corner of the world. This means that the integration and inclusion of people with different values is one of the most important issues we face in modern times. Feminism in 2007 has changed and has proved to be more complex. We must not forget this. It's a paradox that in like-minded Norway, where we talk loudly about free abortion, as if it's a matter of course, where we go in March 8th to get more women leaders in society and to get more women leaders in business, where we're responsible for father, and where we've even gotten so far that we use feminine ruling techniques when we're debating men, we've gone over houses that there are women today who have lived here for over 35 years, who are illiterate. They cannot read and write in their own native language, and can therefore not read a single word in Norwegian. Would anyone in a modern country have the right to be illiterate? Are Norwegian children who are brown in the skin, and who have a different name, allowed to grow up in modern Norway, with a mother and a father who cannot read and write, with a mother who has no or is not able to stand up at the parents’ meetings? The doctors who have met women with a migrant background in healthcare confirm that these women’s main problem is not physical diseases, but a life situation characterised by isolation and lack of independence. Many of them cannot go to the doctor without bringing their own brother, father, husband or son. For us, who are like-minded women in Norway, it's a very nice thought. Many of these women have also been prevented from learning Norwegian by their own spouse. Others have unfortunately been in line for too long at the Norwegian training centres. In Oslo, over a thousand women are on the waiting list to learn Norwegian. Minority women are strongly underrepresented and absent in Norwegian working life. As a tragic consequence, they will in the future be poor – as permanent domestic social clients and minimum pensioners in the long term – if we, as politicians, do not take a responsible lead and meet these challenges seriously. There is no doubt that there is a need for a massive awareness in these women’s environments that it is in their own interest to achieve financial autonomy – given their age, personal development and child education. I am – dear Council of State and dear President – very, very optimistic, for in Norway we have had a historical tradition that employment is a priority political objective. And precisely because we have a social-democratic government and a government council in this field that has always been very concerned with minority women, I have strong faith that we can do something about this. Not only is public poverty feminized, but it has a clear ethnic dimension. Let's say we had a municipality in Norway where 75 pst. of the children grew up in socially dependent families, where 80 pst. of the children were school losers when they went to school because they could not Norwegian, and where all the mothers were illiterate. Then I am sure that from this pulpit there had been proposals for an action plan to lift this municipality. But when these differences are between minority and majority, we don't do that much. Humanism, women’s liberation and gender equality have been fundamental in Norway. We have minority communities in Norway today where extreme, reactionary and traditionalist attitudes exist. Yes, it is unfortunately so that at Holmlia in Oslo, at the Furuset in Oslo and on Greenland and the Tøen in Oslo there are awe, throwing systems and women's oppression. We've heard about it for a long time. Forced marriage, domestic violence, atrocities and female circumcision exist in the new Norway – amazingly enough. Single-minded women have emerged, and they have emerged because the young, courageous minority women have taken up the fight against these vicious uncultures. The eternal dilemma in the debate on political integration is that of the fear of not being politically correct in relation to racism, many people — in the political environment, in the media — have tacitly accepted that the rights of minority women have been violated. The result has been that we have failed the children, and we have failed the women. We were very kind to distance ourselves from the stoning of Amina Lawal in Nigeria when Amnesty International asked for signature campaigns. Why is it so hard for us to talk about those women once they've landed at the Gardermoen? Is it because we're afraid to be labeled "valuable geniuses," or is it because we're afraid to be stamped as – to use the controversial word – racists? We cannot legitimize such brutal abuse. It's a social problem that concerns us all. We cannot close the debate. In the 1970s, Norwegian women wanted domestic violence on the agenda. We talked politically and personally about getting the crisis centres in place. At that time, there were no minority women in Norway. We got the crisis centers in place because we went on trains, and the Norwegian men supported us in that fight. Let's get that parole back on track -- for minority women. We must show uncompromisingness to violence. Unfortunately, it is a fact that some ethnic groups are disproportionately heavily represented in connection with domestic violence, domestic violence and crisis centres. These women are subjected to harsh justice to preserve the family's honor. There are strong signs that the repression of the groups is not necessarily religiously thought about, but culturally thought out. This means that social and cultural backgrounds can actually be a cause of repression. The collective in cultural must also be punished, even when we are going to take these traditions at the root. I wonder what kind of thoughts the Council of State has about these issues. I know we're talking about Norwegian training. I know that we're talking about meeting imams and meeting the parental regeneration. But how do you actually want to meet these challenges – when two values meet and are very, very different? Because we have equality, women's liberation and humanism on the one hand, and old, conservative and stifled values on the other. How shall we meet it with humility and love, and not with suspicion and skepticism, to help these women out of debauchery? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1194	First, I would like to thank the representative Saera Khan for addressing a very topical issue, and also because she was making a contribution now that was very thoughtful for all of us. My first starting point for this debate is that Norway is today a multicultural society. That's something we're all positive about. ‘Norwegian’ equality shall embrace women and men from different cultures and with different historical links to the traditional gender equality struggle we have waged in Norway for many, many years. Nor is it the case that Norway owns equality. Equality between women and men is a common international project based on equal opportunities and equal rights for women and men in all societies. My second starting point for this debate is that we need not be afraid to draw up any absolute limits on what we accept – for fear of encountering any groups in Norway. We do not accept violence. We don't accept a society where women feel they have to choose to be at home. Nor do we accept a society where young boys are given greater freedom than young girls. We do not accept a society where this debate is required to be held internally, and we do not accept a society in which men premise women's participation. These are universal values we must never let go of defending. Repressive mechanisms can be explained, but they must never be defended. We should say from either the oppressor defends his position on the basis of the Bible or on the basis of the Koran. Religion does not suppress. It's people who oppress. We have challenges while also seeing clear positive features, which the interpellant had to deal with. We clearly see that women who need work experience are at home, and that children who need language stimulation are not in kindergarten. We also have to recognise that the cash support works negatively and prevents us from getting the integration that will be important. This should take both the trailers and the opponents of the cash support seriously. But we also see the descendants of non-Western immigrants now above the average among those between 19 and 24 years of age who actually take higher education in our country. We know that the women here are very well represented. The debate on which the representative Khan has taken the initiative is not always as simple. We have many dilemmas, and I believe that what is pointed out here is much of the core of what we are struggling with throughout the debate on immigration – not only in Norway, but throughout Europe, which we have also seen in very clear examples, among other things. Denmark. I want to point to two very clear relationships that kind of show some of the dilemmas we're facing. We have had a discussion several times in Norway about religious headgear and whether this is an expression of oppression or whether it is an expression of religious freedom. Is it e.g. subversive of a woman wearing hijab? I mean, it's not. The debate over the last few days has been on whether it is possible to sell clothing wearing hijab. If women, on the basis of social pressure, dress so that we can't even see their faces, yes, then we've crossed a limit to what I think is acceptable in an equal society. It's not certain that prohibition is the way to go, but I don't want a society where women are so covered that it obviously places clear limits on their social life. So to another dilemma: coercion. Everyone here is very clear that we are going to ban coercion. In addition, many would say that arranged marriages are a cultural phenomenon to be accepted as a society, if the young people themselves accept it. But have we been willing to take this debate in the way we should perhaps? How many coercive marriages are defended by the fact that it was an arranged marriage? How much pressure is a girl or a boy subjected to in the direction of marrying the family that they want? If a young boy or a young girl experiences a strong pressure to break up with a girlfriend you want to share your life with, I think we're talking about a social coercion that's not acceptable – even though it seems outwardly that this is an arranged marriage. The debate on the coercion that lies in many of the so-called arranged marriages must be taken, and it concerns us all. Also within this area we see that there are some things that it is politically correct to mention. But I ask the question whether we are actually brave enough to go in and challenge some of the concepts we are diligent to use as a defense that a repression – perhaps – will still be allowed to take place. Keeping a woman outside of Norwegian and Norwegian languages strengthens the man's power and influence over the family and over the economy of the family. We know that lack of economic independence is one of the main obstacles to gender equality. For this reason, language understanding and association with the labour market are the most important means of responding to the questions asked by the interpellant. We need to promote equality among women from linguistic, ethnic and cultural minorities. I think even there's one answer that will prove to be right. It's giving the young girls education, a long education, which gives them the opportunity to stand up to some of the resistance they experience and to which culture is an expression. In this way, they also get a basis for starting their own life with an economic security that means that the ties to the family will not be so strong. Through participation in the world of work, we know that a cultural understanding is being achieved, that a person is gaining language skills, that a person is getting a knowledge of rights and duties, and that networks are being set up. Labour relations provide an economic independence, self-determination and, if necessary, a key to freedom for women living in violent relations, under threats of coercion or other honour-related violence. We also need to see immigrant women as a clear and powerful resource for our society. We need to make far greater use of our skills in value creation. And integrating immigrant women also means integrating their children. The participation of minority-speaking children in kindergarten helps mothers to become acquainted with Norwegian society through contact with other parents and kindergarten workers. We are aware that in 2006 a pilot project was launched in Oslo offering free core time for all 4- and 5-year-olds in the City of Stovner in Oslo. This measure focuses on recruiting children who did not already have kindergarten. In addition, a follow-up is carried out by minority leaders to ensure Norwegian knowledge. During the year, the scheme will be extended to all 4- and 5-year-olds also in the districts of Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand in Oslo. The Government has decided to draw up new action plans against coerciveness, as well as against gender and other honour-related violence. These plans shall include prevention, empowerment, assistance where necessary and after-care, and will focus in particular on the role of public service provision in prevention. Norwegian society is based on gender equality and gender equality. Minority ethnic women have the same right to be granted their rights and to take advantage of their opportunities and talents as other Norwegian women. It is an important message for all women in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1230	I thank the Council of State for a very informative and knowledgeable article! It is very rare that in the tabloid debate on integration we get to the depth of things. Some of my frustrations have been that we always discuss these issues every time someone is abducted, every time someone gets coerced or killed. That is why I am pleased that we can have a thorough debate on this in the storeroom, where we can actually take responsibility and do something about the demanding challenges. I very much appreciate what the Council of State comes with. I have a specific question first. It's going to the crisis centers. We know that crisis centres, for example. in Oslo, in Bærum, even in Hol, women with a minority background are overcrowded. That doesn't necessarily mean that that's how Ali beats more than Ola. But we know that minority women don't have networks. We know that for very many minority women it's a shame to leave their husband because divorce is taboo, while for us who are Norwegian women, it's a shame to stay with a man if he denies you. My question is: does the Council know about the crisis centres have a good enough offer to meet these women with competence – in culture, in diversity, in language and in capacity? And what can be done better there? I have another question: I think it's very interesting what the council is pulling up here, in relation to the grey zone between coercion and arranged marriage. Forces are physically forced — you are now married and abducted — and it is easy to define. But if you go into an arranged marriage because you want to satisfy your parents' or your family's or others' needs, I think it's psychologically coerced. How will the Council of State engage in dialogue with minority youth born and raised in Norway to clarify that grey zone, to define what a forced marriage is, and what an arranged marriage is? And, how many arranged marriages are coercion? I also have a third question: My party colleague Arild Stokkan-Grande, who is an immigration politician for the Workers' Party on the Stortinget, went out with a very inspiring and exciting play: a human role selection aimed at the minority communities. We have had a human role selection in Norway before – led by Jens Stoltenberg – which actually created a lot of debate, and it happened quite a lot on the equality policy front after that. I know that the Council of State is very pleased with what happened then. Does the Council of State believe that a human role selection aimed at men with a minority background can be exciting and creative? Will the Council of State be involved in that? Which parties in the minority communities will the Council of State talk to? In the debate, we give imams a lot of space and a lot of power. But are they really the ones that have something to say? Is it that when Fatima's going to be coerced, Mom calls the imam? I don't think so. I think she's calling Grandma in Pakistan and asking her to find ten marriage candidates and approve one of them. Why are we giving so much power to the religious leaders? Maybe we should bet on the parental regeneration. How much power are we going to give to each of the parties involved, and how are we going to get them to talk to each other?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1243	I'm going to try to deal directly with the questions I got – first of all, the situation related to the crisis centres. It's quite right, as the representative says, that immigrant women are in fact in total numbers in the crisis centers we have around the country today. We see that there is a very clear need to improve the entire supply within the crisis centres. One thing is that there is an actual offer when you have come to a crisis centre, with more technical assistance, assistance, guidance – but we see very clearly that many people need far better protection than what you get when you get out of the crisis centre. The government is working to get a law enforcement in place. It would be important if we were to reach an equivalent offer across the country. But I think we have to admit – and look back at history – what the crisis centre movement has been. There have been many beautiful, competent women around the country who have volunteered to make an offer that the public has not been able to give in a good enough way. That's why it's important for the government that we now be able to take account of, and facilitate, a qualitatively far better offer than what we actually have. With regard to grey-zone issues, forced marriages and arranged marriages, there are clearly demanding and difficult debates. There are many stories that tell exactly what the representative was about – that many people are being subjected to a long-term mental pressure that means that they do not have enough resistance to say that this marriage is not for me an arranged marriage, but actually a forced marriage. We come back to the dilemmas we face in our entire integration debate: how do we manage to reach out with good information? I would also like to say that it is probably also that the equality process that is in force in Norwegian policy in this area, makes us not quite dare to go in and pluck away from the individual's individual freedom. I think we have to do that. We need to have a government that is not fair in relation to its actions if we are to be able to give clear answers to what the representative is dealing with in his statement. In the end, very briefly: in relation to men and gender equality in the immigrant communities, the Government has decided, as the first country in the world, to present its own comprehensive report on gender and gender equality, based on a recognition that 20 years ago, after the Mannsrollecommittee to Jens Stoltenberg, there has been an enormous amount of happening. We also see that in this field, we have major challenges in relation to boys who are immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1254	Let me first get the rose interpellant because she has taken up this important matter. Let me then say that I look forward to a good and exciting report on men and gender equality, which will also deal with the issues that are being raised in this debate. Equality is about equal rights, and equality is about equal opportunities. It's true whether we have one or the other cultural or ethnic background, whether we have one or the other sex, and whether we're young or old. The strength of good welfare societies, and the strength of strong democracy, is that we see the value of everyone having equal opportunities, that we manage to involve everyone, let everyone go, and let everyone contribute. In Norway, I thought we've come quite far. We're pretty good, but we're not good enough. We have a longer way to go – the interpellant has shown many good examples of it – whether it is within policy, within business or within other areas of society. Women today are not well represented. There are too many men who are too afraid of their own positions, their own places, and who do not let go of women as we should do. It also applies in relation to child care. There men, fathers, must take greater responsibility, but they must also be allowed to take responsibility. Some mothers simply have to let go of their fathers – give the man the opportunity to be a father. It'll be good for many fathers, it'll be good for many children, and it won't be at least a commitment to get on with gender equality work, even in other areas, for example. in relation to employment and the ability to be economically independent and independent. We have tools that are decisive to do this, and that we have to build on further. In school and study contexts, I think that in many cases we see very positive and good trends, where girls with a minority background do not stand back for other groups of students in any way, rather the opposite. This will have a good impact on participation in the next round of work and society. Something that you can never have enough focus on is language. The mastery of language is absolutely essential to be able to participate in the working and social life or else. The introduction programme, as the individual right it is, is very important for minority speakers – whether women or men – to be equipped to participate in the labour market. It's about language first and foremost, but it's not least about social and cultural understanding, it's about rights and duties, and it's about networks and social communities -- values that the interpellant was also very busy with in his article. In order for the introduction programme to be even better, we need to work even more on different actions for individuals after the implementation of the programme. Another example of important schemes for more and better integration and gender equality is free core time in kindergarten. Early childhood education is important for minority language children — for their childhood and for their participation in adult society. But it is also important for parents, and perhaps not least for women. For kindergartens, there is also a place for social networking, for contact with other young children’s parents and for use in kindergartens. Kindergarten gives both parents, both mother and father, the opportunity for professional participation. One last point is culture. Participation and involvement, created by culture and volunteering, must become an even more important entrance sport for women and young girls with a minority background. We're going to implement a year of cultural diversity next year. There we have to have the ambition that we really get the women to talk – through a lack of expression. It is not least important for the cultural field itself. And then we have to continue to strengthen and develop different schemes that recruit and include young girls with a minority background within different cultural expressions, within voluntary participation and within sport. These were some examples of schemes that I think we need to invest more in, and that would allow minority women to participate on equal lines with Norwegian women. In addition, in my opinion, there are examples of areas in which the Progress Party is not busy, which do not care about or prioritize, because this, like otherwise, becomes a lot of talk and little action. The party prioritizes the tools that allow us to move forward, both in integration and in gender equality. The rest of us have to give it priority up and down. There are several measures and other measures. The ones I've been busy with here, I think I'm some of those who are important for gender equality, and that women, whether they have a minority background or not, should be able to be equal to men. It eats up women in our country. Either they have one or the other cultural origin and the background, whether they're from one or the other part of the country, it's an obligation we have as a society that we can do the same thing for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1288	The representative Saera Khan is to be commended for addressing this issue. There is, to the most extent, a relevant and important issue that needs to be addressed, and so far the Progress Party has unfortunately been the only party that has pointed in the right direction to do something about it. What we're talking about here is basically cultural issues, which part of the immigrant community has taken with them from the old country, and which do not go away because they live in Norway. On the contrary, they are taken with them and continued to practice attitudes without being brought to life – that is, a negative part of the immigrant culture. What really has been the problem here is that they – I was saying – face the problematic aspects of the culture that parts of the immigrant environment have chosen to retain, of fear of stigmatising, have not dared to raise the issues high enough. It has not least clearly expressed the feminists on the left when they want to use the law to transfer women into the boardrooms, but they are silent when it comes to proposals such as the effective use of the law to stop forced marriage and the effective use of the law to stop sexual mutilation. The multicultural ideology, cultural-relativistic thinking in the face of other cultures, is what has really been the great bend here and the great ‘stopper’ to put in place good solutions. I understand today, both from the Council of State and not least from the representative Khan, a great willingness to perhaps see that issue, that one has been for the detention of fear of stigmatizing. That is exactly what the Progress Party has been saying for decades, namely that in Norway we have certain values, certain fundamental rights that should apply to all. Whether we're talking about democracy, freedom, tolerance, equality or equality, it's going to apply to everyone. We don't have any cultural-relationsist ideas in front of other cultures. People who come from other cultures and live in Norway must be so good at adapting to the Norwegian values, the Western values on which our society is founded. Then equality is an important part of this. The government may have disagreed with its so-called dialogue work to hold back, continue and make those attitudes even stronger. When you choose to engage in dialogue, promote religious leaders, imams, as representatives of the immigrant community, you bring up those people who may be strongly in favor of reactionary, conservative attitudes. That dialogue was wrong. It has been decided to lift up and bring forward religious leaders in a way that has hampered the liberation of immigrant women. There is also something changing governments should take with them. So it's about having some absolute demands when you choose to live in Norway – demands for values that we all have to accept and that we should all build our lives on. But then maybe what I call cultural barriers is an unnecessary obstacle in many contexts. Now I'm referring to the hijacking debate that the Council of State pulled out. The fact that you are dealing with an employer who does not want the employee to use hijab is problematic in itself. If you are required by law to force an employer to accept hijab, it is also more difficult for other women with Muslim backgrounds to enter the labour market, because employers who may not want employees using hijab would not be able to hire them. Unfortunately, I think that there is also a wrong path, but it is therefore about having clear standards and clear rules – and convey it clearly, as the Progress Party has done for decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1305	Also, I would like to thank the interpellant who addresses some incredibly important questions, which I would like us to have had much longer time to discuss. I would also like to thank the Council of State for very insightful and inspiring answers. The Council of State points out that Norway is a multicultural country. Yes, we are. That means we have many identities and many stories in this country. Many of those stories are about the triple suppression of minority women: first as women in Norwegian society, then as a minority and then as women in the environment with strong patriarchal structures, as Saera Khan described in a very good way. It is precisely this Advancement Party does not see. They don't see that it's a triple suppression of women. They're just talking about culture in response to the challenges we're facing, and they're giving us simple answers. I wonder if they've spoken to the minority women's sails. We have come a long way here in Norway, but it is because of a long and tough fight, not least against the forces represented by the Progress Party. We, who have fought for the liberation of women here in Norway, have obligations to stand side by side with minority women. We have a duty to help carry on their struggle – not for them, but with them. One of the things we should do a lot more is make visible the strong women who have taken the seashore. It has been too easy to make them invisible, whether it has been the MiRA Centre, the head of Somali Women's Association or, for that matter, Kadra. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State points out so strongly that minority women have the same rights and resources as other Norwegian women, and that lack of economic independence is one of the main obstacles to equality between women. Yes, we've learned that lesson, and it also applies to minority women. If minority women are excluded from Norwegian language and social life, it is just what the Council of State said, namely that man’s power towards women is increasing. Therefore, the right to work is also an important minority case. I have to say I'm startled when I see the number of women who are kept out of work, and those who have work, certainly have both low pay and low status. When the introduction programme was discussed, SV argued that the programme should also be a right for women on family reunification and that they should have children’s gardening space automatically. Last week I heard some terrible stories about the situation of women who do not receive automatic training in Norwegian and who do not receive automatic training in what kind of rights they have in Norwegian society. The council had two issues that I had planned to address, namely kindergarten and cash support. It is true that a place in the good community arena, the nursery, could give children with minority parents the opportunity to learn Norwegian, and that minority women could have it as a meeting venue. In parallel with better childcare provision, especially among one- and two-year-olds, there has been a general decrease in the use of cash support. The worrying fact is that, among the minority population, there has been an increase in the use of cash support. Then you might ask yourself, "Why is that?" Well, I'm sure it's related to, among other things, low incomes and poor employment levels, but at least this means that cash support becomes a financial support scheme that keeps children out of kindergartens, thus preventing integration. That is why it is so important for us that we are now re-launching the debate on the cash support, and at least make sure that it is liquidated when we have full child care coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1320	Participation in the labour market is important for social contacts, for self-confidence and for economics. Women's work and income can also have a positive effect on home equality and equality. When both spouses are economically independent and have independent networks, they are also less vulnerable to oppression and exploitation. This is precisely why it is important to facilitate the participation of more women with a minority background in professional life. Increased participation in professional life among minority women is also important to strengthen their ability to be good role models and limiters for their children. Moreover, there is no doubt that Norway needs more people with a minority background to participate in the labour market. We need their resources, we need their experience, and we need their innovative ideas. If we are to succeed in getting more women with a minority background into work, more attention needs to be paid to training. Christian People's Party and I are pleased that the Government proposes training measures to address the needs of minority women in particular. Training must be labour-oriented and organised so that it can be carried out in combination with the domestic tasks of women. Training may need to be carried out in parallel with the day of school. Norwegian skills, the absence of discrimination and the possibility of kindergarten are concrete and practical prerequisites for the participation of several minority women in the labour market. It is also important that people with a minority background who have prominent positions in society are presented as good examples of the possibility for everyone to participate in and succeed in the Norwegian labour market. Not long ago, we got our first female District Court rulings with a minority background. Her name is Selma Ilyas, who is 31 years old and has a background both from Norway and Pakistan — a brilliant example of the abilities and resources of minority women. Kindergarten is a key to integration for both women and children. It is problematic that many children with a minority background have too poor Norwegian skills when they start school. Therefore, we need to disseminate the free core time available in the kindergarten for four- and five-year-olds to several municipalities where there is a high proportion of minority-speaking children, and consider extending the offer to three-year-olds. Kindergarten is essential for the participation of minority women in society. Children's playgrounds allow them to participate in the workplace, while providing them with a valuable network through contact with other parents through kindergarten. Women with a migrant background have a low level of employment. This must be addressed by both public and private employers, while women themselves must be active in the labour market. We have to wait to see that the pay gap in the labour market and the connection to the labour market are related to the division of labour in the home. Therefore, it is important to stimulate fathers to take more responsibility for childcare and housework, regardless of ethnic background. In this way, increased paper issue is an important grip. Research shows that pappaperm has a long-term impact on worksharing at home, even after parental leave is over. I want to challenge the Government to continue the escalating government Bondevik started. Now the six-week cardboard paper issue, and the goal is ten weeks before the end of the ageing period. In addition, it is important that all fathers receive the right to papacy, regardless of their mother’s income and work before birth. It is particularly important for fathers with a minority background, since many mothers with a minority background do not have acquired rights to paid parental leave. Equal rights and equal opportunities are important. In the choice of education and profession, the challenge is often that the expectations of the local environment and the structures of society do not lead to real freedom of choice in their own lives. We're too bound by traditions and habits. Here we all have a challenge! Our attitudes and opinions are shaped and developed at an early age. School is an important arena. We need a school that actively contributes to the inequalities leading to increased tolerance and positive interest in what is different. I would like to have had time to say a little more about cash support, but I just want to remind you that it is important that everyone, including the immigrant women, has a real freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1348	The central party believes that participation is both a commitment to integration and a measure of the extent to which we have been closed in creating a society for all. Our whole democratic system is based on the principle of participation and everyone's participation in being able to influence the direction our society is going to take. This starting point shows how important it is that someone raises such debates, as Mr Khan has done here today. The ball is the most important traveler we have in society to achieve the goal of ensuring participation for everyone. The values we pass through the school must clearly underline the goal of participation for everyone and that we do not accept attempts to keep anyone out of our capacity to participate. The requirement for participation is knowledge, and once again our education system is one of the keys, but we also have other cards to play with. The voluntary sector plays a key role in the work of participation. We must have a goal of strengthening the voluntary sector, so that he can play an even more important role. Culture and volunteering give opportunities to meet different groups in society in a completely different way from public Norway, and to participate in arenas in which everyone can recognize themselves, whatever the background. The debate that the inter-pellant is giving us is challenging not only as parliamentarians but also as members of our respective parties. The party has a good starting point for running both democracy training and giving people tasks that require participation, whether it is as trustees in the party organisation or it is through elected authorities. Perhaps political women's organisations have the very best position to meet women who, for different reasons, have lower participation than others? The central party is one of the parties that through their association has a project directed at Somali women. I am also aware that other parties are working towards e.g. minority groups. Let me just briefly comment on the hijab debate, where I thought the council gave a very wise answer. The centre party also does not believe that the right way is to promote equality and tolerance. Rather, on the contrary, we must not fall into the trap that in an attempt to promote precisely equality and tolerance, we give ourselves into some sort of secular fundamentalism that prevents people from marking belongings and identities. Then we'll reduce the number of people instead of strengthening it. So the representative Ågot Valle later pointed out in the debate on cash support, which she claimed prevents women in the immigrant community from participating in the labour market. Ågot Valle is entitled to the fact that the use of cash support has increased slightly among immigrant women, but there are no statistics to suggest that migrant women disappeared from the labour market in large quantities when cash support came. Nor is there anything to suggest that we will be given a huge impression by immigrant women of the disappearance of the system. It is also important to stress that, according to the government statement, cash support is to be reversed when full child-care coverage has been reached. No action has been taken to remove it. In this way, the post of the representative Valle was a little misleading. Let me end by stressing that we must have zero tolerance in relation to power and oppression, whether it happens through coercion, sexual mutilation, or mental threats, and the same who or the groups it frames in society. The fight against violence and oppression must focus largely on the time to come, and today's debate suggests that we still have a long way to go before we win that fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1364	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important topic, also an important equality theme, which I think goes a lot beyond many of the gender equality debates we have in this room. That's why it's also very funny that this is the first equality debate I've been to here where there's been so many boys. It's obvious that this engages a little bit wider than many others. As social liberals, I am part of a tradition of Fredrikke Marie Qvam, Aasta Hansteen and all the ladies who a hundred years ago sacrificed quite a lot for us, Norwegian women, to have the rights that we have today. Turning cultures, turning trends and breaking out in relation to cultures requires an actual sacrifice quite a lot to do. When Asta Hansteen went up over Karl Johan, she had a series of little boys after herself who called her things, who threw things at her, and who told me she wasn't much worth as a citizen of Norway. The distinction between coercion and arranged marriages is very difficult, but as a big community is the most important job we have to do, to make sure that all those who dare to talk, all those who dare to break out, all those who dare to say what they mean, will get all the support they can get. Then the boundary has to be crossed by the individual, who has to feel when the boundary is there. There are quite a number of important measures we can take to make them dry and to make them feel that they have ‘backing’ to do so. Our school system is usually very important, including having a school that may once again begin to focus a little more on what rights you have, what opportunities you have, and that you should never accept that someone is pushing your rights. We must not lean back and believe that these are the velvet debates, as I call them, about equality, which are the important ones. Perhaps you need to go back to basic rights in a society and to right teaching to make it clear what you really shouldn't find out, and how to fight back against those who are trying to violate your rights. The left has adopted a new programme for integration. One of the ideas we've put forward in that programme is to put in place a mentoring system. Many of those who come to Norway feel that they have a small social network in Norway, they have few Norwegian friends, and they have few who can explain them the cultural codes. If you look at those who are well integrated and who succeed in Norwegian society, many of them have had Norwegian mentors – the friend of their mother, teacher or whoever it is – who have helped them up and down in different ways, who have told them how to work, how to get it, and what is important to give priority. Such mentors are someone they can discuss with, who actually understands the Norwegian community and not just the society Mom and Dad come from. It can also help many adult immigrant women. I had a visit here at Stortinget to a school class in Norwegian, and when I asked if they wanted mentors with the same background as themselves, or if they wanted mentors who were Norwegian, I felt that the answer from everyone was: We want more Norwegian friends. The second is that once we've got the introduction course in place and it's starting to work, we have to see if it also needs to be expanded in relation to family reunification. Here it was suggested earlier that this might be primarily for women. I think this is primarily for men, because there are a lot of the men who are being picked up for family reunion, who could have had a very good introduction course where they also learned a little bit about Norwegian norms and rules, and that they actually have the right to learn the sails if they're on family reunion. Now probably the background for the long Norwegian-course queues in Oslo is rather complex, but if you go into it – and I encourage the Council of State to do that – you get a much more complex picture of what the challenges are on the integration side, which I don't have time to get into. I agree with the Progress Party that there are very many of the Western values that it is worth fighting for – the difference between the Left and the Advance Party is that for the Advance Party it is important to tell that there are some outside, and they just have to be outside. But I come from a liberal party, and liberalism is always fighting. That means that we always want to take in those who are outside, while populism, on which the Progress Party leans, is a condemning ideology that primarily tells who should be inside, and who should be outside. I want to be part of and fight -- I want to be part of and care about -- for more people to be within the liberal values of our society based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1383	First, I also want to join those who have praised Saera Khan for promoting this important interpellation, and that we think it is good that such an important theme is discussed widely in this Chamber as well. Gender equality has come a long way in Norway, but at the same time women live within the country's borders under conditions that we may need 100–200 years back in time to identify among ethnic Norwegian women. We hear about pressure and coercion when it comes to marriage. We're hearing about pressure, covering and cutting. We hear about domestic violence. We hear about women who stay at home with responsibility for children and chores at home. The equality struggle has come a long way in Norway. We should remember that we're among the world's leading people, and that many who come here have a lot to learn from us in this field. At the same time, it is important that we avoid making minority women poorer in this debate. There are also resource-intensive women who go with hijab. It is important that we engage men in this debate first and foremost. There is a tendency that most people view minority women as weak people who almost don't understand their own best, when the problems are really the role of men. Men are responsible for getting away to women in the workplace and in society. Men are often the problem in this matter, but at the same time men represent the solution. Men must also be allowed to escape, for example. in family life and in relation to taking responsibility for common children. Per-Willy Amundsen claimed from this pulpit that the Progress Party has been alone in Norway to fight for minority women's rights. In my opinion, it will be just as stupid as if the Progress Party should now come and take credit for the fact that, after all, there are so many women represented in the organisation and working life in Norway. The party of progress has always been opposed to the measures we have seen in retrospect have been effective and wise. Thus, while the Progress Party later appears to be in favour of minority women's rights, the measures it proposes to implement are precisely going to affect these women. The progress party will take the money from mothers who do not teach their Norwegian children. It is tempting to ask the Progress Party: How many more children will learn Norwegian if their parents are deprived of social security? The Progress Party requires minority women to learn Norwegian, take a job course, etc. At the same time, the Progress Party is the warmest follower of cash support, which we see all over Europe, leading to minority women being at home responsible for domestic tasks. The Progress Party has supported the Danish model of coercion, which leads to women being coercive, but placed in the country of origin of their parents, pending the achievement of age requirements. We've got reports that it doesn't help women against coercion, but it's probably also here such a tactic that it's out of sight, it's out of mind. We have had a debate on trafficking and trafficking in human beings in the United Kingdom earlier this year. There was the aim of the Progress Party to remove these women from the streetscape – not to help them, but to prevent the Olso citizens from seeing them. Tybring-Gjedde was in the pulpit here and was upset, not on behalf of the women who were hit by this cruel industry, but on behalf of the Oslo people who had to watch these women go on the street. The Labour Party believes that there is nothing but well-known social-democratic tools that would help to integrate: there is still a common public school, where everyone can go to the same school, learn from each other and break each other's attitudes. It is to make sure that everyone comes out to work, and to make sure that everyone can get a home that they themselves enjoy, and where they want to live. Even a person like Hege Storhaug says that the common school may be the most important tool we have in Norway today to succeed in integrating it. The party of progress will pulverise and privatise the public common school. As far as work is concerned, the Progress Party has at least no measures to get women to work. The Progress Party believes that the market alone should control the housing market. It's a saying that you don't have to be very smart to be critical. No, the Progress Party is able to be critical, but finding measures that actually work, that actually help these women, they can't.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1404	I had a hope that this would be a good debate. And it has not only become a good debate, it has become a very good debate, also because there are so many young men who have participated in it – and it's great. I think it is important that we are humiliating ourselves to the fact that there are several ways of being Norwegian in 2007, and that is what this debate is also about. In that range, we must not forget that immigrants or minorities are not a homogeneous group. Here we have everything from Muslims, atheists, Sikhs, Catholics, humaneists, Vietnamese, Pakistani, Indians, Iranians, Persians, Danishs and Swedishs. It's incredibly important to be aware of when we're going into a debate where there's a lot of dynamite and huge explosives. It's also important not to paint black, because those who do the best in Oslo school today are actually the immigrant girls. A lot of immigrant girls finish high school and do it really well in college, at colleges and at universities. Their problem is that they are not allowed to choose their own spouse and have to drop education for that reason. While our immigrant boys sit on the street and beat each other or sit behind the prison doors – yes, not all. So there's also explosives and tension in the gender role pattern among minority youths. Everyone agrees that we need to take this debate seriously, and integration has become a popular mantra that everyone is talking about. We have replaced the term ‘integration’ and now use the word ‘integration’, so verbally we have come very far. What I want is concrete measures, efficiency and action. When I heard the inauguration of the Council of State instead, I became very optimistic, and I am excited about what the Stoltenberg government is now doing before the 2009 elections. We know that minority women are very good at voting. In Oslo, for example, minority women are the ones who are the best at cumulating on the lists. There are very many ethnic Norwegian women who have something to learn from minority women, so it is important not to blackmail the situation. So to the Progress Party: I think it's very interesting that a party that opposed sex quotaing, which has been dedicated to abolishing the gender equality Ombudsman, who has been involved in cash support that ensures that minority women do not get out of the house and thus do not teach Norwegian, who have countered all the major gender equality policy reforms, suddenly now in 2007 shows a touching concern for minority women. What exactly is the Progress Party going to want? Are they busy with women for women? Or are they concerned about nagging under prejudices and creating more of the famous people's disease stranger's fear? I think the Progress Party must go into its own home. We know that they have a very large population here in this room, but only under ten of the population representatives are women. What are the ladies in the Progress Party really doing? Do they have power, or do they cook coffee?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1424	As the interpellant, I would like to thank you for an inspiring and very constructive debate. Like the inter-pellant, I think it is very gratifying that in this debate on equality there have been so many men who have participated – it actually matters. So it's also so that this is clearly a subject that engages very widely in politics, and I think the big picture is that we agree quite on the political measures, perhaps with the exception of one party, the Progress Party, which still has a too narrow starting point in what it will be right to do. Because unlike the Progress Party, we think it's quite obvious that if we're going to aim for a more equal society, we also have to engage in dialogue with the environments. At the same time, we have to have foolish and courageous measures that enable us to capture the girls who are not allowed to move naturally around in our society. I want to say that we must also be able to dry up into a dialogue with religious leaders. We're not going to make them anything more than what they actually are, or give them more status, but we have to recognize that there's also an impact on the value anchoring of large groups in the religious environments. I also want to ask the question to the Progress Party: what do you think would be the answer if you had asked a very honest question to the immigrant community about what kind of vision these groups would give their support to? Is there the solution of the Advance Party in these questions, or is it the red-green government? I am absolutely convinced, as the inter-pellant also pointed out, that the policy it has been put up for in these fields by the Progress Party has not helped to achieve more inclusion. But it is legitimate to use the immigrant women as a matter of promoting their vision when it suddenly becomes timely to do so. But when we look at the political history of the Progress Party has on this point, we know that their answers will not be the right policy. Finally, I would like to say that the interpellant can have very good faith in the Government. Through many different departments, a number of measures are under way, ranging from working life to different gender policies. This is about having specific measures in the field of family protection and the introduction programme. We are also working to increase international cooperation in order to raise these issues. We look at the role of men, which will be crucial to finding answers to the challenges. In addition, we also have our own competence programmes for women. But all the good proposals in this field will be received with thanks, regardless of the political colour.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1437	The Interpellation Debate on Case No. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1455	It could be tempting after such a tirade to take the floor on the previous matter, but of course I will not. First, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister of Agriculture and Food on the extremely rapid amendment of the so-called cheese regulation which was put into effect on 20 April. Thus, although this change and the way it was implemented strongly violate the signals of the Government in the Soria Moria Declaration on a predictable industrial policy, the Council of State has chosen to ignore both the declaration and hearing opinions of its government colleagues' departments. It could have been in place to praise the Council of State if this change in regulation hastened through, resulting in the removal of dangerous products from the market, but that is not the case. The Council of State here has achieved difficulties in marketing a healthy alternative – an alternative product that fits into the hands of the government's new action plan for better diet in the population 2007–2011. In particular, the action plan stated that: under Action 2.1 stimulating the product development of healthier foods and meals. Then it is a paradox that when a food producer, regardless of this action plan from the Government, develops, manufactures and markets a healthy product, the Council of State does what he can to change the framework conditions on which the product was based. Why the Council of State chose to deal urgently with this particular regulation, when the Government is working on a comprehensive review of the quality regulations, I expect that we will get an answer today. In principle, it is not appropriate to amend individual provisions in a legislative area that is under review before the revision itself is completed. At the same time, I believe it is critical that the investigation instruction is broken in this case, which has underlined the importance of the Riksrevision in previous cases. I cannot see from the hearing notes that the Council of State is fully capable of defending this decision. It is not normally the task of the Grand Duchy to deal with regulations or regulatory changes, nor do the undersigned have strong opinions as to what can or should be called cheese. But I feel it's important that the Storting has a strong focus on what framework conditions big business and government imposes, and perhaps especially on the food industry. This is an industry that is more premiscuous than others. This, in turn, may mean that there is no point in warning about critical political treatment of the industry, as fear of consequences is greater than the need for trust. It is not the first time this industry is experiencing signals or decisions that will significantly alter the framework conditions underlying large investments. It has not been long since government parties proposed a change in the customs rules for imports of further processed semi-finished products based on Norwegian raw materials. Fortunately, this decision is postponed until 1 July of this year, but if implemented, it will probably mean the hook at the door of several food producers in the country. Such a change in customs rules will be felt quite harshly in, for example: Halsa municipality, where some entrepreneurs invested over 20 million. kr and created 12 new jobs based on the old customs rules for imports of semi-finished products. How will the Council of State explain to these founders and employees the need to amend the legislation? And how does the Council of State intend to achieve the objectives of the new action plan to bring forward new producers of healthy products, when the Government is constantly changing the rules of the game? The unfortunate consequences of this kind of unforeseeable policy have been unreservedly commented on in the hearings of the Council of State colleagues in the Government. This approach to industrial policy is probably the greatest danger to jobs in districts, where we want to develop entrepreneurs. The way the Council of State has dealt with this and similar issues opens up speculations about what is the real motive for proposing amendments to regulations and laws. I understand that it raises awareness when, despite the negative signals from the Consumer Council, the National Nutrition Council, the Social and Health Directorate and the Ministry of Health and Health, chooses to run a solo run on the cheese regulations, thus removing one regulation from the overall evaluation that the Food Safety Authority has set to carry out. It is probably not accidental that the hearing notice came at the same time that a new cheese with rape and sunflower oil was launched. It is problematic that every time a product comes on the market competing with products from cooperatives, it appears that manufacturers must be prepared to receive a tough treatment from this government. It appears that protecting agricultural cooperatives from competition is of greater importance to the Government than providing cheaper and healthier food to the population. At the same time, one should not be very busy realizing that the product range of Norwegian agricultural products in this country is not close to what you can choose from elsewhere in Europe. This is the result of the cemented agricultural and industrial policy for which this and former governments have been representatives. It is therefore somewhat surprising that the Council of State in this matter has taken up its reasons for changing the regulation from an international definition of cheese, when the Government does all it can to prevent the import of precisely these cheeses into Norway through extremely high customs rates. In fact, the Council of State pursues a policy to prevent Norwegian consumers from being given the opportunity to compare international cheeses with Norwegian standard cheeses. This case clearly shows the lack of predictability that this government represents. In view of the need for a stable framework for business, I would like the Council of State to explain why a regulatory change has been introduced that has not been requested by consumers. Why is it that in this case it was chosen to disregard the investigation guide, to set a deadline for consultation of only two weeks, and to totally ignore the signals that have come from the leading professional environments in the food and health sector? It may be possible for the Council of State to clarify the rules, laws, regulations and administrative provisions governing business and the rules, laws, regulations and administrative provisions which they can expect to change, so that investment research can be carried out which could provide a predictable income potential for decision-makers. And finally, when we know that the international standards on which the Council of State bases its argument can be revised in the near future, can the Council of State decide whether all the Norwegian standards will be amended to comply with any new standards, or will this be a discretionary assessment by the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1490	As the interpellant draws up, I have proposed and implemented an amendment to the cheese regulation, so that it is now made clear that what is sold under the name cheese is to be produced from dairy ingredients and does not contain any fat other than milk fat. The change follows in the wake of the launch of a new cheese-like product on the Norwegian market. The product is sold under the name cheese, but in the product most of the milk fat is replaced by plant oils. The product is marketed with a message that it has a healthier fat composition than normal cheese, and I have no reason to doubt that it is correct. Let me first make it clear that the government wants new innovative food products to be welcomed on the market. Not least for new healthy foods. Increased consumption of unsaturated fat to replace saturated fat is part of the Government’s nutrition policy. We have no desire to hinder the marketing of these products. But I think the discussion about what can really be called a cheese should not be a nutrition debate. It is a matter of mixing nutritional interests, misleading aspects, business interests and questions of food quality, traditions, price and customs, and it is not easy to see the more fundamental aspects of the matter. I will try to sort these issues in the following way. What this is all about is just what you should be able to call a product, and not whether the product is healthy or not. I must also be allowed to point out that the interpellant presents the matter unpresist when he says that the cheese regulation changes so that cheese that is not based on milk fat can no longer be marketed as cheese. It's never been clear for cheese-like products to call themselves cheese. However, the new cheese product that has been launched has been exempted from the regulation. I believe that the exemption was granted on the basis of an unclear legal framework. That is why the cheese regulation has now been amended to make it clear which products could be placed on the market under the name cheese. The change that I have made in the cheese regulation is in line with the international cheese standard set by Codex Alimentarius, which is a standard-setting body under the UN. Codex Alimentarius standards are used in international trade, including: for the definition of products. These standards provide a point of reference for which there is an international consensus. These standards also aim to counter the misleading behaviour of consumers. The Codex Alimentarius Member States are encouraged to apply the Codex standards in the preparation of legislation. I know that the Codex standards are the starting point for many national regulations, including: several of our Nordic neighbours. The standards should also guide the Norwegian legislation. The EU regulatory framework suggests that the designation cheese should be reserved for products made exclusively from dairy products. The aim of EU legislation is to protect the consumer and to establish fair conditions of competition between milk products and competing products. These are the same reasons that I'm basing here at home in Norway. I cannot therefore see why in this situation we are going to have legislation that is different from that resulting from the international framework established and that is the law in force in many other countries. The interpellant believes that by amending the cheese regulation, I introduce a competitive advantage for products based on milk fat, at the expense of alternative products that can be healthier. I think it's the opposite: as the situation is today, the alternative cheese-like product that has just been launched has had a competitive advantage at the expense of the traditional cheeses based on milk fat. The product to which the interpellant refers is produced, as I know, in Sweden. The product is then imported into Norway to be sold at the stores here. The product is not introduced into Norway as cheese. This is possible because the product does not meet the requirements for cheese in the international cheese standard. The product is therefore not subject to the duty applicable to cheese, but to a much lower customs duty. On the Norwegian market, however, the product is marketed under the name cheese, side by side with other cheeses. This situation, I think, gives an unreasonable advantage to this product. In reality, it is the cheese-like product that has a competitive advantage and not the traditional cheeses that the interpellant here claims. In order to ensure a level playing field, it is therefore necessary to have clear and clear Norwegian legislation on which products may be marketed under different product names. I believe that this legislation should, as far as possible, correspond to the rules underpinning international trade. These rules are the most objective point of view we have, and are a set of rules on which there is international agreement. The interpellant believes that the regulatory change will create competitive conditions that go beyond products that may be healthier than cheese with milk fat. Let me repeat what I said in the introduction, that this case is not or should be a nutrition debate. Let me try to explain why. From a nutritional point of view, the new cheese-like product launched can be better than the traditional one. But we can't say that other cheese-like products will be at the next crossroads. For the sake of similarity, giving green light to call the new product cheese will pave the way for other cheese-like products based on more unhealthy but cheaper oils, also called cheese. Palm oil is an example of such an oil — cheaper to use, but not particularly good for the body. The lowest possible manufacturing costs are central to the production of different foods. Many might be tempted by the possibility of producing a cheese-like product with cheaper raw materials, if there is the possibility of putting this on the market under the name cheese. We are at risk of being in a situation where, in addition to traditional cheeses, one healthy cheese product and a large number of more unhealthy products are found. This shows that the argument that the recently launched product is healthy does not matter when we discuss the framework for what could be called cheese. So we have to get away from the nutrition discussion and get back to what is at the heart of this debate, which is a fundamental discussion of what a sales denomination of a product is supposed to mean. The cheese regulation has been amended to clarify the criteria for what cheese should be. As a result of the change, Norwegian legislation will be in line with international standards and EU legislation in this area. So the interpellant was concerned about consumer concerns, which is important. Firstly, I would like to point out that, in my opinion, it is misleading for the consumer to market a product as cheese, when it is not actually the case that it is a cheese, as it is expected to be. Some may claim that as long as the content of a product is labelled somewhere on the product, the name under which the product is sold is not so important. I disagree. For me, it is important not to water down some sales denominations based on tradition. I don't want people to have to read out to find the traditional products, or have to ask at the store. When the consumer sees a product called cheese, he or she must know what kind of product is hiding behind this term. This also applies to other products. These are quality awareness, tradition and taste. I believe that we in Norway will focus more on clear labelling in the future – not less. When it comes to new products on the market, it means that new sales denominations must be established for them. I have no doubt that it is a major challenge to find new product names, but I have great faith that it is possible to find new product types that we are now talking about. It will be in dialogue with the market that new sales denominations will be able to find their place. It is also important in the international context to agree on what is a new sales denomination. In this way, international legislation can still guide what could be used to designate a product. So finally, the debate that has arisen as a result of the amendment of the cheese regulation has shown that there are many considerations that need to be considered against each other when deciding how to regulate quality. In addition to the cheese regulation, we have a number of other quality regulations for many different products in the food sector. I can mention, for example: milk, cream, ice cream, juice, juice and chocolate. Several of these regulations are mature for revision. On this basis, the Minister of Health, the Minister of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and I have asked the Food Safety Authority to carry out a comprehensive review of the quality regulations we have in the food sector today. The aim of this review is to look at the need to regulate quality aspects in the food sector and to find solutions on how such regulation can be carried out. When the departments are now to continue to work on this theme, it will be necessary to carry out a broad assessment of the different considerations that apply in such a context. Together with my government colleagues, I will therefore focus strongly on the quality of food and the designation of food in the coming days.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1542	The Council of State gave a full answer, but I do not think he particularly touched on the point where there can be doubt about the intentions of the Council of State with the rapid treatment we have had, and that is the implementation. When we know that we have a review that the Food Safety Authority is responsible for, it seems a little funny that you can't wait for that result until you make a change. In fact, it's been so busy in this case that you've ignored the signals that the Riksrevision comes with when they have research, that you have to figure out the consequences of change. So, obviously, this is where we've been in a hurry. You also had a two-week hearing, which is unusually small in scale. I don't take my position on whether or not this is supposed to be called cheese. Also, I think you get a good name, so I don't want to discuss whether it's going to be a yes or no to the cheese name. But it'll probably be a problem to come up with a new name when you see what the trademark says about the name describing what the content is. The government itself has confirmed that at least this tastes like a cheese and perhaps also looks like an cheese, so it's exciting to follow forward. But back to the implementation. I do not think I have received a good answer as to why the matter was so urgent. It can be shown that this was a new product on the market and that this had to be responded to, but there is no doubt that there are products on the market today that are at least not under Codex. I would like to see the council flying around the shops and looking for products that do not meet the requirements. In the context of the haste you have had here, it smells something – whether or not it was to show the power of action. I don't think it was necessary, and that's why I'm taking up the question with the Council of State. It has something to do with predictability. There are many entrepreneurs who look at new products, and there are many who want to invest. We must deliver predictability to the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1551	Now, when we're about to discuss the procedure, the speed, the hearing bodies and what time is spent on it, the matter is in practice the country before it's started here in the main hall today. I must almost refer to the question asked by the representative Fostervold when he says that I do not answer the question. The representative of Fostervold asked the following questions: ‘What is the reason why the Council of State will introduce a competitive advantage for milk fat based products at the expense of alternative products that may be healthier?’ I do not know anything because the representative Fostervold in his posts is more concerned with other aspects of the matter than what I was asked to answer through the interpellation, and I find that in practice it is going on the process around this. As I said, the matter may have come to the point where it really should be in relation to size. This is a matter which has initially been dealt with in a district office in the Food Authority. Well, relative to the size of the case and the proportions in this, it might say a little bit about what you're really discussing. In the case of speed and travel, where the representative Fostervold is concerned, a derogation was granted. It's not like what I've done is the opposite of predictability, because initially it was granted a derogation from a regional agency in the Food Authority, a derogation that there was every reason to think of as questionable in relation to the intention in the cheese regulation. Once a new product had entered the market, a product in a market with a significant volume, it was precisely in order to clarify the legislation and to have in place the precise predictability that the representative here is looking for, that it seemed reasonable to take a process where we got that matter relatively quickly, so the uncertainty that that exemption provided should not last. That's the explanation, and that's also the part of this problem that I saw hung in the other posts of the representative Fostervold.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1563	The Council of State has, in my view, explained the matter well, and I think it is well-founded changes the department has made. In my view, it is both natural and logical for a product to be marketed as cheese to contain milk. I think the vast majority of us are connecting a cheese to a milk product, and as the Council of State says, we are putting ourselves here on a definition that is internationally accepted, among other things. in the EU. The argument from the interpellant is that alternative products to the traditional cheese can be healthier, and no one argues. But when you choose to draw the conclusion that the government is not interested in facilitating healthier products, since you will not allow these alternative products to be marketed as cheese, it is wrong. As the Council of State has explained, the amendment of the regulation does not in any way counter the Government's action plan on healthier diets. The government is concerned with the prevention of lifestyle diseases, and increased consumption of unsaturated fat to replace saturated fat is part of the Government’s nutrition policy. It is therefore good that such products are introduced into the market. Nor is it the case that these alternative products cannot be sold and marketed in Norway. These are the sales denominations used. There are now a number of campaigns going on, including: by the state, which is about to make the North live healthier. That's good. I am pleased that the Council of State stresses that he will follow up this work with the Minister of Health and Care and review the other quality regulations in the same way. Before Christmas there was a lot of newspaper writing about cheese substitutes that were sold under the name cheese. At the time, there were no healthy products involved, but products based on unhealthy plant oils. The point must be that in this round one does not allow an alternative product to be called cheese with the reason that it is a healthy product, as it could pave the way for other cheese-like products, based on more unhealthy ingredients, to be also called cheese. It is important that this amendment contributes to the labelling of food in such a way that consumers understand what the product is. In the next round, for example: are meat substitutes placed on the Norwegian market. I agree with those who believe that this ‘ostasis’ is important because it reveals a work of consciousness on the use of sales denominations. It is important that the Norwegian authorities contribute to the labelling of food in such a way that we consumers know what we eat. That, I thought, was principles that the Progress Party also agreed were important.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1576	Interpellant Kåre Fostervold has addressed an important theme of industrial policy. Competition policy in relation to the retail trade, including agricultural products, is important for Norwegian consumers as well as for the retail trade, the food industry and agriculture. The right point of departure is clear: competition contributes to increased diversity, lower prices and increased quality. Competition motivates producers, the food industry and the retail trade for innovation. Competition can be perceived as demanding for businesses, but the improvements that arise from a competitive situation also strengthen the ability of industry to meet challenges in the future. Therefore, the Right considers that competition on the Nordic market will improve the ability of the food industry and agriculture to cope with developments where the customs barriers are weakened and where more foreign operators enter the market. Therefore, the Right is critical of the weakening of competition policy by the red-green government. Overrun of the Competition Authority in important food-related matters, such as the Gilde-Prior merger and the Norgitter-den merger, show that we have a government that places consumer interests relatively low. The same signal was given to us when the Ministry of Agriculture and Food without a factual basis last autumn was the frontal attack on the Competition Authority for a derogation granted in 2003 related to imports of foreign oysters. We get the same signal when the Government wants to tighten up the foreign processing legislation, despite the fact that this is processing Norwegian agricultural products and good for consumers. Competition concerns are aimed at stimulating new products in the shelves that can compete with established products. As regards the cheese regulation, I still think there are arguments that draw in different directions. Consumers should be able to relate to the fact that the labelling of food is fairly precise in relation to the product they are actually buying. There's a difference between butter and margarine. There's a difference between juice and nectar. If there is an orange shower on a bottle, there should be a shower made entirely or partially of orange, inside the bottle. This argument argues that cheese should be a product based on dairy ingredients, in which case it does not contain fat other than milk fat. Nutritionally, there may be arguments related to twisting the consumption of cheese based on milk fat on healthier products based on healthier types of fat. This is a legitimate purpose. When it comes to the labelling of food, I still think it is important to run a consistent line and to assume that the product name corresponds to the product. It is also possible to market product variants with positive nutritional properties by giving them a market specificity based on the fact that they are healthier than the starting point, as is the case for the relationship between, for example. margarines and butter. Furthermore, food products are international products and there are international rules for labelling. I think it must be a good starting point for Norway to use the EU interpretation and practice in terms of the designation cheese. Strange interpretations are not necessary because there can be further uncertainty among consumers who act both in Norway and internationally. I'm a little surprised that the Minister of Agriculture and Food from the Central Party here is concerned with international harmonisation. Harmonisation of legislation will generally facilitate exports and imports, which is considered to be positive. With regard to the agricultural policy considerations in this case, i.e. to protect Norwegian milk production from competition from products based on other raw materials, this is not a relevant basis for the amendment of the regulation. Now it may be that there are agricultural policy considerations behind some of the hearings in the case. However, food authorities should take the interests of consumers into account. Unfortunately, the regulatory change process has met with some criticism of the consultation deadline. This gives the impression that there are food policy considerations behind it, a desire to protect the production of Norwegian milk. The procedure chosen by the Ministry, with two weeks of consultation on changes with major implications, creates little predictability for economic operators. With such a short consultation period and such a rapid adoption of the regulation, a more liberal transition period of at least six months should have been granted, not four months, as the Ministry has decided. The process around this matter is therefore not fortunate and can weaken the confidence of the food authorities in the practice of the prescription home. Unfortunately, lack of predictability and lack of stable framework conditions have become a feature of this government’s industrial policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1604	We have received a good report from the Council of State on the case and the course of events. Nevertheless, it is now time that we constantly need to protect the predictability of business. That's what leads to investment, that's what leads to growth, and that's what we hear, especially in the nutrition committee, when we travel all over the country: give us predictability! If they get predictability, business is adaptable enough to manage most of it. What I think is critical in this case is that even if you operate on an exemption, you have from that exemption invested. They may have been involved in product development. Agreements have been concluded. I have purchased a package. It's not that you can just turn off the switch and then start scratch. You're in possession of large warehouses, etc. Therefore, we must be able to provide predictability in our industrial policy. The criticism is that almost the same day the cheese is launched, the matter goes to a hearing. Almost 14 days later, all hearing opinions shall have been received. That consultation provided for a transitional period of two months. It leads to losses for an enterprise to operate under the type of framework conditions. I hope we don't see so many of these cases. I hope that in the future we will be able to deliver the predictability that industry needs, that future entrepreneurs are engaged in, and I hope we will have a future business policy that will facilitate the growth of products that lead to fairer food prices and better quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1615	Will the Council of State decide once that cheese is cheese? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1618	I don't think there's any need for that after the relatively short debate here. I just want to establish one thing, and that is that the Council of State is also concerned with predictability. And precisely because of the need for predictability, I have clarified the cheese regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1631	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1649	In a legal state such as the Norwegian, the legal system is entirely dependent on the confidence of the population. The courts shall be the guarantor of legal certainty, which imposes strict requirements on the exercise of the powers, competence, independence and transparency of the courts – requirements to be met shall have the necessary confidence and legitimacy in the courts. During the last decade, several major structural reforms have been carried out in the judiciary to ensure the position of the courts in society. The most important step was to separate a separate court administration with a separate board of directors. In this context, the Stortinget decided to legislate on the rules governing the admission of judges to carry out side-by-side activities. The scheme was introduced in 2002 and briefly provides for the registration of the side tasks of all judges. The purpose of the register is to ensure full transparency and that no one has to doubt the independence of the judges. The rules on the registration of side-acts apply to judges in all instances, including the Judges. The term ‘side-to-side’ includes membership, employment or other exposures to, or to, undertakings, organisations, associations or bodies of a country, county or municipality. It was also decided that, in some cases, the lateral action must be approved before the judge can take on the task. This applies to tasks which may lead to the right of the Judge to be incapacitated, which may result in a reduction in the duties of the Judge, an assignment in business, a private dispute resolution, a member of the Arbitration Court, etc. But despite these limitations, we still see a trend in which some judges have many side-effects alongside the judiciary. Today's Business presented before Christmas a statistics showing that four out of 19 judges in the Supreme Court participated or have recently participated in arbitration. Several of the judges in the Borgarting Lawyers' Court have also participated in arbitration, and a rapid check on the judicial administration's records of the judges' side tasks shows that judges also participate in arbitration in other courts and tribunals. In addition, it may appear that judges are becoming increasingly sought after in various investigations. Last time we saw it in the Valla case, where the first-aider Nils Erik Lie took part in the investigation committee. Some of the side-effects are extensive. This applies to arbitration and other matters such as investigations or private placements. Today's Business has referred to judges who must have served more as arbitrators than in their ordinary duties as judges. This development raises many problems. There are many tasks that judges are particularly suitable to deal with based on their independence and training in many aspects, and in many areas of society there will be a need for the specific competences of the judges. This is why, for example: many judges appointed by public authorities. Side-to-side activities may also help to give judges greater insight into society and understanding of society that will benefit them in their judgment. Moreover, of course, judges have the same right as everyone else to participate in organisations and to take up duties. However, it becomes problematic when side tasks can help to raise questions about the stability and independence of the individual judge. If the impression is created that some judges represent special interests, parties or opinions through their side tasks, it is very unfortunate because it may damage the confidence of both the courts and the judges. The principle of independence must be fundamental to the rule of law. I also believe that questions can be asked about the independence of judges at a more general level, when a judge can more than double his salary by taking side-steps as an arbitrator. It also becomes problematic when side tasks become so many or so extensive that it goes beyond the ordinary work of a judge, and questions have been raised by several teams about the time spent by some judges and the practices that exist in relation to this in some courts. The High Court Justice, Tore Schei, has addressed both the Justice Committee in our meetings with the Supreme Court and has stated to several media that he is critical of the practice of co-operation by judges, among others. because it may affect daily work. According to Today's Business, Schei's position is that judges have to be very restrictive about what they do outside of work, and that many have too many and too demanding tasks next to the court. I have to say that I share Scheis's skepticism that too many judges take on too many side tasks. If we are to have a balance in the criminal justice chain, the trial period at the courts must be reduced, and the Stortinget has therefore adopted requirements for the trial period. The Courts and the Courts have done a great deal of work to reduce the length of proceedings, and several courts, both at first and second instance, are complying with the Grand Duchy’s demands. For the first time in the measurement period, the number of warrants is overall within the target of average criminal proceedings in 2006. For civil matters, there is also a growing tendency for the district courts to come within the target. But the situation is not as good in law. For criminal proceedings with law enforcement, the average in 2006 was 6.2 months, with co-judgment 5.2 months and for other criminal cases 4.6 months. This is above Stortingen's requirement for a period of three months. Nor in civil matters do all law enforcement authorities comply with the requirements of the Grand Duchy for an average six-month period of proceedings, and it is in particular civil engineering law that has the longest duration of proceedings and the highest number of penalties, both in civil and criminal matters. For example, in the case of criminal proceedings in the field of co-judicial law, Borgarting had: an average duration of proceedings of seven months and 11.7 months for civil appeals, i.e. far above the requirements of the Storting in six months. The administration of the Court of Justice has given priority to monitoring the processing time at Borgarting, and I therefore believe that there is reason to ask whether one of the reasons why Borgarting is unable to meet the requirement may be that many judges in this court of law have numerous and partly extensive side-effects. In that case, this is an unfortunate practice. A balance in the criminal justice chain can only be achieved by providing for the duration of proceedings, and it is an important principle of legal certainty that a case should be decided quickly – of course also in a quality manner – so that both the victim and the defendant can obtain clarification and get on with their lives. I also record that questions have been raised about the proper functioning of the registration of the judges' side tasks. An amount limit of NOK 200000 is currently indicated and it has been claimed that there should be no limit as the amount does not determine whether there are so-called conflicts of interest. The same objection has also been raised in relation to ownership below 10 p.m. not to be registered, and it is claimed that if such a register is to have a value, all potential conflicts of interest must be openly declared, without exception. It is five years since we put in place the side-tasks register and the system for approving certain side-to-side tasks. This has made it possible for us today to have a system that ensures greater transparency and transparency of justice, depending on the trust and legitimacy of the people. However, I believe that the practice of judges having many and/or extensive side-effects raises several issues related to the independence and impartiality of the judges. There is also reason to ask questions about this affecting the effectiveness and length of proceedings of the Court, which in that case weakens legal certainty. I would therefore like to ask what the Minister of Justice will do to get a clearer practice on the side-effects of judges both in terms of resource use and the more fundamental aspects of the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1694	The access of judges to the holding of side tasks represents an ever-dimension. The interpellant has explained well the dilemmas we see. The primary task of the judges in the courts must be seen in the context of society’s needs for judicial competence in other fields and the need for judges to acquire knowledge of other areas of society. Different considerations are therefore opposed to each other in the assessment of the ability of judges to carry out side-by-side tasks. Central considerations that may speak against side-effects may be that trust in the courts and the judges may be harmed if the side-effects of the judges give the impression that the judges represent special interests or attitudes — as the interpellant also pointed out. The principle of independence also runs counter to side-effects. Judges shall be impartial and independent in their activities. Some side tasks may give the impression that bonds are created that are unlucky. Such bonds may impede the function of an independent judge. Side-to-side activities may also affect the efforts of the principal function as a judge and affect the pace of case resolution. The need for society to benefit from the specific experience and position of judges is an important factor in the ability of judges to perform side-by-side tasks. There I would like to mention that we are, for example: have a number of public authorities, investigations and investigations where we benefit in particular from judges from Norwegian courts. Side-to-side activities may also provide judges with wider societal insights that may be relevant to the work of judges. The judges also have the same civil rights as everyone else, including those of the European Parliament. to organise and to join other organisations. The wish for a broad and good recruitment to judicial positions may also mean that judges are allowed to have different types of side-effects. The regulation of the right of judges to hold side tasks is based on a balance between the different considerations. In the context of the legal regulation, three different options were considered: a prohibition mechanism whereby judges are cut off from carrying out side-to-side or specific side-to-side tasks; an authorisation system in which judges cannot undertake side-to-side tasks, where appropriate, only specific side-to-side tasks, unless the competent authority has given its consent; and a registration system in which the information on the side-to-side tasks of each judge is systematically recorded. Instead of a prohibition system whereby judges are consistently prevented from carrying out side tasks, it was decided to establish a registration system in combination with an authorisation system for certain types of side actions. An approval system is flexible and allows for a concrete assessment of the individual side-to-side objective. The legal regulation of the side tasks of judges therefore consists of a system of registration and authorisation, detailed rules laid down in the Law of the Court of Justice and in the provisions of the Act on Side-activities of Judges. Those arrangements were put in place with effect from 1 March 2003. The recording of the side tasks of judges shall be carried out in a publicly available register managed by the Court of Justice. The purpose of the register is to ensure full transparency and that no one has to doubt the independence of the judge. The register also provides the parties and their procedural representatives with a real opportunity to assess whether they consider that the judge is prepared to deal with the specific case and, where appropriate, raise objections to it. So you get some insight into the side tasks of the judges. The rules on registration of side-acts apply to judges in all instances, including the Judges. Both permanent and temporary judges are subject to the provisions if they have been appointed or appointed for a longer period of time than one month. In some cases, the lateral action must also be approved in order for the judge to take up the task. This applies, inter alia, to: in the case of arbitration. It is the administration of the Court that is examining the application for authorisation but with the possibility of delegating the authority to the chairperson of the court. In cases where a decision is taken by the Administrative Board of the Court of Justice, no judicial remedy is available, while the Administrative Board of the Court of Justice is the Board of Appeal where that power has been delegated. The Administrative Board of the Court of Justice has drawn up guidelines for the approval of page tasks. Side-effects shall not be accepted if the confidence in the court and the independence of the judge may be adversely affected. The same applies to side tasks that may give the impression of unlucky ties because they cast doubt on the impartiality of the judge. In deciding whether to approve a side-to-side task, attention shall also be paid to whether the side-to-side task may involve an additional workload that may affect the efforts of the principal function of the judge and influence the pace of the case resolution – something the interpellant was engaged in. When approving arbitration tasks, particular attention shall be paid to whether the arbitration operation will be so demanding that it would be burdensome for the court and whether the judge would be more than occasionally incapacitated. Longer-term arbitration tasks, more than two to three days, are assumed to be added to leisure, including leave and leave. Without approval, the Judges may not undertake tasks which are not directly related to the post and which impede the performance of the duties relating to the post of Judge. The current rules on access for judges to side-effects are based on a balance between the different considerations that apply and that have also been pointed out in recent debates. While the rules had a discretionary character to ensure that the legislation was sufficiently flexible for all the different cases that might arise, developments show that there may be a need to re-examine this legislation. However, I will continue to follow developments with attention, and I would therefore ask the Administrative Board to consider whether changes to the legislation should be made in order to better regulate side activities, in particular taking into account the discretionary element contained in the rules, which I believe necessitates the type of debate that has taken place here in Stortinget today – I have a great understanding of that – and which could help to ensure that the discretionary standards used are used with caution and rigour, so that the very considerations behind the rules can be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1720	I would like to thank the Minister of Justice for a thorough and good review of the issue of the side tasks of judges. I am particularly pleased that the Minister shares my concern for development and that he will therefore take the initiative of the Court of Justice to assess whether changes should be made to the legislation in order to better regulate side tasks than today. However, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice some follow-up questions. Today it is possible for a judge to take arbitration cases of a shorter duration, less than two to three days, during his or her working hours. When we look at how law enforcement – and in particular Borgarting – labors with leftovers, I would like to ask the Minister if he thinks this is a proper practice. Furthermore, today's Business has documented that, among other things, Case-law of the Court of Justice of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, and Case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, Case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, Case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, Case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Communities, Case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Does the Minister think it is right that judges should be able to earn more on side jobs than on their own job? One of the main reasons why I went up this interpellation is that side tasks can primarily affect the society's perception of the judge's independence, impartiality and inadequacy. In this regard – although it is a little outside the theme of this interpellation – I would like to ask the Minister of Justice for his opinion that the courts should also provide information about the previous work experience of the judge. Today, the website of the Court of Justice – DAs – provides information only on the last place of work before a person has been appointed as a judge. I think it should be considered whether not all previous work experience should be made publicly available. Today, the situation is that, for example: Media trying to obtain information about judges' previous employment must contact the individual judge and it is up to each judge to respond to such a request. The transparency of judges is greater today than that of other professional groups, and this is important in order to ensure the confidence of the judiciary. However, the focus and public debate that have been on the side tasks of some judges, private employment and also past work experience show that there is a need to follow developments. The Norwegian court does not tolerate questions being asked in the case of individual convictions in terms of the stability and independence of the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1733	In the further discussion that the interpellant is currently going on, and in which I assume that the Justice Committee and the Stortinget are involved, all the time that you actually have jurisdiction in court law, which regulates this in substance, and in the dialogue I am going to have with you, among other things. The court administration, I'll pass on these signals. That's why. I understand that questions are raised about the shorter arbitration tasks, as set out in this legislation, which states that the longer arbitration tasks are to be carried out, but then it must be assumed that it is added to the free time, including leave and leave. I would like to ask the Court of Justice to make an assessment of whether it is right to carry out these arbitration tasks – at least if there are many – in what most of us would call normal working hours, sail if you are facing Norwegian judges in such a way that you might find it difficult to say that you are facing some defined working time. But this is something we should be able to go into and look at. It is difficult for me to comment on individual matters in the debate on judges and arbitration. I think it's a very necessary debate. Judges have to bear to put this light on them. It's hard to say that there's going to be a limit on how much judges can earn on side jobs. But it has to be that when considering an authorisation to take a side job, you have to consider how much volume of side work you actually have, because this may ultimately affect the main position. If there is much, there should be a lower threshold to refuse a page job. That's how I see it. But there is at the same time reason to raise the question to the court administration. I also believe that the element that is being drawn out by the interpellant now, concerning the registration of previous work experience, is something we should take with us in connection with this register, so that we also get an assessment of that issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1744	I must be allowed to thank the interpellant for bringing up a very important and fundamental matter with the Council of State. The fact that we keep a searchlight on those who have such important duties as judges is clearly crucial to ensuring total legal certainty. I am also pleased that perhaps the most important issues have been addressed, which relate to economics – in other words, the motivation for arbitration – and focusing on side-to-side and procedural time. It can't be the way that the private tasks affect what you're actually going to do. In this case, it is important to follow this with the eyes of the argus, and to ensure the development you want. At the same time, it is well that we are all happy that we have good and good lawyers in this country who can assist with good and reasonable arbitration solutions where it is natural and where it does not conflict with the general principles. It will serve those who ask for help, and it will serve the rest of the judiciary. But there are some assumptions that have to be in place. The judges are paid with taxpayers' money, and they must be aware of what priority is. 1st@item: inlistbox It may not be possible to be motivated by other factors, such as extra income and other economies, in order to lay the foundation for one's own well-being. As a judge, one of the most important social tasks is to manage legal judgement, and then it has a very important responsibility to think about the cleanliness of one’s own person. Cleanness and integrity are, of course, the next thing to consider. Nor can we get into the situation that judges who have undertaken arbitration tasks actually conflict with themselves in a later case in their judgement. Because then we will have problems, and that will also affect the entire judiciary and thereby our rule of law. In addition, there is another element that the interpellant did not take up, but which I believe the Council of State must also consider: Could it be that one actually develops some kind of case law when assisting in arbitration, which one takes to court afterwards? Would you then be able to develop some sort of private judgmental understanding of how to deal with a matter without having to publish it? It's also a point that I hope the Council of State will take it along and look at, so we don't privatize part of the court development, when we claim that this is as much as possible public. So if we can't end up with things happening as part of an arbitration process that creates a practice that's not familiar with anyone else. I expect that I have both the Council of State and others that we can't have it that way, and that's not the way we're supposed to have it. My conclusion is quite clear: the council must be very clear here on what he accepts, and what he does not accept, and at the same time keep focus on the importance of maintaining the arbitration system, because it is a good tool, but that we do it in the right order. I also expect the Council of State to have a critical look at today's practice, where the Council of State sees that it can conflict with the principles of legal security that we are proud of and that are so important to this nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1757	I would first like to thank the interpellant for the important debate she is going to have. The access of judges to page jobs represents a dilemma in many contexts. It is obvious that there is a dilemma about trust in the Norwegian judiciary when a person gets a number of issues that call into question the integrity of judges. There is an even more important debate when a number of judges have a large proportion of their income from side-to-side activities. This causes one to ask questions about stability and independence. This is a situation that we cannot live with today. I am glad that the Council of State signals that he wants to follow this up. The primary task of judges must also be seen in the context of the need for judges who have good knowledge of the development of our society and knowledge of what is happening in different sectors. So banning side tasks is not a solution to this dilemma. What's important is to stress that we need judges who trust the population. It is essential that we have judges who are independent, who are seen as independent, impartial and as neutral as possible. Our state of law depends on this, and our jurisdiction depends on the confidence of the population in order to perform its functions in the best possible way. Another side of the case is the recruitment of good judges. It is important that we focus on good training of judges with broad competence from different fields. It is important to develop skills and experience through courses, but also in some cases through side-to-side activities — here are examples also provided by the Council of State — through public investigations, etc. There are a number of issues that have come up now, where one can ask the question whether this is happening in the best possible way. We can see that judges have put up with something that could be called pro forma courts, and are in favour of judging persons and giving legitimacy to decisions taken in these forums, through the position of judge, where judges absolutely should not have stood up, and where decisions are taken on the side of our courts, which are perceived by many as a legitimate judgment, because of the position of judge. I think this is serious. We have established a system of registers in combination with a system of approval for specific side-actions. Side-effects shall not be accepted if the confidence in the courts and the independence of the judges may be harmful, it states. You also say that it should be full openness. Such a system of registers shall not call into question the inconsistency of a case, so that all cases must be registered. It seems to me that this is not being followed up to a large enough extent. I ask the Council of State to enter into a dialogue with the judiciary in order to make this work in the best possible way. This is important for Norway as a nation, but also for the judiciary. It is important that the use of side tasks for judges is stepped up.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1778	The debate shows that there is a need to look at the system around the registration of side tasks of judges, and that there are also many fundamental aspects to this practice. I am very pleased with the short, but still very clear debate that we have had here, that goes on these things. It does not surprise me that the Progress Party so much opens up for side tasks. But at the same time, I am very pleased that the party – and the representative Ellingen – is so clear that it is important to follow developments closely. It is important that the Council of State has a focus on this. And it's important, if there's a need for it, that it's tightened up in relation to current practice. I also think that the fundamental issue raised by the representative, whether a kind of private case law relating to arbitrators is developing, is also interesting. I have said in the past that I am very pleased with the Minister's promises that he will follow developments closely with regard to the side tasks of judges, and look at the existing legislation. For the signals that are on a narrowing with regard to the scope of the lateral task, both the effectiveness of the courts, the economic aspect of it, and not least the principal aspects of it, apply. If we are to achieve a balance in the criminal case chain, as we have said in the Soria Moria Declaration, it is a very important objective for us, not least in the case of the courts, we must bring down the time of trial to a completely different level than it is today. We have to get the efficiency up. It is an important principle of legal certainty. When working so hard and when doing such good work on the part of many courts and on the part of the Court administration, it is important to also focus on the individual judge's commitment in this respect. This is not least important in order to maintain the high level of confidence in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1791	Government has not asked for the word. The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1811	I want to deal with a matter that is close to my heart, namely the situation of the people of Oslo and thereby also the situation of the policemen who are employed – and working – in Oslo. I would argue that it is a fact that today the people of Oslo feel more insecurity than necessary. This is due – at my discretion – to an excessive degree to the absence of visible police. If you look at the statistics, it's also a fact that the Oslo Police are coming out badly when it comes to clarifying profit crime. They're good at a lot of other things, but they're struggling in terms of winning crimes. It is estimated that they have a percentage of clarification of approx. 16th@item: inlistbox That means that eight out of ten are getting away. So this is a general gain. So, of course, you can discuss – go to the depth of this – and say, "Do you have to investigate bicycle theft?" Do you need to investigate cell phone thefts and stuff like that? I think every time you take a break from investigating crime, you give a signal to the people that what they're pointing out, and that they should have done something about, is not that important. I think you should be extremely careful with that. Some of this is due to the fact that the economic situation in Oslo is tough and difficult, quite simply. The Oslo police are betting on doing something about it, by keeping the positions on the watch. And when jobs are kept vacant, there is a hole in an organisation and in what the organisation is expected to do. Then it is tempting to ask – as I do in my interpellation: is what you do in the Oslo Police now, a violation of the police law, where it is said that it is the duty of the state to have a police force? Does the Minister of Justice, in part, feel like a criminal because of this situation? This I expect the Council of State will be able to answer later, when he gets the floor. You sometimes get signals about what's going on out there. I have received information that indicates that the Oslo police per. Today, the number of posts that Stortinget, when it adopted the budget last year, is not expected to be filled. Once again, it is due to budgetary and budgetary problems. If you have to save more than expected, it will affect the audience. Oslo police have been entrusted with some key national tasks, such as: explosive detection service, bodyguard service, emergency squad, police helicopter standby, etc. Ambassador service is also one of the tasks. After the Oslo police have spent money on this, they can use what's left to fight crime. First priority is given to central national tasks. The money left will meet the needs of the people of Oslo. Another consequence of the situation is that more police posts are being laid down. You're about to drop the police post on Oslo S. You can discuss whether it's a good idea to pool police resources more than you've done in the past – it's possible you'll get a better impact through it. I do not think one should fail to see the seriousness of how this is perceived by the audience. When the public sees a police sign removed, they perceive that the police are moving further away. That's not necessary. We shouldn't, and shouldn't, do it this way. We are one of the richest countries in the world and can afford to have the best police in the world – if there is a political will to do so. I think that sometimes is a lack of will that is the problem. The people of Oslo are entitled to at least as good police services as the rest of the country. I think that the Oslo police on a far too large a scale are dealing with issues, there are issues where there is a need for interpreting costs, or in connection with DNA analyses. There has been a signal that this is happening — and that it is happening on a large scale — in view of the total cost. At least it is in contrast to what the Council of State has said earlier, namely that matters with a known perpetrator are not to be settled. The Committee has also pointed this out, among other things. It may not be the case that forensic tests are intended to determine whether justice is to be carried out or not. If we don't take a settlement with this soon, I think we'll get a rebellion against us from the population, precisely because those who are good taxpayers expect to get something back. I record that one of the approaches of the Council of State to fix this was to participate in a web visit. There he asked the people to make representations about what was to be given priority. It was an interesting and somewhat mysterious twist, possibly very modern – newcomers. But that is a fact – and I assume that the Council of State also knows – that politics is about political priorities. Then I find it strange and mysterious – and defensive – to ask the audience what to give priority to. This is a political responsibility. The policy must be stepped up through treatment in the Grand Duchy and through the support of the Council of State. It shall not take place through a network meeting. The Labour Party has just held its national meeting and has decided – well supported by the other government parties – to ban the purchase of sex. It means a new task – new challenges. But does that mean new funds? Or does the Council of State expect this to be resolved within the limits of what you have? If I know the Council of State correctly, he will say in his reply that he will not enter the budget debate now, but that he will come back to it. It's a common phrase, but probably what will be the Council's answer. Had this been a single case, I would have done nothing more with it. But those of us who have been here for a while know that the Police Joint Association has been quite good at ‘ arresting’ – if I can use that term – the Stortinget, by pointing out that the Storting is constantly adopting new laws and regulations, but at the same time does not fully finance what they mean. That means we put the police in a check-in-check situation, where we expect them to solve the problems, but we don't give them the tool and the opportunity to do it. When the government thread goes out and says that this government has invested a lot – over 100 million. kr has been transferred to the police – it is possible that this government thinks there is a lot. The progress party's last budgetary settlement with the previous government, the Bondevik government, was on at the base of 500 million. kr. I think that was a bet. The investment you have now seems marginal to me in relation to this. So we have a situation where today, at my discretion, the police choose between plague or cholera. It shouldn't have been like this. Police should have been allowed to work on what they want to work with, namely crime prevention and crime prevention. Night to Saturday before Easter I was out with the Central Police Station. It was very interesting and very instructive. What was perhaps most fascinating was that there were policemen at work who were actually free, who chose to use their spare time to go to work, among others. because they are respectable and proud of their job, and at the same time because they want to contribute to the people of Oslo, so that they can feel an increased level of security. I hope it's not going to be that in the future, the Council of State is betting on a spirit of virtue, that it's the one who's going to run the Oslo Police, because then I'm afraid we're going to have a bigger challenge than what's good. Then I had hoped that the Council of State could have taken a much tougher initiative in terms of necessary investment in the police. I am aware that the Council of State has an ambition in that direction. I am also aware that the Joint Police Association has known that we have a lag of several hundred million dollars, which is unsolved. Had we been able to make some necessary investments, we might have got an even better and more effective police force. They are currently struggling with old vehicles and poor technical solutions. We could discuss various EDB solutions for the police. They do not even have direct contact from the vehicles to the vehicle register or to the criminal record, as many other countries have. And there are good solutions here, but we have per. today can't afford it. I hope that – and would appreciate it – the Council of States could think of saying something about its ambitions on behalf of the Government when it comes to addressing the need for necessary investment, because I think it can actually help the police in a good way, which will give us a good effect back. What is at least a fact is that what the Progress Party wants is a police force that pulls out when someone needs help and calls and asks for help, a police force that can be involved in preventive work and prevent crime. Of course, the best and cheapest way to do this is to bet on prevention, but also the visible police are involved in prevention. Most people who have been out driving cars, I think I've experienced that if there comes a uniformed police car near you, people become very law-abiding. In any case, this is the experience acquired by the undersigned. What I also think is important is that we need to reach out together to ensure that the Norwegian police can maintain and have the confidence they have per. today. If we don't hit ourselves indirectly, and we hit a tie unfairly. I look forward to seeing the views of the Council of State on what must now be done to ensure that the Oslo police receive the necessary assistance, and that security is put on the map again – also in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1845	After hearing the inter-pellant interpellers, I have to say that it is good that the representative looks forward to hearing what the Council of State's view is. And the Council of State also looks forward to presenting its view, because that must be absolutely necessary. I want to start by saying that I think it's a little sad that you're trying to create such a negative picture of Oslo police district as the interpellant actually does. It is sad, of course, for the former governments we have had, who have done a good job in relation to the Oslo police district. It's sad for the current government. And not least, it is sad for the Progress Party naval, which in several years had the opportunity to build up a level in the Oslo police district that might then have to be seen as necessary, a level that we are actually at today, and which the Progress Party just a few years ago apparently seemed sufficient. But it's also sad because this debate and this way of angled the debate itself are helping to create insecurity. It weakens the sense of security for the citizens of Oslo and the confidence of the police, and it, in my opinion, gives an incorrect picture of the job actually carried out by the nearly 2,500 staff in Oslo police district. The interpellant raised the issue of investment, as if there is no investment in Norwegian police or, for that matter, in the Norwegian justice sector today. I was about to say, that's how wrong it can be. So we're going to have record investments in the entire justice sector in this year and the next few years. I would say that we have to go very far back in time before we find similar investments in equipment for the police and for the entire justice sector as we will this year and in the years to come. I mention two things in relation to this that also benefit the Oslo Police. We need to establish a completely new emergency contact for the police, where Oslo is in the first phase. This is an investment project that is estimated to cost between NOK 3 and 4 billion. So it's the Stoltenberg II government that's taking the first step, not in terms of planning and talking about this, but we're taking the first step in taking the bill, which is happening this year. And I'm probably going to be the Minister of Justice who gets to be in the first base station opening. Having a safe-to-be link that has many functions that are useful in fighting crime has been pointed out by the Joint Police Union and by officials from the Oslo Police District as one of the most important investments that can be made, not only in relation to the security of the officials, but also in relation to the conduct of investigations. In addition to the investment now being made in criminal justice, as the Joint Police Association has said is absolutely necessary, and as the Oslo Police have said is absolutely necessary, it is obviously also important to bring down the reconciliation queue now to the start of the billion-dollar campaign at Halden Prison. So to Oslo, specifically. The district achieves good results in a number of areas, and we have to start telling about that. In this connection, for example, I would like to say: refer to the reproduction project. So this is not a project that has been taken within the existing budgetary framework alone, but additional funds have been allocated to it. Oslo has a very good repeater project, for which I will not take the starter, but as I believe we shall also award the previous government credit, and we are now in the start-up phase of a good effort in relation to the fight against trafficking in human beings. I hope that we can reverse the focus, so that the positive can also be mentioned. Of course, I am concerned that the police in Oslo, as well as the police in the rest of the country, have appropriations that enable them to provide the people with the police service they are entitled to. That is why this government chose to increase police budgets, as opposed to the former government. That's also why we thought it was important not only to talk about money, but also to talk about training more policemen – something we're going to get back to. I have stressed on several occasions that police services do not depend solely on appropriations. I've used the term police force on a number of occasions. By doing so, I believe that the police force in a city, in a dense place and in a police district is the sum of a number of factors: appropriations, personnel, competence, equipment, organisation, management, methods, regulation, cooperation with others, criminal services, settlement, custody, etc. In addition, this provides the basis for what the police can achieve. I must also remember that the Government has been concerned that extraordinary expenses are covered by additional appropriations this year, cf. that we have recently submitted St. pp. No 58 on changes in some chapters of the 2007 State budget, such as: is linked to NATO's informal Foreign Minister's meeting in Oslo this week, where we have proposed that the Oslo Police District should cover all expenditure associated with this meeting, up to 42 million. kr. Whether the Government will present changes to the revised national budget or to the budget that will come is still not settled. There is no phrase, but a truth that I expect at least people who have been close to the government apparatus have a great understanding of. From 2000 to 2007, the budget for the Oslo Police District increased from 973 million. NOK 1.4 billion. That's a nominal increase of 433 million. kr, 45 pst. During this period, tasks related to the non-resident administration have been transferred to the police’s foreign unit, which amounted to 27 million. kr, the bodyguard service has been transferred to the Police Security Service – 31,5 million. kr. In other words, the increase in the Oslo police district budget is actually higher than that seen in these figures. You have not brought the money, but you have removed the problems. Annual work has increased from 2,239 in 2000 to 2,422 in 2006 — an increase of 183. Due to the transfers of tasks mentioned above, the increase in annual work is in reality about approx. One hundred higher. So in the case of Oslo, I think the time has come to ask questions about the extent to which we can get the most effect of such an increase in the budget, of such an increase in the number of employees. We also have to dry down demands in order to get the most rational police service possible. Normal leave in the Oslo police district is about 100 posts. In all organisations, there is some leave in connection with employee retirement or retirement. In addition, the police district has decided that job vacancies should remain unoccupied for a few months in order to strengthen other tasks. It has been suggested approx. 180 years total, not 10 p.m., as the representative Ellingsen suggests. There is no reduction in the budget for 2007. The 2007 budget includes compensation for wage and price increases and an increase of 2.2 million. kr when increasing the issue of police certificates and increasing the number of cases in the foreign area. A recent strengthening of the reoccurrence project has been carried out, and a strengthening was also carried out in 2006, from the previous government, to the general police work. I have also noticed that Oslo has been the subject of many interviews that I have received during February and March, among others. by the representatives Hans Olav Syversen, Akhtar Chaudhry, and by the representative André Oktay Dahl on the use of cat in the Somali environment in Oslo. In addition, I have recently answered a question from the representative André Oktay Dahl about resource use in the Oslo Police Department. I had a useful and constructive meeting with the police chief in Oslo in March on budgetary matters, and the chief of police assured me that there is no poor preparedness in Oslo. It's also a misunderstanding that there's a 32 million reduction. kr in the budgets. Oslo police districts have made redeployments in the internal cost allocation compared with 2006. So there has been no such reduction in the total budget as suggested. In the media, part of the criticism that has been raised is that police stations have been reduced in appropriations. The chief of police has informed us that two out of five police stations have been reduced in 2007 and that this reduction amounts to a total of NOK 150 000. Total Budget Oslo Police District: DKK 1.4 billion I think we're going to be careful about blowing the cord, creating a crisis, based on such a size. The other police stations have strengthened their budgets and the net increase in operational resources for police stations is 2.4 million. kr compared to 2006. In addition, the police station, as well as the other units of the police district, must keep some posts open for a period of time. I'm working on providing good framework conditions and fulfilling the Soria Moria statement. A record number of students are recorded at the 2007 Police College. 432 students are the highest recording since 1998. The main effort in the justice sector has so far been to reduce the pay queue. It's also very important to the police. In this context, I will also mention a great effort we have made, and as we shall do, for a new emergency network. I believe that the people of Oslo are given a good police service, and support the vision of the Oslo Police District to make Oslo the world's safest capital. I mean, they're on the right track.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1885	Of course, I thank the Council of State for the answer, even though there are enough nuances in the perception of the reality between the two of us. But that's kind of okay enough. In any case, I record that the Council of State has a completely different reality from that of many others, but it may be necessary to have the reality that the Council of State itself advocates, when you are responsible for the reality outside here. What surprises me in the Council of State's response is, of course, that if the Council of State's conclusion is correct, many others are wrong out here. I can see that the Joint League of Police in Oslo is very critical of the situation here, and of the economic situation in Oslo. It is possible that the Council of State is right that I said the wrong number of job vacancies in Oslo. State councils think I now said 180 weeks ago. If it's the case that the 180 have no significance for the activity in Oslo, why doesn't the Council of State remove them? If they are to be there, but stand awake – what is the purpose of that? If it is that there are no tasks for them, I think you have to re-prioritize them. Or it may be that they are needed, but lack political will to grant the necessary funds to fill the posts. Of course, we can argue here and keep a rhetorical hallelujah about what's going on outside this house, but we can't take away that feeling of insecurity that's out there among parts of the population. If there's anything that can fix it, it's, for example, visible police, visible police on weekends in places where people feel vulnerable and insecure when they are going home on a Friday or Saturday night. Then I don't think 180 vacant jobs are something to brag about. On the contrary, I think it is stupid and unnecessary, and I am absolutely sure that something could have been done about this. I would like to challenge the Council of State on the following: If this is what the Council of State says, that everything is so good, does that mean that the Council of State can assure the Government that no provisions are made in Oslo of – shall we call it – crime that has a certain severity, on the grounds that one has no finances for another? If he can do that, I'll appreciate it very much, because that means that the Council of State can do well that it doesn't. I look forward to a clarification of that. In that case, I think the Council of State has a job to do when it comes to meeting the chief of police more often than he's done now. I believe that I have also read a lot of media essays last autumn about meetings between the State Council and the police chief in Oslo, where they just discussed what the Council of State was talking about, namely the effect of the funds. It is clear, at my discretion, that the Council of State has one opinion, and that the police chief, possibly based on a police professional assessment, has a completely different opinion, but I assume that the Council of State agrees that it is the police professional who will rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1898	I fully agree that it is the police profession that should govern. Police districts are given a broad framework for managing the budgets they receive. I'm not going, as State Council in the Ministry of Justice, to go into detail and rule Oslo police districts, nor any other police districts. I believe that when it comes to caring for the police, it is precisely the police chief and those in charge of the district who are the best people to see where the resources should be deployed, and the extent to which the balance between investment and personnel costs should be maintained. What is my responsibility, and the responsibility of Regeringa, is, of course, to ensure that there are sufficient police budgets. I believe that I have explained what the Government has done, and I do. There is a need for greater police resources, not only in Oslo, but also in other districts. That's why the government chose, as one of the first official acts we did, to increase the police budgets, unlike what, for example. The right contributed. In the budget debate, they chose to cut down in the Oslo police force for 2006. Here, there have been political balances and political choices. Too many will not be enough, but we have a direction to it. The fact that you have a recording at the Police College that is as high as it is now – the highest since 1998 – is a signal that we want to man the police. The fact that we have delivered a proposition to the Storting regarding the expansion of the DNA registry is also a signal that we want to get the percentage of information for matters, which will require police expertise and resources. This is a bet. What we do in relation to investment is also a clear signal that we believe it is important to take police security seriously. It is also important to rust up the equipment side in the case of vests – i.e. protective equipment – weapons and cars. In addition to such a commitment, it must also be a responsibility for the Government, and for those in the police profession, to ensure that these resources are managed in the best possible way, when there is such a large amount of money we are talking about, and when there are so many posts – such a large organisation. There is also something I think we should focus on in relation to the police of the future. Finally, I would like to say that there is a difficult situation out in Police Norway. That's it, and that's good reason to bet more. If the Oslo police are the worst in relation to the police in general in Norway, I am not so sure. I think that depends on how the debate is going, and how close you are to the Akersgata and the big newspapers. I think that sometimes we can also focus on how the situation is elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1913	Once again, we experience that the Progress Party speculates in creating fear and uncertainty among the inhabitants of Oslo in relation to the crime scene in Oslo. Like the Minister of Justice, I think it is sad. It's sad for the Oslo police, because the picture of the Progress Party's job done by the Oslo police is not correct, and because the Progress Party can thus weaken the confidence of the police, but it's also sad because the Oslo residents have little reason to live with the insecurity I fear the Progress Party creates. Jan Arild Ellingsen is trying to create a picture of an Oslo police officer who doesn't have the resources to do his job. But Oslo is in a special position in relation to the other police districts of the country in terms of staffing, with its nearly 2,500 employees, and also on the resource side. And so it should be. Oslo police districts face far greater challenges than the other police districts of the country in terms of organised crime. Probably has between 60 and 80 pst. by organised crime any connection with Oslo. In terms of drug use, the trend report on the development of juvenile and juvenile delinquency in Oslo in 2006 shows that there is more cannabis use among young people in Oslo than among young people in the rest of the country. In terms of recrimination, prostitution, and, of course, the fact that the Oslo Police have security tasks that the other police districts of the country do not have, as well as a number of other issues, are more challenging than in the other police districts of the country. That's why the Red-Green majority has also strengthened the Oslo Police after we got into government. We have allocated money over the ordinary budgets. We added 6 million. last year — continuing this year — as an exceptional appropriation due to the recriminal crime that has developed in the city, and now the Government has decided that the Oslo Police Department will have to cover all expenditure related to the NATO Summit. This is 42 million. krones. The representative Ellingsen says in his interview that there are problems with manning at stations, because nearly 100 jobs are given to different projects. Then I have to ask the representative if he does not understand that these are projects that benefit the entire police district, including at the individual stations. Through the unique recrime project, Oslo, Follo and Asker and Bærum police districts have joined forces to detect, control and combat recrime in Oslo. It is labour-intensive, but it has effectively combatted recriminalism. Another project is the STOP project of the police, where an outreach operation in the prostitution environment will help to reveal trafficking, backers and hallucinations. Both repeat crime and trafficking are very seriously organised crime, and effective and targeted action to combat these forms of crime increases city security and, of course, benefits the work at each station. The most effective fight against crime is not achieved by the fact that the police alone take responsibility, but it is achieved through a common social responsibility. This perspective is once again lacking in the somewhat narrow view of crime prevention by the Progress Party. The Party of Advancement and the Right is ruling together in Oslo, and I am not impressed by the preventative work of these parties in Oslo. The Oslo police have reported that hundreds of child protection concerns are not followed up, because child protection does not have enough money. This comes from the city council granting too little to the city districts. There is an increase in the number of residents in the city, while at the same time the municipality reduces the number of municipal dwellings. This contributes to instability and insecurity. Although the municipality has increased its efforts on the drug side, this is not enough. We saw that, among other things. after the Plata action, which did not have enough effect, because the municipality did not follow up with measures. You can't chase the troubles out of those drug addicts. Then treatment helps better. The narrow budgetary framework of the City Council for urban areas has led to their narrowing of the offer to young people. Young people under the age of 24 account for more than a quarter of the reported conditions in the Oslo police district. It is obvious that the municipality must take a much stronger responsibility for prevention than today. After the red-green government took over, the Municipality of Oslo has received a budget increase of nearly NOK 2 billion. It should then be possible to achieve a much better preventive and security-creating policy than the City Council has now achieved. But then I think there must be new forces – parties that are concerned with the whole of the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1939	First to the Minister of Justice: it must then be possible to take some self-criticism once in a while and not see it as a personal defeat when you point out the direct shortcomings that exist! Try to take some self-criticism! It can't be that hard. Studies show, in contrast to the previous representative, that the population of Oslo is largely satisfied with the services provided by the Municipality of Oslo to its inhabitants. But they are consistently dissatisfied in the areas for which the State is responsible. The population of Oslo protests when they feel that the streets are unsafe. They protest when prostitutes, beggars and drug addicts characterize the cityscape in Oslo's most central streets. The people of Oslo protest when they experience recriminalism in their neighborhoods in the Groruddalen, and they become legitimately direct when they feel that the representatives of the government parties are standing up and saying that even they are afraid of development. When representatives of the parties with direct responsibility for development and for any action that may be taken stand in line with the shocks, the frustration and prudence of the inhabitants of Oslo are even greater. I would therefore like to call on the House of Commons to stop making such plays and instead take the responsibility that the people have given them. The disclaimer reached a real peak for some time, when the Minister of Justice moved out in the evening post and asked most people to make suggestions on which tasks the Oslo police should deprioritise. It simply doesn't matter! One can imagine how rich it would have been if the Minister of Health had given a similar message and asked the public to suggest which diseases and injuries should be prioritised at the country's hospital. I would like to make five specific challenges to Minister of Justice Storberget with this article. It's also about creating a rational police force. Will the Government establish local police posts in those neighbourhoods that do not have police stations? Oslo's population expects and demands that their neighborhoods be safe, and then it can't be that the pizza delivery companies come faster than the police. Local police posts will be deterrent to potential offenders, and they will act as a source of comfort to the population. Will the government deploy mobile police units on wheels, as the London police have established? The London police project on mobile police units is successful. This allows the police to move units relatively quickly to areas which, for various reasons, are particularly vulnerable during certain periods. Will the Government consider introducing a result-based police force, where the allocation is relative to the clearance rate? Increased resources could always be deterrent to potential lawbreakers, and it would be reassuring for the population, simply because more policemen in the streets would make it more pleasant for people to travel in the streets. However, in the case of increased resources to clarify crime, the correlation between appropriations and results is not as obvious. A system that rewards the police for the concrete findings obtained will be more easily able to measure whether resources are being used correctly, while encouraging the police to make better use of their investigative capabilities. Will the government go through the entire pay system to the police, so that more experienced police officers get into active service in the street? Today, unfortunately, it is such among policemen that patrolling is seen to be unattractive. This is because these police officers are often the worst remunerated. Such a remuneration policy often makes it the most inexperienced and those with the shortest seniority who become patrolling police. Very often it is that as soon as a police officer is promoted, the person is placed indoors, in a police station. This is unfortunate and is not in keeping with what the police very many people want. In other countries, this is not the case. I myself have lived in Chicago for five years, and in my neighborhood, everyone became acquainted with the two local police officers – two experienced policemen who enjoyed great respect in the neighborhood, and who were also very well paid. Will Minister of Justice Storberget go through the many special units established recently? On the basis of events and following political initiatives, Oslo police have set up new units to deal with defined police tasks. This has led to unhealthy competition between various police units about the best investigative resources, while at the same time disseminating competences. The consequence of this is that coordination has become more difficult and effective resource use across units has become more demanding, as information is not made sufficiently available from unit to unit. With the many specialised units set up in a number of areas, the Oslo Police have also experienced a spread of skills, a greater level of coordination and pay increases – this is because new units attract highly skilled police officers. In conclusion, what's the reason why you can't have your own investment budgets in the police, as you have in the defense? Then the police can get predictability and invest over several years, as they do in Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1965	I don't think Oslo's population is so busy hearing about the snow that fell last year or, at any rate, in the past – because the interpellant has not exaggerated the situation in Oslo now. The number of operational units has fallen considerably in two years. At Manglerud Police Station, we're told it's 400 pst. Several provisions, and 20 years back, there were twice as many patrollings as there are today. The Oslo police experience at the same time getting more and more demanding, interesting, tasks, without getting this demonstrated. What everyone sees as the example of how society said that "it was enough," and turned back, was the necessary effort after the NOKAS ran, then the situation was that very many in the Oslo police were doing a great job, but more people felt that it was not compensated in retrospect. Although we are one Police Norway, it is actually that Oslo also played a major role in that matter. The government parties have now adopted the criminalisation of sex purchases, with a justification that could actually have been used to support our proposal to strengthen the basis for drawing up local police regulations. I hope that the government, until we get this ban in place, will not let Oslo sail its own sea, where now the sausage menu of 7-Eleven is being tried out by a completely different offer between the store shelves. I hope the government looks at this with open eyes when the department is going to review the POD statement on the Oslo Municipal Police Code. It needs to be seen in the context of the resource situation in which the Oslo Police are located. Oslo should be a city where the streets are for everyone. I think it's going to be special when the police almost have to spin and save to afford a summer action. This means that the normal situation relative to the problem resolution appears to be the extraordinary one. Once again, I urge the government parties to accept the proposal we have before us in the Committee on Justice, to organise a summer exercise where the use of the police reserve can complement the police and release police force, as well as to strengthen the Oslo police force considerably in revision. It would also have been useful if the Council of State provided a separate evaluation of Oslo police districts in order to clarify the overall situation, both in terms of staffing, tasks and not least in terms of the management of the police district, and also the division between local and national tasks, which Ellingen had to attend. So when the Council of State says that it is important to make the best use of the money and manage it as well as possible, it is a proposal that the Council of State should support. Oslo Municipality, for its part, has provided its part in many ways in the form of social policy measures that can help get people out of the street and into a more dignified life. Three new locations, nine field nurseries, free distribution of syringes, treatment centres, employment measures and more, not less, leisure clubs, are important contributions. Actually, I think the most criminal I hear here is the committee leader's cheating on the facts. It's almost touching to hear her talk about the fight against drugs, when we're sitting here at Stortinget with an adopted drug budget that's the worst in eight years, and the rate of places in medically assisted rehabilitation is so bad that it'll take 70 years to help those who need it. It also contributes to a more insecure city, both for the individual drug user, and for those who feel unsafe because drug users do not get the help they need. A topic that has not been addressed in relation to the police’s resource situation in Oslo is the possibility of better cooperation with other agencies for example. to get a good overview of parts of the outdoor sector, where it takes place both on the one hand and on the other. I have received a good deal of enquiries in the last few months about people who are being harassed, and sometimes also violence, by some employees at the city patio. It might say something about the seriousness. In order to deal with this, the police must be given the opportunity to be their partner in combating serious forms of harassment and violence, black labour and the black economy. With regard to the revelations that we have seen in recent times of both tax fraud and social security, there is a need, which I have asked written questions about to the Council of State, a closer and more effective formalized cooperation between NAV, the police and the tax administration in order to punish social security and tax fraud, not least in Oslo. Some people would call this some kind of everyday crime, but we can't accept that this kind of fraud for some people is going to be commonplace. It is not a good thing that one in matters which have almost been dealt with by the tax administration, after having had projects to detect tax fraud and social security fraud, concludes informal agreements that if there is no fraud of more than NOK 100 000, one looks through with it. It's some kind of class justice that we can't be familiar with. Finally, in terms of the number of posts, which are uncertain, POD is not quite sure how many job vacancies there are. It's probably in itself a sign that it's actually so high that POD doesn't have the overview of them either. Finally, in five out of six budgets, the Right has proposed more money than the Labour Party – and the Committee leader – so I recommend that you check the figures a little more closely at that point as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1986	The scheduled time for tomorrow’s meeting is soon to come, and the President proposes that the meeting continue until today’s map is completed. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e1989	As an Oslo citizen, I would like to say that I am pleased that we have here a police force that we can be proud of, that does a good job and provides a safer everyday life for people in Oslo, and that, in addition to it, helps to ensure that in the years that come – including for the generations that come – we can look forward to an ever safer city. I just want to start by commending the Oslo police for their very good cooperation with the municipality in individual districts, with the protection of children and others – I myself have been out there and seen it – and being able to do a good and offensive prevention work. But right there, we also see some of the challenges — you can't do this in all parts of the city, because different urban areas add up to different levels of prevention. Here there is not a comprehensive prevention policy that is good enough, in my opinion, from the City Council that sits in Oslo. I don't want to make this a debate where accusations are first and foremost made against each other, but just point out that if we can learn from the best of what the police do alone and with others, we have the opportunity to be able to develop an ever better police force. I'm going to talk more about Oslo, but at the same time I want to grasp what Christian Tybring-Gjedde – now I see he's gone from the hall – took up in his post, he talked about crime. I would like to say that if you just look blindly at the crime you have at all times and fail to see what is the cause of crime, what are the reasons why people feel insecure, what are the reasons why people actually end up in prison – if you can't do anything about the causes of crime – we can't create a safer future for the citizens of Oslo in the years to come either. When we know that about 60 pst. Of the people who are in prison, there are for things that have to do with rushes, and that 60 pst. Of those who are in prison, in some way have difficulty reading and writing, it says something about the one simple fact that we have to succeed in areas other than making sure that we have the most police officers in the streets, if we're going to be able to deal with crime over time. That's why we clearly say from the government's side that we're coming up with an escalation plan. We step up the work to make sure to follow up people who have drug problems. We have to do that in the years that are coming – even better than what we've done, even though we've taken small steps in the right direction. In addition, we need to do something to the young people we see today fall out of high school, where we have had catastrophic drop-out rates, especially for professionals, especially among the minority population and, in particular, among the minority population in Oslo. It says something about that is where we have to put the effort. And we do. With the big message we've given, "...and no one was left," we come up with concrete suggestions on what we can do to make people succeed in school. If we are able to contribute to the success of the school in the years to come, we are able to contribute to the success of more people, not to crime, but rather to the success and well-being of the labour force that creates growth and prosperity in Norway, we have done something that is important. However, it is clear that even with good prevention in all areas, there will be challenges to crime. We know that there are people who cheat on the treasure, we know that there is human trafficking, we know that there is fraud and tax evasion, we know that there are people who make crime a living. There we have to be tough, and there I think our government has shown that these are things we prioritise. We've made sure that we've got a commitment to prevention in terms of trafficking in human beings. We have put in place tough measures to combat trafficking in human beings, and there is now, as we know, all the government parties agree that we should make it more difficult to trade in human beings in Norway by imposing a ban on sex sales. We look very clearly at the experience from Sweden, and we are very clear that what is important to us is to put in place good measures to help those who are prostitutes today, while at the same time making it much more difficult to be backers. We are tough on recriminalism, and there we – as the Minister of Justice has done – can show concrete results. This is a long-term job where it has to be worked constantly. But on the one hand, we have to be tough, and on the other hand, give the people who are in the crowds good opportunities. Then we've been working on an aid lawyer's system, which has strengthened our efforts towards tax evasion. These are things we keep working on in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e2004	Most of us experience Oslo and other cities here in the country as safe to travel, but not all. The interpellant addresses a challenge to us as national politicians as well as to the local politicians in Oslo, because we have a common responsibility to ensure that Oslo and the other big cities in the country are perceived as safe, and to ensure that those who feel insecure by going out into public space are released. There can certainly be questions about whether the Oslo police have been adequately prioritised over the years, and whether the allocation of resources in the city has been adequately targeted against security measures. The capital is in a special situation. National tasks, such as embassy monitoring, naturally require enough police resources that you do not need in other parts of the country. Another issue is whether police tasks such as patrolling and surveillance of outsourced areas receive the attention needed to ensure a safe environment for their citizens. The Oslo police have cut off the resources of the city police and thus frame large communities such as the Groruddalen, Manglerud and Majorstua. Kutta also has a framework of police guards on weekends, and the downgrading of police work in the city areas is not in line with its priorities. But the Central Party is, after all, a part of a government that has strengthened the efforts of the police and the justice sector. For the Central Party, it is important to stress that a secure city is created by more than resources of the police alone. We need a much greater effort on prevention, for example. through strengthening the community economy, strengthening the voluntary sector and an integration policy that did not leave people without knowledge of our society and our relationships alone without getting to and without leaning on. In all of these areas, the red-green government has made important grips. After the change of government, Oslo Municipality has also experienced much more funding, and the Center Party believes and hopes that some of these funds will be used for prevention. It is worth recalling that when the Progress Party and the previous government ran down, there was a significant reduction in the youth club supply around the country, while the red-green government has ensured a opposite trend in this area – not only a strengthening of the repair measures, but also a substantial commitment to prevention. In the long term, the prevention of the Center Party's view is the most resilient and effective way of dealing with crime, and it's far cheaper than repairing when crime has already happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e2020	It is a question of how broad or narrow this debate should be. I basically have a sense of both approaches, but I was going to deal with the Oslo Police resource situation first and foremost, and then there's a lot we can discuss about prevention etc. in other contexts. But I think there's actually a paradox here: while we're feeling that the Oslo Police have a cut need of about 30 million. kr – although I understand that there is a little controversy about the figures – a unanimous increase was granted before today 42 million. kr to the Oslo Police Department at the NATO Foreign Minister’s meeting in a few days’ time. It's a meeting that lasts two days. And then we know what challenges the Oslo Police generally have in getting the ends to meet, all of 2007! At the same time, in the local news reports today, we were told that the police post at Oslo Central Station should be closed, and that of resource reasons. Some people say it's an allocation of strength so that you have to be more flexible. But at the end of the day, I think it's a matter of saving money. This is a police post that is of great importance to the security of an area of the city that needs a police presence. Police reform has had many good sides. At the same time, there is probably one point related to this reform where feedback has been quite clear, and that is that there has been no more police present, but less. That's what I think I'm going to encourage a little bit of reflection, because this has to do with the legitimacy of the people. They actually want to see a police present, which in itself has a preventive effect, even if those who measure efficiency by different methods, may ask questions about it. So I agree that of course we're going to look at what the Oslo Police are spending on. And since there was a visit to the Municipality of Oslo here, I don't think it's particularly ok that the Oslo Police have to use resources in the streets around here, to keep quiet and order among all the places that are densely hailed. But that's the way it's been with the tipping-off policy that the capital's been running. Now it is said that the majority of the city council has actually instructed the city council to come back to the city council with one thing about how to get fewer tips in the most violent streets of Oslo center, so maybe we can see a positive change there as well. I don't have a lot of sense for the number debate that's going on all the time. Any opposition party usually means that yes, we propose more – whether it is in the ordinary budget or in the revised budget. I think it's more important to ask: has the Oslo police really seen more money for their daily operations, or do they have less? Because if the amount of the crown that has been granted and is higher than before goes to price operations, payroll settlements or equipment, the amount has a little less interest. The question is, what are you really left with to spend on crime-fighting work? There is – until the opposite is proven – my clear view that you are sitting by less this year than last year. The challenge of my Christian People's Party to the Minister of Justice is to ensure that the Oslo Police have a real operational situation that enables us to fight crime and seek to build up security-creating measures to a greater extent than the current situation is.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e2033	Let me first start by saying something that everyone will agree on, and that is that the police in Oslo are doing a lot of good work. It is very positive that the government now sitting pressures the fight against trafficking in human beings and makes sure that police are involved. It is also very positive that a project has been launched to go after gangs, which one does not need to describe in detail from this pulpit, but which it is absolutely necessary that the police also do their bit off. And of course, it's wise police work to go after repeaters in terms of violent, winning, and moral crimes when you have the knowledge to do so. I think everyone here can agree on this. I'm going to choose a slightly different starting point than the previous ones, because there's always a danger of being exposed to comments about the near past or the distant past. My relationship with the Oslo police has basically spanned a period of 14 years. All this time, I've been out with the police at work, and I have the benefit of meeting policemen who are disloyal. Cops tell you what they see, they don't talk about the rest of the world, no matter what the regime. It lies in this that I have walked long before I was in the vicinity of being part of the regime itself. But what I have noticed is that in this country our tour schedules – and the police are a tour operator – and with work environment legislation, it is very clear how it goes in turn professions and working time regulations, even if budgets are growing. You can see that. You don't have to have special insight to understand that that's the way it is. When you see the effect of working time regulations, which I know are phased in bit by bit in the police and in the budgets – while I know what the Oslo Police are doing in a number of areas, which I have mentioned and for which I have commended – I'm absolutely convinced that what will always be the balancing post in the police, when you look at the number of employees, is what in police language is called the order service, or what people most would call the service out among people. It'll be like a knit. If you have too little money, you press this together. If you have a little bit more money, you subtract it. It's my claim that the overall situation with challenges for the Oslo police force makes this order service, this service of people out there, become a balancing post. In addition to this, there is something that has worried me for many years, and that the Storting also discussed when dealing with the police role message, and it is that unfortunately there is not a great deal of status and position, through career opportunities, remuneration, competence building in the police, to stand in this particular race. For example: In the computer industry, an incredible amount of competence and reward for being a programmer are not rewarded to the foot soldiers in the street, either in terms of pay or competence. That's why I think the sum of the budget situation and this leads to too little money at a crucial point that goes on the people's confidence and trust in the police, and that's the effort in the street. That doesn't mean that those who are there are doing a bad job, but when good people are too few, it becomes too little good work. It will not be bad work for those who do the job, but there will be too little good work together. That concern was left when the state budget for the current year was dealt with, so we proposed $15 million. kr in addition to the Oslo Police Department. I have to admit that it was a mistake on my part – it was too low. We didn't have enough information to understand what it was like, and we've got that knowledge later. I think that with the knowledge that we have when we're starting to do a lot of good work, no one can earn that the job out there among people in the street doesn't have high enough status. No one can earn that's what's going to be aging when you're going to take care of all the police business. No one can earn it. That is why it is reasonable for the Left to have the government's expectation that the government in the revised national budget will ensure that at least not cut money, in order to get this in place. So I would say that the government has been faced with an additional problem through the debate at the National Labour Party meeting on criminalising the purchase of sex services. To that I would say that the country's Minister of Justice has not taken any lightly positions in that regard. I'm not going to comment on anyone else, he's never fallen for the argument that this is an important measure to combat trafficking in human beings. It's not. So you can have different opinions about this. The challenge of the left to the government council is that the people in the street, the order service, have to get a boost, and they have to get real budgets that make there become more people. I think that, with all due respect for good work done by good people, requires more money for there to be room for more people and more work where people want it – an active police out there among people.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e2048	I really want to add some women's perspectives, as I was given the opportunity to come straight after the representative Dørum in this debate, who has been highly humanised in terms of participation. It's about freedom as a citizen of Oslo. Freedom not only from violence, but the freedom to choose the street you want when you're going home, the freedom to choose to go home when you want, and the freedom to go home alone if you want. Some of the ugly rape cases we've seen are part of a whole urban environment, and half of the city's population is affected by the horror that crawls up your back when you know that the number of such cases is escalating, and that there are more and more. Another great anxiety and a development in the crime in Oslo that I think is very scary is the lack of witnesses. What we see now, for example. in two cases, both in a serious rape case in the Palace Park, where one knows that there were witnesses, and in the Kadra case, where one knows that there were witnesses, is that more and less and less dare to witness. It's a very fundamental problem for the legal security of Oslo citizens that people don't dare to witness. We have to be able to reverse the trend in crime, so that the entire population of Oslo can regain the freedom to choose which street to go home in, and so that the entire population of Oslo can trust that at least someone dares to tell what they've seen, after they've seen it. Although they may not intervene, it is important that that legal order is actually restored. Then there is an offensive policy that is needed. There's a need for awareness that it's actually a challenge. I think it's an important awareness that the Minister of Justice has to take over, and it's the perception that the Oslo people are afraid that that development can actually get very negative consequences if we don't get to turn it around.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e2059	Although, according to the last speaker, there has been a humane debate, I think the debate has been good – if I may say so. I do not believe that gender should be decisive for either visions or ambitions on behalf of the Oslo Police in terms of the situation of the citizens of Oslo. I think we can do that. What I think has been good is that there has been involvement in the debate. Of course, I feel that there are shades in the perception you have here of what's happening on the outside. It is quite natural that when you sit in position, you defend what you have done. When you're in opposition, you want to point out the deficiencies that the position hasn't done enough. It is part of the political dynamics that we must expect in a debate like this. At the same time, I hope that this debate will help focus on the challenges that remain for Oslo. I expect that the Council of State is not finished with her job in Oslo – in no way, I hope. I also hope that this won't end up being a debate where we'll put Oslo on one side and the rest of the country on the other. I hope we can rather focus on the unsolved tasks in that quite country, and that Oslo and the rest of the country get their legitimate appropriations to do just that job. The best thing that could happen was that we didn't have this kind of debate – and especially after midnight. 16, so we could finish in the right time. When that doesn't happen, it tells me that the commitment is so great, and it's so important to take this debate in a good way, that we do it when we have to. I'm not going to go back in and run rhetoric about numbers. I hope and believe we have a common ambition for the police in Oslo, doing a great job within the limits they actually have. The challenge is that they can do an even better job if they fill all the vacant jobs. If we give them the necessary armstroke, they can take care of and do the job we all expect of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e2072	I am pleased with such a harmonious conclusion to such an important debate. I can almost underline all that Mr Ellingen has just said. I also hope that we can have a debate on the Oslo Police in the future that points to the opportunities offered by the Oslo Police. Increased resources are needed. That's why we've chosen to increase the amount of resources. But I want to stay a little bit because it also has to be justified based on the fact that we actually see results. I feel as politically active that it is much more stimulating to give funds to a system from which we see results. For Oslo's part, I believe there is every reason to give a lot of credit to both police officers and women as well as to the management of the Oslo police district, which in my opinion the last year has listened to political signals both from here and from elsewhere, but which also take very seriously the challenges the city has to face. It's just the good results you can refer to, which stimulates further action in the Oslo Police Department. Then future budgets and processes show how far we're going. What is done through the reoccurrence project is, of course, the foundation for the fact that profit crime has actually shown a downward trend in recent years. So it is important that we tell the citizens that in some areas crime is going in the right direction. We've seen it for other types of criminal acts as well. Then we also have other challenges, where we see that we have a growth, and where there is cause for concern, which obviously must mean that we are betting extra. What the government has now done to the gangs of the city is politically wild. There have been clear political signals. More police districts than Oslo are entering and cooperating — we have also provided funds — and it is seen to involve a reduction in crime in a very important area. I also want to bring forward all the hidden crime we face in the city, which we rarely get debated about, and which rarely comes up in the media. It's about violence in close relationships – at home with people. To what extent can we go into it? This is a major challenge, not only in Oslo, but also elsewhere in the country, where there is absolutely good reason to bet more. Then for human trafficking. I'm very glad that a few months ago, Oslo Police District has got a dedicated police group that can get a better dialogue with the girls. I think that the law that will come up against those who buy sex will clearly make such a police effort even more necessary. So this is bet, and I hope we'll see positive results of it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e2091	That is when the debate is on case No. End of 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2007-04-24.ana.ud1559e2102	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting ends? - The meeting is over.
